  Other Nonprofit Organizations Uniform Administrative Requirements" and with          
  OMB Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants are subject to inspection and            
  audits by NEH and other Federal officials.                                           
Records:                                                                               
  Documentation of expenditures and other fiscal records must be retained for          
  three years following the submission of the final expenditure report.                
Account Identification:                                                                
  59-0200-0-1-503.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $8,969,769*; FY 08 est $7,371,000; and FY 09 est $7,371,000. *Includes         
  additional funding provided by NEH Treasury matching grants and by We the            
  People. See 45.168 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-WE THE PEOPLE.                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  FY 07 from $17,000 to $450,000; $190,000 average.                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In FY 08, 206 applications were received; 45 awards were made.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  45 CFR 1100 and 1105. Guidelines are available online at                             
  http://www.neh.gov/grants/grants.html and upon request from the National             
  Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, DC 20506. Available from the               
  Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC              
  20402, is the Endowment's official publication, "Humanities" by subscription (6      
  issues annually, $24.00 domestic, $30.00 foreign).                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Division of Research Programs, Room 318, National Endowment for the

                                                                                       
  Humanities, Washington, DC 20506. Telephone: (202) 606-8200.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:

                                                                                       
  http://www.neh.gov.

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  45.149, Promotion of the Humanities_Division of Preservation and Access;

                                                                                       
  45.160, Promotion of the Humanities_Fellowships and Stipends.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  (1) A grant was awarded to a university for the preparation of a translation of      
  two plays by Miguel de Cervantes. (2) A grant was made to a university to            
  support a conference looking at the connections between the Atlantic and Indian      
  Ocean worlds in the early modern period. (3) A grant was made to a college to        
  support the creation of a critical text of a portion of Homer's Iliad, together with 
  detailed commentary and essays about the text. (4) A grant was made to a             
  university to support archaeological investigation of the creation, character, and   
  decline of the ancient Maya kingdom of El Zotz, near ancient Tikal, in present-      
  day Guatemala. (5) A grant was made to a university to support the preparation

  of an edition of the papers of Benjamin Franklin. (6) A grant was made to a          
  university for the preparation of a critical edition of the poetry of British        
  Romantic poet Percy Bysshe Shelley. (7) A grant was made to support research

  opportunities at an independent research center in San Marino, California. (8) A

                                                                                       
  grant was made to support research opportunities at an Americans overseas            
  research center in Munich, Germany.                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  For Collaborative Research, the principal criteria considered by evaluators are:     
  (1) Intellectual significance of the project, including its potential contribution to
  scholarship in the humanities; the likelihood that it will stimulate new research;   
  its relationship to larger themes in the humanities; and the significance of the     
  material on which the project is based. (2) Pertinence of the research questions     
  being posed, the appropriateness of research methods, translation approaches, or     
  conference design; the appropriateness of the technology employed in the             
  project; the feasibility of the work plan; in the case of translation projects, the  
  quality of samples, e.g., their content, accuracy, readability, and the clarity and  
  helpfulness of annotations; and the appropriateness of the field work to be          
  undertaken, the archival or source materials to be studied, and the research site.   
  (3) Qualifications, expertise, and levels of commitment of the project director      
  and key project staff or contributors. (4) Soundness of the dissemination and        
  access plans, including benefit to the audience identified in the proposal and the   
  strength of the case for employing print, microform, digital format, or a            
  combination of media; and in the case of archaeology projects, the likelihood        
  that the project will produce an interpretive study. All other considerations being  
  equal, preference will be given to projects that provide free, online access to      
  digital materials produced with grant funds. (5) Potential for success, including    
  the likelihood that the work proposed will be completed within the projected         
  time frame; where appropriate, the project's previous record of success; and the     
  reasonableness of the proposed budget in relation to anticipated results. For        
  Scholarly Editions, the principal criteria considered by evaluators are: (1) The     
  intellectual significance of the proposed work, including its potential              
  contribution to scholarship in the humanities; the likelihood that it will stimulate 
  new research; its relationship to larger themes or issues in the humanities; and     
  the significance of the material on which the project is based. (2) The              
  appropriateness of the research methods, critical apparatus, and editorial           
  policies; the appropriateness of selection criteria; the thoroughness and            
  feasibility of the work plan; the quality of the samples, e.g., their content and    


                                                                                  11-08
  accuracy; and the clarity and helpfulness of annotation. (3) The qualifications,
  expertise, and levels of commitment of the project director and key project staff
  or contributors. (4) The soundness of the dissemination and access plans,
  including benefit to the audience identified in the proposal; the strength of the
  case for producing print volumes, microform, electronic format, or a
  combination of media; and the appropriateness of the technology to be used. All
  other considerations being equal, preference will be given to projects that
  provide free, online access to digital materials produced with grant funds. (5)
  The potential for success, including the likelihood that the proposed project will
  be successfully completed within the projected time frame; when appropriate,
  the edition's previous record of success; and the reasonableness of the budget in
  relation to its likely results. For Fellowship Programs at Independent Research
  Institutions, the principal criteria considered by evaluators are: (1) How
  important to the advancement of the humanities is the fellowship program for
  which funding is requested? (2) Are fellows likely to pursue their research more
  successfully because of the research collections, facilities, services, and other
  resources provided by the applicant institution? In the case of centers with
  residential programs, does the application provide evidence that the fellows'
  projects benefit significantly from the location of the center and the intellectual
  exchange among the fellows? (3) How strong is the institution's
  previous record in offering fellowships? Have former fellows been productive?
  Have the scholarly contributions resulting from their FPIRI fellowships been of
  value to scholars and general audiences in the humanities? (4) Is the fellowship
  selection process, including the choosing of selection committee members,
  expert and objective? (5) Does the application make a persuasive case for the
  amount of NEH support requested for fellowships? (6) How effective is the
  publicity for the competition for fellowships? (7) How effective is the
  administration of the fellowship program? Is the institution's research
  misconduct policy adequate? (8) Are there ways in which the fellowship
  program could be improved? For Fellowships at Digital Humanities Centers, the
  principal criteria considered by evaluators are: (1) The intellectual significance
  of the project, including its value to scholars and general audiences in the
  humanities. (2) The quality or promise of quality of the visiting fellow's work in
  the digital humanities. (3) The appropriateness of the proposed collaboration
  between fellow and center, including the quality of resources provided by the
  center, the anticipated intellectual contribution of the fellow to the center, and
  the potential benefit to the fellow. (4) The feasibility of the proposed work plan,
  including the sustainability of the project beyond the grant period. (5) The
  accessibility and interoperability of the final product. All other considerations
  being equal, preference will be given to projects that provide free online access
  to digital materials produced with grant funds.
45.162 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-TEACHING
AND LEARNING RESOURCES AND CURRICULUM
DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES, NATIONAL
  FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  Humanities Initiatives at Presidentially Designated Institutions--Historically
  Black, High Hispanic Enrollment, and Tribal Colleges and Universities--
  strengthen humanities teaching and learning at these institutions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Humanities Initiatives at Presidentially Designated Institutions provide funds for
  faculty study programs, institutional planning, and the acquisition of library and
  advanced technology resources that can assist institutions in enhancing
  humanities opportunities for their students and their communities, typically
  through strengthening the capacity of faculty to engage student or community
  beneficiaries in substantive study of the humanities. Humanities Initiatives for
  Faculty awards are restricted to Historically Black, High Hispanic Enrollment,
  and Tribal Colleges and Universities, as designated by the White House offices
  charged with the implementation of Executive Orders 12876, 12900, 13021, and
  to faculty members at these institutions. Projects that deal solely with
  pedagogical theory or that are intended to improve writing, speaking, or thinking
  skills apart from a focus on specific humanities content are not normally
  supported.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Humanities Initiatives at Presidentially Designated Colleges and Universities
  offer Historically Black, High Hispanic Enrollment, and Tribal Colleges and
  Universities, as designated by the White House offices charged with the
  implementation of Executive Orders 12876, 12900, 13021.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments; sponsored organizations; public and private
                                                                                   813
