  nonprofit institutions/organizations; other public institutions/organizations;   
  Federally recognized Indian tribal governments; Native American organizations;   
  U.S. Territories; non-government-general; minority organizations; other          
  specialized groups; and quasi-public nonprofit institutions will benefit.        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for entities   
  of State and local government, OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational             
  institutions and OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations.             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  Informal inquiry with the headquarters office, followed by submission of a       
  preliminary draft is encouraged. Endowment staff should be sent preliminary      
  applications at least six weeks in advance of final application deadline for     
  eligibility review. The standard application forms as furnished by the           
  Endowment and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this           
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Applications to NEH must be submitted via Grants.gov. Guidelines are available   
  online (http://www.neh.gov)or upon request to the headquarters office. This      
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                  
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Applications are reviewed by panels of scholars, teachers, and educational       
  administrators at all academic levels and by other appropriate individuals.      
  Awards are made by the Chairman of the National Endowment for the                
  Humanities after advice of the National Council on the Humanities.               
Deadlines:                                                                         
  Materials and Curriculum Development Grants: October 1, 2008 for projects        
  beginning after April 1 of the following year. January 16, 2009 for Humanities   
  Initiatives for Faculty, for projects beginning after June 1, 2009.              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Approximately 4-6 months.                                                        
Appeals:                                                                           
  None, but applicant may reapply with a revised proposal.                         
Renewals:                                                                          
  Applications for renewal must compete against new applications. Applications     
  for renewal must demonstrate a record of success and the potential to serve new  
  audiences.                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  This program has no statutory formula. Source: Program Guidelines. Contact:      
  See Headquarters Office below.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Funds must be expended during the grant period. Funds are released as

                                                                                   
  required. Grants are available for projects for a maximum of 3 years.            
Reports:                                                                           
  Progress reports are required at least annually. Cash reports on project         
  expenditures are required quarterly. Final progress and expenditure reports are  
  due within 90 days after completion or termination of project support by NEH.    
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"   
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that 
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted 
  in Circular No. A-133. For nongovernmental recipients, audits are to be carried  
  out in accordance with the provisions set forth in OMB Circular No. A-110,       
  "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and     
  Other Nonprofit Organizations Uniform Administrative Requirements" and with      
  OMB Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants are subject to inspection and        
  audits by NEH and other Federal officials.                                       
Records:                                                                           
  Documentation of expenditures and other fiscal records must be retained for      
  three years following the submission of the final expenditure report.            
Account Identification:                                                            
  59-0200-0-1-503.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 07 $2,223,567*; FY 08 est $2,520,000; and FY 09 est $2,520,000. *Includes     
  additional funding provided by NEH Treasury matching grants and by We the        
  People. See 45.168 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-WE THE PEOPLE.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Humanities Initiatives at Presidentially Designated Colleges and Universities do 
  not exceed $75,000.                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  For FY 08, 140 applications were received and 23 grants were made.               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                   
  45 CFR 1100 and 1105. The publication entitled "National Endowment for the

                                                                                   
  Humanities Grant Programs, 2000-2001" is available upon request from the

                                                                                   
  National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, DC 20506. It is also

                                                                                   
  available online at http://www.neh.gov. Available from the Superintendent of

                                                                                   
  Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, is the

                                                                                   
  Endowment's official publication, "Humanities" by subscription (6 issues

                                                                                   


814                                                                          11-08

  annually, $24.00 domestic, $30.00 foreign).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Humanities Initiatives at Presidentially Designated Colleges and Universities,
  National Endowment for the Humanities, Room 302, Washington, DC 20506.
  Telephone: (202) 606-8463. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.neh.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  45.163, Promotion of the Humanities_Professional Development; 45.129,
  Promotion of the Humanities_Federal/State Partnership; 45.130, Promotion of
  the Humanities_Challenge Grants; 45.149, Promotion of the
  Humanities_Division of Preservation and Access; 45.160, Promotion of the
  Humanities_Fellowships and Stipends; 45.161, Promotion of the
  Humanities_Research; 45.164, Promotion of the Humanities_Public Programs.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) An Historically Black University received a month-long summer program of
  study of Homer, Dante, Marie de France, Christine de Pizan, and Shakespeare
  for six to eight faculty members from the institution and others nearby; (2) A
  Tribal College received an award to support a year-long series of workshops for
  its faculty that would explore seminal works in Native American literature,
  including Louise Erdrich's Love Medicine, N. Scott Momaday's House Made of
  Dawn, James Welch's The Indian Lawyer. (3) A College with a High Hispanic
  Enrollment received an award to conduct a year-long faculty development
  seminar series in the field of law and literature, including the study of such
  works as Sophocles' Antigone, Dickens' Great Expectations, Kafka's The Trial,
  and Shakespeare's Measure for Measure.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are read and evaluated on whether the intellectual quality of the
  project is excellent; whether the project is well designed; and whether the project
  will have significant results. See the program guidelines for detailed criteria. For
  Humanities Initiatives at Presidentially Designated Colleges and Universities,
  projects will be selected for funding on the basis of the quality of planned
  activities and the potential of these activities to strengthen the humanities
  capacity of the institution; the ability of the institution to carry out the proposed
  plan; the qualifications of project leaders and consultants; and the cogency of the
  plan to evaluate the outcomes of the project.
45.163 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-
PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES, NATIONAL
  FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  Seminars and Institutes promote better teaching and research in the humanities
  through faculty development. Landmarks of American History and Culture, part
  of the NEH We the People initiative, promote better pre-collegiate and
  community college teaching of American history and culture through intensive,
  rigorous faculty and staff development workshops at historical sites, colonial
  settlements, battlefields, artists' and writers' homes--while enabling the
  participants to gain experience in conveying the importance of historical places
  and enhancing their teaching materials. The Picturing America School
  Collaboration Projects grant opportunity us designed to help teachers and
  librarians whose schools display images of great works of art included in
  Picturing America (and that help to tell America's story) to form connections
  with courses in the core curriculum.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants support Summer Seminars and Institutes, Landmarks of American
  History and Culture Workshops, Picturing America School Collaboration
  Projects. Awards support direct costs, including salaries, participant stipends,
  selection costs, travel, and supplies. Projects should engage participants in
  deepening the knowledge of the subjects they teach and strengthen their capacity
  to engage students in substantive study of the humanities. Projects that deal
  solely with pedagogical theory or that are intended to improve writing, speaking,
  or thinking skills apart from a focus on specific humanities content are not
  normally supported.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Distinguished scholar/teachers in the humanities may apply through a
  sponsoring institution to direct a seminar or institute for college teachers or
  school teachers. For Landmarks in American History and Culture, the following
  may apply: State and local governments; sponsored organizations; public and
  private nonprofit institutions/organizations; other public
  institutions/organizations; Federally recognized Indian tribal governments;
