  Native American organizations; U.S. Territories; non-government-general;         
  minority organizations; other specialized groups; and quasi-public nonprofit     
  institutions. For Picturing America School Collaboration Project, the following  
  may apply: Sponsored organizations; public and private nonprofit                 
  institutions/organizations; other public institutions/organizations; non-        
  government-general; minority organizations; other specialized groups; and        
  quasi-public nonprofit institutions.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Primarily K-12 or college teachers, depending on the particular project--as well 
  as their colleagues and students.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  For educational institutions, costs will be determined in accordance with OMB    
  Circular No. A-21 and Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations. This       
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  Informal inquiry is encouraged for prospective directors. The standard           
  application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB         
  Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is excluded       
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                  
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Applications to NEH must be submitted via Grants.gov. Proposal instructions      
  are available on line (http://www.neh.gov) or from the headquarters office. This 
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                  
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Applications are reviewed by subject area specialists, panels of scholars, and   
  other appropriate individuals. Awards are made by the Chairman of the National   
  Endowment for the Humanities after advice from the National Council on the       
  Humanities.                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                         
  March 2, 2009, to direct a seminar or institute during the summer of the         
  following year. March 2, 2009, to participate in a seminar or institute held     
  during the summer of the same year. March 16, 2009, to direct a Landmarks of     
  American History Workshop project during the summer of the following year;       
  March 16, to participate in a Landmarks of American History and Culture          
  workshop held during the summer of the same year. October 1, 2008, for           
  Picturing America School Collaboration projects beginning after April 1, 2009.   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Approximately four to five months; six weeks for participants in Seminars and    
  Institutes, Landmarks of American History and Culture Workshops, and             
  Picturing America School Collaboration Projects.                                 
Appeals:                                                                           
  None, but director/applicant may request a critique of the proposal and reapply. 
Renewals:                                                                          
  Applications for renewal must demonstrate a record of success and the potential  
  to serve new audiences. These applications compete against new applications.     
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no statutory formula. Source: Program Guidelines. Contact:      
  See Headquarters Office below.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Length and Time Phasing of Assistance: Funds must be expended during the         
  grant period. Funds are released as required.                                    
Reports:                                                                           
  Cash reports are due quarterly. A final narrative report and a final expenditures
  report are required within 90 days after completion or termination of the grant  
  period. In addition, reports are required from the scholars participating in the 
  seminar assessing the value of the seminar for their professional development.   
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"   
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that 
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted 
  in Circular No. A-133. For nongovernmental recipients, audits are to be carried  
  out in accordance with the provisions set forth in OMB Circular No. A-110,       
  "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and     
  Other Nonprofit Organizations Uniform Administrative Requirements" and with      
  OMB Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants are subject to inspection and        
  audits by NEH and other Federal officials.                                       
Records:                                                                           
  Documentation of expenditures and other fiscal records must be retained for      
  three years following the submission of the final expenditure report.            
Account Identification:                                                            
  59-0200-0-1-503.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 07 $14,359,170*; and FY 08 est $10,081,000; and FY 09 est $10,081,000.        
  *Includes additional funding provided by We the People. See 45.168               
  PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-WE THE PEOPLE.                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  None.                                                                            


                                                                              11-08
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 08, 221 applications were received and 79 awards are anticipated.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 1100 and 1105. Guidelines are available online at http://www.neh.gov
  or upon request from the National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington,
  DC 20506. Available from the Superintendent of Documents, Government
  Printing Office, Washington, DC 20402, is the Endowment's official
  publication, "Humanities" by subscription (6 issues annually, $24.00 domestic,
  $30.00 foreign).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Headquarters Office: Professional Development, Division of Education
  Programs, National Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, DC 20506.
  Telephone: (202) 606-8463. Use the same numbers for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.neh.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Poetry as a Form of Life, Life as a Form of Poetry (summer seminar for
  school teachers); (2) Narrative Theory: Rhetoric and Ethics in Fiction and
  Nonfiction (summer seminar for college teachers); (3) Houses of Mortals and
  Gods: Latin Literature in Context (summer institute for school teachers); (4)
  Bharata Darshan: The Past and the Present in the Study of India's History and
  Culture (summer institute for college teachers); (5) Two one-week school teacher
  workshops, held at Mount Vernon, for 100 school teachers, on George
  Washington and the genesis of the United States Constitution (Landmarks of
  American History and Culture); (6) Two one-week workshops for fifty
  community college faculty to focus on the region surrounding Concord,
  Massachusetts, as a center of Transcendentalism and social reform in the
  nineteenth century (Landmarks of American History and Culture); (7) A major
  metropolitan library received an award to conduct two-day Picturing America
  conferences on the theme "Art and the American Revolution" for two groups of
  forty K-6 educators each; the library's educational staff and visiting scholars will
  collaborate in using selections from Picturing America and poems, biographies,
  and other literature for young readers as a stimulus to discuss themes in
  American history and American life, as well as to develop art appreciation skills
  (Picturing America School Collaboration Projects).
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  In evaluating proposals, the following criteria apply: (1) Intellectual quality and
  significance; (2) Impact; (3) Feasibility. Applicants to Workshops, Seminars and
  Institutes selected to receive stipends are those who can derive the greatest
  benefit from participation in and who can make the greatest contribution to the
  program.
45.164 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-PUBLIC
PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES, NATIONAL
  FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide opportunities for the American public to explore human history and
  culture through humanities programs in museums, historical organizations,
  libraries, community centers, and other gathering places, as well as on public
  television and radio and other digital media.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are made to support planning, scripting, development, production, and
  implementation costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local governments; sponsored organizations; public and private
  nonprofit institutions/organizations; other public institutions/organizations;
  Federally recognized Indian tribal governments; Native American organizations;
  U.S. Territories; non-government-general, minority organizations and other
  specialized groups; quasi-public nonprofit institutions may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments; sponsored organizations; public and private
  nonprofit institutions/organizations; other public institutions/organizations;
  Federally recognized Indian tribal governments; Native American organizations;
  U.S. Territories; non-government-general, minority organizations and other
  specialized groups; quasi-public nonprofit institutions will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and
                                                                                    815
