  OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations apply.                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Applicants are strongly encouraged, but not required, to submit to the program a  
  preliminary draft for response by program staff at least four weeks in advance of 
  the application deadline. The standard application forms as furnished by the      
  Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. 102 must be used for this         
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                 
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Applications to NEH must be submitted via Grants.gov. Application forms and       
  guidelines are available online (http://www.neh.gov/grants/grants.html) and       
  upon request from the headquarters office. This program is subject to the         
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications are reviewed by subject area specialists, panels of scholars, and    
  other appropriate individuals. Awards are made by the Chairman of the National    
  Endowment for the Humanities after advice from the National Council on the        
  Humanities.                                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                          
  August 27, 2008 and January 21, 2009 for planning and implementation for          
  Interpreting America's Historic Places, America's Historical and Cultural         
  Organizations, and America's Media Makers.                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 3 to 6 months.

Appeals:

  None, but applicant may reapply.                                                  
Renewals:                                                                           
  Renewals may be granted and are processed as new applications.

                                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. Source:

                                                                                    
  Program Guidelines. Contact: See Headquarters Office below.                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Varies, but usually 6 months to 2 years. Funds must be obligated during the

                                                                                    
  grant period.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                            
  Progress reports are required at least annually but no more frequently than

                                                                                    
  quarterly. Cash reports are required quarterly. Final progress and expenditure

                                                                                    
  reports are due within 90 days after completion or termination of the project.    
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133. For nongovernmental recipients, audits are to be carried   
  out in accordance with the provisions set forth in OMB Circular No. A-110,        
  "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and      
  Other Nonprofit Organizations Uniform Administrative Requirements" and with       
  OMB Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants are subject to inspection and         
  audits by NEH and other Federal officials.                                        
Records:                                                                            
  Documentation of expenditures and other fiscal records must be retained for 3     
  years following the submission of the final expenditure report.                   
Account Identification:                                                             
  59-0200-0-1-503.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $13,847,063*; FY 08 est $12,709,000; and FY 09 est

                                                                                    
  $12,709,000. * Includes additional funding provided by NEH Treasury matching

                                                                                    
  grants and by We the People. See 45.168 PROMOTION OF THE

                                                                                    
  HUMANITIES-WE THE PEOPLE.

                                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                    
  FY 06 from $10,000 to $800,000; $122,000.

                                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  fiscal year 06,672 applications and 225 awards were made.                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  45 CFR 1100 and 1105. Guidelines are available online at                          
  http://www.neh.gov/grants/grants.html or by request from the National             
  Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, DC 20506. Available from the            
  Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC           
  20402, is the Endowment's official publication, "Humanities" by subscription (6   
  issues annually, $24.00 domestic, $30.00 foreign).                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Division of Public Programs, National Endowment for the Humanities, Room          
  426, Washington, DC 20506. Telephone: (202) 606-8269 Use the same number          
  for FTS.                                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.neh.gov.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
                                                                                    


816                                                                           11-08

  45.129, Promotion of the Humanities_Federal/State Partnership; 45.168,
  Promotion of the Humanities_We the People.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) A nonprofit organization received a grant for a national film viewing and
  discussion program in libraries on the history and interpretation of jazz. (2) A
  public television station received a grant for a four-hour television documentary
  exploring the life and times of Andrew Jackson. (3) A museum received a grant
  for an exhibition and guided tours at the cottage that Abraham Lincoln used as a
  seasonal retreat from 1862 to 1864. (4) A community college received a grant
  for a website, conference, guided tours, and lecture series exploring the Civil
  War in the interior Mid-Atlantic region.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  A successful application will demonstrate national significance or impact,
  outreach to groups of Americans not often engaged in public humanities
  projects, collaboration among cultural institutions and organizations as well as
  other similar or different groups, and use of a broad spectrum of the most
  effective formats, technologies, and venues for lifelong learning in the
  humanities. Although every proposal will not be expected to meet all of the
  criteria outlined above, the Division will give priority to applications that further
  these objectives. As part of the We the People initiative, the division currently
  has two special initiatives: Family and Youth Programs in American History and
  America's Historic Places. See program guidelines for details.
45.168 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-WE THE
PEOPLE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  AUTHORIZATION: To support scholarly, educational, preservation, and public
  projects that explore significant events and themes in our nation's history and
  culture and that advance knowledge of the principles that define America.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  For We the People Bookshelf: Libraries launch community programs based on
  readings on important themes such as courage and freedom. For We the People
  Picturing America: Libraries are required to encourage the use of the posters by
  teachers in the classroom, keep the posters on continual exhibit in classrooms or
  public locations in the school. For Landmarks of American History and Culture:
  Workshops for School Teachers and Workshops for Community College Faculty
  and for We the People Challenge Grants in United States History, Institutions
  and Culture, consult the guidelines of the NEH Division of Education Programs
  and Office of Challenge Grants respectively.
Applicant Eligibility:
  As part of its We the People initiative, NEH is collaborating with the American
  Library Association to distribute the We the People Bookshelf, a program to
  encourage young people to read and understand great literature while exploring
  themes in American history. Applications are accepted from all public libraries,
  including systems and branches, and school libraries (K-12), including public,
  private, parochial, or charter schools, in the United States and its territories. For
  Landmarks of American History and Culture: Workshops for School Teachers
  and Workshops for Community College Faculty and for We the People
  Challenge Grants in United States History, Institutions and Culture, consult the
  guidelines of the NEH Division of Education Programs and Office of Challenge
  Grants respectively. NEH is collaborating with the American Library
  Association to present a new program called We the People Picturing America.
  This program introduces young people to some of America's art treasures and is
  designed to promote the teaching, study, and understanding of American history
  and culture in K-12 schools.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  For We the People Picturing America, applications will be accepted from all K-
  12 public, private, parochial, and charter schools and home school consortia in
  the United States and its territories.. School and public libraries are invited to
  apply to receive the We the People Bookshelf, which consists of fifteen
  thematically related books and supplemental materials to help with publicity and
  the organization of public programs. For Landmarks of American History:
  Workshops for School Teachers Workshops and Community College Faculty
  and for We the People Challenge Grants in United States History, Institutions
  and Culture, consult the guidelines of the NEH Division of Education Programs
  and Office of Challenge Grants respectively.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Prior to submitting a proposal, applicants are encouraged to contact program
  officers who can offer advice about preparing the proposal, and review draft
  proposals. These comments are not part of the formal review process and have
