  no bearing on the final outcome of the proposal, but applicants in other         
  programs have found them helpful in strengthening their applications. Program    
  staff recommend that draft proposals be submitted six weeks before the deadline. 
  Time restraints may prevent staff from reviewing draft proposals submitted after 
  that date. Draft proposals may be submitted by e-mail attachment to:             
  odh@neh.gov This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.             
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Applications to NEH must be submitted via Grants.gov. We the People              
  Bookshelf and We the People Picturing America: printed application materials     
  are available by calling (202)606-8446, sending an e-mail to info@neh.gov, or    
  writing to NEH, Office of Public Affairs, 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.,        
  Washington, DC 20506. For Landmarks of American History and Culture:             
  Workshops for School Teachers and Workshops for Community College                
  Faculty, program guidelines are available through the NEH Division of            
  Education Programs; and for We the People Challenge Grants in United States      
  History, Institutions and Culture, the NEH Office of Challenge Grants.           
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  We The People Bookshelf and We the People Picturing America: Each                
  application is assessed by staff at NEH in collaboration with the staff of the   
  American Library Association. Evaluators may take geographical and               
  demographic distribution into consideration when selecting participating         
  libraries. The Chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities makes       
  the final decision.                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                         
  October 16 and April 2 for Digital Humanities Start-Up Grant applications;       
  April 9 for Institutes for Advanced Topics in the Digital Humanities             
  applications; and July 15 for NEH/DOE Humanities High Performance                
  Computing Program applications. E-Mail the Office of Digital Humanities for      
  specific information.                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Approximately four - seven months.                                               
Appeals:                                                                           
  We The People Bookshelf and We the People Picturing America: None. For           
  other We the People grants, applicant may request written reasons for rejection  
  and reapply with revised proposal to a subsequent application deadline.          
Renewals:                                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  Contact NEH Office of Challenge Grants for information on matching               
  requirements for We the People Challenge Grants in United States History,        
  Institutions and Culture.                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Full-time or part-time activities for periods ranging from eighteen to thirty-six
  months.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                           
  We The People Bookshelf and We the People Picturing America: Not applicable.     
  For Landmarks of American History and Culture: Workshops for School              
  Teachers and Workshops for Community College Faculty and for We the People       
  Challenge Grants in United States History, Institutions and Culture, consult the 
  guidelines of the NEH Division of Education Programs and Office of Challenge     
  Grants respectively.

Audits:

  We The People Bookshelf and We the People Picturing America: Not applicable.

                                                                                   
  For Landmarks of American History and Culture: Workshops for School              
  Teachers and Workshops for Community College Faculty and for We the People       
  Challenge Grants in United States History, Institutions and Culture, consult the 
  guidelines of the NEH Division of Education Programs and Office of Challenge     
  Grants respectively.                                                             
Records:                                                                           
  We The People Bookshelf and We the People Picturing America: Not applicable.     
  For Landmarks of American History and Culture: Workshops for School              
  Teachers and Workshops for Community College Faculty and for We the People       
  Challenge Grants in United States History, Institutions and Culture, consult the 
  guidelines of the NEH Division of Education Programs and Office of Challenge     
  Grants respectively.                                                             
Account Identification:                                                            
  59-0200-0-1-503.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 Not separately identifiable.; FY 08 est $1,969,000; and FY 09     
  est $2,000,000.                                                                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  We the People Bookshelf winners receive fifteen books and promotional            
  materials, including bookplates, bookmarks, and posters. For Landmarks of        
  American History and Culture: Workshops for School Teachers and Workshops        
  for Community College Faculty and for We the People Challenge Grants in          
  United States History, Institutions and Culture, consult the guidelines of the   
  NEH Division of Education Programs and Office of Challenge Grants                
  respectively.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  For We The People Bookshelf and We the People Picturing America, contact the     


                                                                              11-08
  Division of Public Programs. For Landmarks of American History and Culture:
  Workshops for School Teachers and Workshops for Community College Faculty
  and for We the People Challenge Grants in United States History, Institutions
  and Culture, contact the Division of Education Programs and the Office of
  Challenge Grants respectively.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 1100 and 1105. We the People Bookshelf and We the People Picturing
  America: application materials are available by calling (202)606-8446, sending
  an E-mail to info@neh.gov, or writing to NEH, Office of Public Affairs, 1100
  Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20506. Available from the
  Superintendent of Documents, U.S. Government Printing Office, Washington,
  DC 20402, is the Endowment's official publication, "Humanities" by
  subscription (6 issues annually, $24.00 domestic, $33.60 foreign).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Public Information, National Endowment for the Humanities, Room
  402, Washington, DC 20506. Telephone: (202) 606-8400. Office of Challenge
  Grants, National Endowment for the Humanities, Room 420, Washington, DC
  20506. (202) 606-8309. Division of Education Programs, National Endowment
  for the Humanities, Room 302, Washington, DC 20506. (202)606-8463.
  Questions about the We the People Bookshelf can be answered by the American
  Library Association staff at (1 800)545-2433, ext. 5045 and
  publicprograms@ala.org or by NEH staff at (202) 606-8589 and info@neh.gov.
  Hearing-impaired applicants can contact NEH via TDD at (1 866) 372-2930.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.neh.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  45.129, Promotion of the Humanities_Federal/State Partnership; 45.130,
  Promotion of the Humanities_Challenge Grants; 45.149, Promotion of the
  Humanities_Division of Preservation and Access; 45.162, Promotion of the
  Humanities_Teaching and Learning Resources and Curriculum Development;
  45.164, Promotion of the Humanities_Public Programs.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  For Landmarks of American History and Culture: Workshops for School
  Teachers and Workshops for Community College Faculty and for We the People
  Challenge Grants in United States History, Institutions and Culture, consult the
  guidelines of the NEH Division of Education Programs and Office of Challenge
  Grants respectively.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  We The People Bookshelf applications are evaluated according to the following
  criteria: Are the proposed programs well conceived, and do they have broad
  community appeal? Do the proposed programs explore the theme of courage?
  Will the proposed programs engage young readers? Does the library provide a
  long-term plan for promoting ongoing interest in the Bookshelf? For Landmarks
  of American History and Culture: Workshops for School Teachers and
  Workshops for Community College Faculty and for We the People Challenge
  Grants in United States History, Institutions and Culture, consult the guidelines
  of the NEH Division of Education Programs and Office of Challenge Grants
  respectively.
45.169 PROMOTION OF THE HUMANITIES-OFFICE OF
DIGITAL HUMANITIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,
  Public Law 89-209, 20 U.S.C. 951 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support projects that utilize or study the impact of digital technology,
  including those that deploy digital technologies and methods to enhance our
  understanding of a topic or issue; those that study the impact of digital
  technology on the humanities--exploring the ways in which it changes how we
  read, write, think, and learn; and those that digitize important materials thereby
  increasing the public's ability to search and access humanities information.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Digital Humanities Start-Up Grants support the planning or initial stages of
  digital humanities initiatives in all areas of the humanities, including research
  that brings new digital approaches to the study of the humanities or that
  examines the implications for humanities scholarship on the use of emerging
  technologies; new digital modes of publication facilitating the dissemination of
  humanities scholarship in advanced academic as well as informal or formal
  educational settings at all academic levels; exploration of digital methods or
  approaches to preserve, archive, and make accessible traditional (i.e., analogue)
  and "new media" resources in the humanities; planning new digital tools for
  preserving, making accessible and analyzing humanities data; and programs
  addressing the innovative use of emerging digital technologies in formal and
                                                                                       817
