  informal educational settings, including public forums such as museums,           
  libraries, historic sites, and broadcast media, and K-12 schools and post-        
  secondary institutions. Digital Humanities Start-Up Grants support full-time or   
  part-time activities for periods up to eighteen months. Support is available for  
  various combinations of scholars, consultants, and research assistants; project-  
  related travel; and technical support and services. Up to 20% of the total grant  
  may also be used for the acquisition of computing hardware and software. All      
  grantees are expected to communicate the results of their work to appropriate     
  scholarly and public audiences. In order to facilitate dissemination and the      
  maximum usage of the projects that are ultimately developed through the Digital   
  Humanities Start-Up Grants, applicants are strongly encouraged to base their      
  projects on open source and fully accessible software.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  U.S. nonprofit organizations or institutions; state and local governmental        
  agencies and Native American tribal organizations; and U.S. citizens or foreign   
  nationals who have been living in the United States or its jurisdictions for at   
  least the three years immediately prior to the time of application.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  U.S. nonprofit organizations or institutions; state and local governmental        
  agencies and Native American tribal organizations; and U.S. citizens or foreign   
  nationals who have been living in the United States or its jurisdictions for at   
  least the three years immediately prior to the time of application.               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State       
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and     
  OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations apply.                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Prior to submitting a proposal, applicants are encouraged to contact program      
  officers who can offer advice about preparing the proposal, and review draft      
  proposals. These comments are not part of the formal review process and have      
  no bearing on the final outcome of the proposal, but applicants in other          
  programs have found them helpful in strengthening their applications. Program     
  staff recommend that draft proposals be submitted six weeks before the deadline.  
                                                                                    
   Time restraints may prevent staff from reviewing draft proposals submitted after

                                                                                    
  that date. Draft proposals may be submitted by E-mail attachment

                                                                                    
  (DHI@neh.gov), Fax: (202) 606-8216, or overnight mail (Digital Humanities

                                                                                    
  Start-Up Grants, c/o OIRM, Room 203, 1100 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W.

                                                                                    
  Washington, DC 20506. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.

                                                                                    
  12372.

                                                                                    
Application Procedure:

                                                                                    
  Applications for this program must be submitted via Grants.Gov. Before using

                                                                                    
  Grants.gov for the first time, each organization must register with the Web site

                                                                                    
  to create an institutional profile.

                                                                                    
Award Procedure:

                                                                                    
  Knowledgeable persons outside NEH will read each application and advise the

                                                                                    
  agency about its merits. The Endowment's staff comments on matters of fact or

                                                                                    
  on significant issues that otherwise would be missing from these reviews, then

                                                                                    
  makes recommendations to the National Council on the Humanities. The

                                                                                    
  National Council meets at various times during the year to advise the NEH

                                                                                    
  chairman on grants. The chairman takes into account the advice provided by the

                                                                                    
  review process and, by law, makes all funding decisions.

                                                                                    
Deadlines:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Applicants will be notified by mail within five months after the submission of    
  the application.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                            
  None, but applicant may reapply.                                                  
Renewals:

  Renewal grants are processed and awarded in competition with and in the same      
  manner as new applications.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. Source:           
  Program Guidelines. Contact: See Headquarters Office below.                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Digital Humanities Start-Up Grants support full-time or part-time activities for  
  periods up to eighteen months.                                                    
Reports:                                                                            
  Final performance reports will be required. A Federal Cash Transactions Report    
  will be due within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter. A final Financial 
  Status Report will be due within 90 days after the completion date of the award   
  period.                                                                           
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
                                                                                    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                    
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                    
  in Circular No. A-133. For nongovernmental recipients, audits are to be carried



818                                                                           11-08

  out in accordance with the provisions set forth in OMB Circular No. A-110,
  "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and
  Other Nonprofit Organizations Uniform Administrative Requirements" and with
  OMB Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants are subject to inspection and
  audits by NEH and other Federal officials.
Records:
  Documentation of expenditures and other fiscal records must be retained for 3
  years following the submission of the final expenditure report.
Account Identification:
  59-0200-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  Not separately identifiable.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Digital Humanities Start-Up Grants can comprise up to $30,000 in outright
  funds. The use of federal matching funds is encouraged.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  New program; not applicable.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 1100 and 1105. Guidelines are available online at
  http://www.neh.gov/grants/grants.html or by request from the National
  Endowment for the Humanities, Washington, DC 20506. Available from the
  Superintendent of Documents, Government Printing Office, Washington, DC
  20402, is the Endowment's official publication, "Humanities" by subscription (6
  issues annually, $24.00 domestic, $30.00 foreign).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Public Information, National Endowment for the Humanities, Room
  402, Washington, DC 20506. Telephone: (202) 606-8400.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.neh.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  45.149, Promotion of the Humanities_Division of Preservation and Access.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Evaluators apply the following criteria: (1) intellectual significance of the long-
  term project, including its potential to enhance research, teaching, and learning
  in the humanities; the likelihood that it will stimulate new research or
  approaches to the humanities or use new digital technologies to communicate
  humanities scholarship to broad audiences; its relationship to larger themes in
  the humanities; and the significance of the material on which the project is
  based; (2) quality of the specific start-up activities that will be funded through
  the grant as an initial step leading to the fulfillment of the long-term project
  goals; the appropriateness of the proposed methods; the appropriateness of the
  technology employed in the project; the feasibility of the work plan; (3)
  qualifications, expertise, and levels of commitment of the project director and
  key project staff or contributors; (4) promise of quality, usefulness to the
  targeted audience, and/or impact on scholarship of the long-term project;
  soundness of the dissemination plans, including benefit to the audience
  identified in the proposal and the strength of the case for employing print,
  microform, digital format, or a combination of media; (5) quality of the
  assessment and evaluation of the start-up activities, and the potential
  contribution of this evaluation to the realization of the long-term goals; and (6)
  potential for success, including the likelihood that the work proposed will be
  completed within the projected time frame; where appropriate, the project's
  previous record of success; and the reasonableness of the proposed budget in
  relation to anticipated results.
45.201 ARTS AND ARTIFACTS INDEMNITY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL COUNCIL ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES, NATIONAL
  FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Foundation on the Arts and the Humanities Act of 1965, as amended,
  Public Laws 89-209, and 94-158, 20 U.S.C. 971 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide for indemnification against loss or damage for eligible art works,
  artifacts, and objects (1) when borrowed from abroad for exhibition in the U.S.;
  (2) when borrowed from the U.S. for exhibition abroad, preferably when there is
  an exchange exhibition from a foreign country; and (3) when borrowed from the
  U.S. for exhibition in the U.S. as part of exhibitions from abroad which include
  foreign-owned objects.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Insurance.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Certificates of Indemnity will be issued for the following items insuring them
  against loss or damage: (1) Works of art, including tapestries, paintings,
  sculpture, folk art, graphics, and craft arts; (2) manuscripts, rare documents,
