  books, and other printed or published materials; (3) other artifacts or objects;    
  and (4) photographs, motion pictures, or audio and video tape. Items must be of     
  educational, cultural, historical or scientific value; and their exhibition must be 
  certified by the Department of State to be in the national interest. Restrictions:  
  No indemnity agreement for a single exhibition shall exceed $1.2 billion.

  Deductible amounts are on a sliding scale based on the value of certificate, as     
  follows: $15,000 deductible for exhibitions of up to $2 million in value; $25,000

  for valuation of $2 million to $10 million; $50,000 for valuation of $10 million    
  to $125 million; $100,000 for valuation of $125 million to $200 million;            
  $200,000 for valuation of $200 million to $300 million; $300,000 for valuation      
  of $300 million to $400 million; $400,000 for valuation of $400 million to $500     
  million; and $500,000 for valuation above $500 million. The total amount of         
  indemnities that can be outstanding at any one time is $10 billion.                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Federal, State, and local government entities, and nonprofit agencies and           
  institutions may apply.                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Federal, State, and local government entities, and nonprofit agencies and           
  institutions will benefit. Audiences of indemnified exhibitions will also benefit.  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Assistance is available from the Indemnity Administrator, National Endowment        
  for the Arts, Washington, DC 20506-0001. This program is excluded from              
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102; it is also excluded from coverage            
  under E.O. 12372.                                                                   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicants should obtain guidelines and application instructions from the Arts      
  Endowment's Web site at www.arts.gov. This program is excluded from                 
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities makes final decisions on all     
  awards based on recommendations from consulting panels of professionals in          
  the field.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  April 1 and October 1 of each year.                                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Dependent on meetings of the Federal Council on the Arts and the Humanities;        
  approximately three months.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Requests for extensions and renewals must compete against new applications.         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Coverage does not include the first $15,000 to $500,000 based on the deductible     
  formula for the value of an exhibition. The applicant must assume the deductible    
  for the exhibition.                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The time of assistance varies.                                                      
Reports:                                                                              
  Reports of loss or damage at termination of exhibit.                                
Audits:                                                                               
  Final audits may be made at the discretion of the Federal Council on the Arts       
  and the Humanities for up to three years after the termination of the indemnity     
  time period.                                                                        
Records:                                                                              
  Applicants are responsible for complete packing, shipping, security and             
  condition reports on all indemnified items.                                         
Account Identification:                                                               
  59-0100-0-1-503.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Claim payments) FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est $0.                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  None.                                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  Thirty-nine certificates of indemnity were issued in fiscal year 2007 for 39

                                                                                      
  exhibitions. It is estimated that 45 certificates of indemnity will be issued in

                                                                                      
  fiscal year 2008 for 45 exhibitions. It is anticipated that 50 certificates of

                                                                                      
  indemnity will be issued in fiscal year 2009 for 50 exhibitions.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                      
  Regulations and guidelines are available on the Arts Endowment's Web site at

                                                                                      
  www.arts.gov.

                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                      
  None.

Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Indemnity Administrator, National Endowment for the Arts, Washington, DC            
  20506-0001. Contact: Alice M. Whelihan. Telephone: (202) 682-5574.                  
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.arts.gov.                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               


                                                                                 11-08
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Current indemnified exhibitions are listed on the Web site, www.arts.gov.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Contact the Indemnity Administrator.
45.301 MUSEUMS FOR AMERICA
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF MUSEUM SERVICES, INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND
  LIBRARY SERVICES, NATIONAL FOUNDATION OF THE ARTS, AND
  THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Museum and Library Services Act, codified at 20 U.S.C. Section 9101 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support projects and activities that strengthen museums as active resources
  for lifelong learning and as important institutions in the establishment of livable
  communities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds can be used for ongoing museum programs, exhibitions, or activities,
  research, institutional planning, collections management, purchase of equipment
  or services, or other activities that support the efforts of museums to upgrade and
  integrate new technologies into their overall institutional effectiveness.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All types of museums, large and small, are eligible for funding. Eligible
  museums include aquariums, arboretums and botanical gardens, art museums,
  general museums, historic houses and sites, history museums, nature centers,
  natural history and anthropology museums, planetariums, science and
  technology centers, specialized museums, youth museums, and zoological parks.
  Federally operated and for-profit museums may not apply for funds. An eligible
  applicant must be: (1) either a unit of state or local government or a private
  nonprofit organization that has tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue
  Code; (2) located in one of the 50 states of the United States, the District of
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the
  Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the
  Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, or the
  Republic of Palau; and (3) a museum that, using a professional staff, (i) is
  organized on a permanent basis for essentially educational or aesthetic purposes,
  (ii) owns or uses tangible objects, either animate or inanimate, (iii) cares for
  these objects, and (iv) exhibits these objects to the general public on a regular
  basis through facilities which it owns or operates. An organization uses a
  professional staff if it employs at least one professional staff member, or the full-
  time equivalent, whether paid or unpaid, primarily engaged in the acquisition,
  care, or exhibition to the public of objects owned or used by the institution. An
  organization "exhibits objects to the general public" if such exhibition is a
  primary purpose of the institution. Further, an organization that exhibits objects
  to the general public for at least 120 days a year shall be deemed to exhibit
  objects to the general public on a regular basis. An organization that exhibits
  objects by appointment may meet the requirement to exhibit objects to the
  general public on a regular basis if it can establish, in light of the facts under all
  the relevant circumstances, that this method of exhibition does not unreasonably
  restrict the accessibility of the institution's exhibits to the general public. Please
  note that an organization which does not have as a primary purpose the
  exhibition of objects to the general public, but which can demonstrate that it
  exhibits objects to the general public on a regular basis as a significant, separate,
  distinct, and continuing portion of its activities, and that it otherwise meets the
  museum eligibility requirements, may be determined to be eligible as a museum
  under these guidelines. A museum located within a parent organization that is a
  state or local government or multipurpose nonprofit entity, such as a
  municipality, university, historical society, foundation, or cultural center, may
  apply on its own behalf if the museum: (1) is able to independently fulfill all the
  eligibility requirements listed above, (2) functions as a discrete unit within the
  parent organization, (3) has its own fully segregated and itemized operating
  budget, and (4) has the authority to make the application on its own. When any
  of the last three conditions cannot be met, a museum may apply through its
  parent organization. Prospective applicants that cannot fulfill all of these
  requirements should contact IMLS to discuss their eligibility before applying.
  IMLS may require additional supporting documentation from the applicant to
  determine the museum's autonomy. Each eligible applicant within a single
  parent organization should clearly delineate its own programs and operations in
  the application narrative. A parent organization that controls multiple museums
  that are not autonomous but are otherwise eligible may submit only one
  application per grant program; the application may be submitted by the parent
  organization on behalf of one or more of the eligible museums.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public and private nonprofit museums.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and
                                                                                      819
