  other nonprofit organizations also applies.                                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency and required by           
  OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is               
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  As part of the president's E-government initiative, the federal government          
  developed Grants.gov, a single Web site for organizations to electronically find    
  and apply for competitive grant opportunities from all 26 of the federal grant-     
  making agencies. Beginning with the 2008 grant cycle, the Institute required all    
  applicants to apply online through Grants.gov. Applicants who are unable to use     
  Grants.gov should contact an IMLS program officer. The Institute no longer          
  accepts mailed paper applications. For more information on the process of           
  applying through Grants.gov, visit www.grants.gov/GetStarted.                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Proposals are reviewed by field and/or panel reviewers, staff, and the director.    
Deadlines:                                                                            
  November 1.                                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately nine months.

Appeals:

  Appeals may be made in writing to the director of the Institute of Museum and       
  Library Services.                                                                   
Renewals:

  The Institute of Museum and Library Services may extend particular grants at        
  the discretion of the director.                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Awards will not exceed $150,000 and must be matched one-to-one, but may             
  include in-kind contributions.                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Projects generally may be carried out for a period of up to 24 months from the      
  start date, but up to 36 months with strong justification.                          
Reports:                                                                              
  The Innstitute of Museum and Library Services requires interim and final            
  financial and performance reports from Museums for America grant recipients.        
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                     
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000    
  or more in federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit            
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a       
  year in federal awards are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year,    
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Grant and contract recipients will be required to maintain standard financial       
  statements and project records.                                                     
Account Identification:                                                               
  59-0300-0-1-503.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $17,400,000; FY 08 est $16,852,000; and FY 09 est                    
  $22,165,000.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Between $5,000 and $150,000.                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  For FY 07, the Museums for America grant program made 158 awards.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  See the IMLS Web site at http://www.imls.gov for the latest program data.

                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:

  Institute of Museum and Library Services, 1800 M Street, NW, Ninth Floor,           
  Washington, DC 20036-5802. Contacts: Sandra Narva, Telephone: (202) 653-            
  4634, E-mail: snarva@imls.gov. Stephen Shwartzman, Telephone: (202) 653-            
  4641, E-mail: sshwartzman@imls.gov.                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.imls.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  45.302, Museum Assessment Program; 45.303, Conservation Project Support;            
  45.304, Conservation Assessment Program; 45.307, 21st Century Museum                
  Professionals; 45.308, Native American/Native Hawaiian Museum Services              
  Program; 45.309, Museum Grants for African American History and Culture;            
  45.312, National Leadership Grants.                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Museums for America grants support projects and activities that strengthen          
  museums as active resources for lifelong learning and as key players in the         
  establishment of livable communities.                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  See program guidelines. Criteria include but are not limited to: evidence the       
  project or activities fit into and further the institution's strategic plan and     
  mission; extent to which the project is of sufficient scope to enhance or expand    
  institutional capacity in order to carry out strategic goals; evidence the project  


820                                                                             11-08

  proposes efficient, effective, and reasonable approaches to accomplish clear
  goals and objectives; evidence that the applicant will effectively complete the
  project activities through the deployment and management of resources,
  including money, facilities, equipment, and supplies; evidence of sound
  financial management, coupled with an appropriate and cost-efficient budget;
  evidence that the museum's audience(s) will be better served by the successful
  completion of this project, and evidence of the beneficial impact the project
  activities will have on the institution, its staff, and its audience(s).qualifications
  and how they will be able to accomplish the necessary tasks for the project,
  especially if they are current museum staff with other duties. If hiring new
  personnel, describe the position in detail and the qualifications of appropriate
  candidates. If the project includes digitization of museum collections, complete
  Specifications for Projects Involving Digitization on pages 5.8, 5.9. Review
  Criteria: Evidence that the project personnel are qualified to accomplish project
  goals and activities. Extent to which personnel can commit adequate time to
  manage and implement the project activities. Extent to which personnel
  demonstrate appropriate experience and expertise in the specific area the project
  addresses. If project includes digitization, evidence that appropriate procedures
  will be followed.
45.302 MUSEUM ASSESSMENT PROGRAM
   (MAP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF MUSEUM SERVICES, INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND
  LIBRARY SERVICES, NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND
  THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Museum and Library Services Act, codified at 20 U.S.C. Section 9101 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To help museums assess their strengths and weaknesses, and to plan for the
  future. The Museum Assessment Program is supported through a cooperative
  agreement between the Institute of Museum and Library Services and the
  American Association of Museums.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The program provides technical assistance for four kinds of assessments: (1)
  collections management, (2) governance, (3) institutional, and (4) public
  dimension. Collections management assessment supports a review of collections
  use, planning, and policies and procedures in the context of overall museum
  operations. Governance assessment supports an examination of the roles,
  responsibilities, and performance of governing authorities and advisory boards.
  The assessment improves the ability of the museum's governing authority to
  fulfill its stewardship responsibilities and contribute to the success of the
  organization. Institutional assessment supports an overview of the management
  and operations of the entire museum and helps the museum set priorities,
  prepare for strategic planning, and operate more efficiently, thereby improving
  its services to the community and increasing its base of support. Public
  dimension assessment supports an evaluation of the way in which the museum
  serves its community and audiences through exhibits, programs, and other
  services, and communicates with its audience through public relations, planning,
  and evaluation.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A museum located in the 50 states of the United States, the Commonwealth of
  Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Northern Mariana Islands,
  the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands, Guam, the Republic of the Marshall
  Islands, The Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau, or the
  District of Columbia may apply for a grant under this Act. A public or private
  nonprofit organization, such as a municipality, college, or university which is
  responsible for the operation of a museum, if necessary, may apply on behalf of
  the museum. A museum operated by a department or agency of the Federal
  government is not eligible to apply. Under the IMLS definition, a museum is a
  public or private nonprofit institution which is organized on a permanent basis
  for essentially educational or aesthetic purposes and which, using a professional
  staff: (1) Owns or uses tangible objects, whether animate or inanimate; (2) cares
  for these objects; and (3) exhibits them to the general public on a regular basis.
  A museum must have at least one staff member, paid or unpaid, who devotes his
  or her time primarily to the acquisition, care or exhibition of objects. The
  definition makes clear that the term "museum" includes aquariums and
  zoological parks; botanical gardens and arboretums; nature centers; art, history,
  (including historic buildings and sites), natural history, children's, general and
  specialized museums, science and technology centers and planetariums.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public and private nonprofit museums benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and
  other nonprofit organizations also applies.
