Preapplication Coordination:                                                     
  The standard application forms as furnished by the American Association of     
  Museums must be used for this program. This program is excluded from           
  coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                     
Application Procedure:                                                           
  To participate in the Museum Assessment Program, a museum must contact the     
  American Association of Museums (AAM), 1575 Eye Street, NW, Suite 400,         
  Washington, DC 20005. Telephone: (202) 289-9118. E-mail: map@aam-us.org.       
Award Procedure:                                                                 
  Proposals for participation are reviewed by the American Association of        
  Museums.                                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                       
  February 15.                                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                              
  Five months.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                         
  Appeals may be made in writing to the director of the American Association of  
  Museums.                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                        
  Not applicable.                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                               
  MAP is funded by the Institute of Museum and Library Services. MAP museums     
  share a percentage of the cost of the assessment.                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                
Reports:

                                                                                 
  Participants submit a final report to the American Association of Museums.

                                                                                 
Audits:

                                                                                 
  Audits not required for application.

Records:                                                                         
  Grant and contract recipients will be required to maintain standard financial  
  statements.                                                                    
Account Identification:                                                          
  59-0300-0-1-503.                                                               
Obligations:                                                                     
  (Grants) FY 07 $442,000; FY 08 $434,278; FY 09 est $471,000.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                       
  In FY 07, 111 museums participated in MAP. Grants were awarded in the          
  following areas: collections management (26), governance (11), public          
  dimension (27), and institutional assessment (47).                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                         
  In FY 07, 111 museums participated in the program.                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                         
  See the IMLS Web site at www.imls.gov for the latest program data.             
Regional or Local Office:                                                        
  None.                                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                             
  Institute of Museum and Library Services, 1800 M Street, N.W., Ninth Floor,    
  Washington, DC 20036-5802. Contact: Christopher J. Reich, Senior Program       
  Officer; Telephone: (202) 653-4685; E-mail: creich@imls.gov.                   
Web Site Address:                                                                
  www.imls.gov; www.aam-us.org.                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                
  45.301, Museums for America; 45.303, Conservation Project Support; 45.304,     
  Conservation Assessment Program; 45.312, National Leadership Grants; 15.904,   
  Historic Preservation Fund Grants-In-Aid; 15.914, National Register of Historic
  Places; 15.915, Technical Preservation Services.                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                     
  The Museum Assessment Program funds all types of museums, including            
  historic house museums, science and technology centers, botanical gardens, and 
  art museums.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                
  To participate in MAP, a museum must contact the American Association of       
  Museums, 1575 Eye Street, N.W., Suite 400, Washington, DC 20005.               
  Telephone: (202) 289-9118. E-mail: map@aam-us.org.                             
                                                                                 
45.303 CONSERVATION PROJECT SUPPORT                                              
                                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                  
  OFFICE OF MUSEUM SERVICES, INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND                             
  LIBRARY SERVICES, NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND                          
  THE HUMANITIES                                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                   
  Museum and Library Services Act, codified at 20 U.S.C. Section 9101 et seq.    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                      
  To help museums identify conservation needs and priorities and perform         
  activities to ensure the safekeeping of their collections.                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                             
  Project Grants; Direct Payments for Specified Use.                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                 
  Conservation Project Support grants help museums develop a logical,

                                                                                 
                                                                            11-08
  institution-wide approach to caring for their collections. Collections may be in
  one of four categories: (1) nonliving, (2) natural history, (3) living plants, or (4)
  living animals. Grants are available for four broad types of conservation
  activities: (1) surveys (general, detailed condition, or environmental), (2)
  training, (3) treatment, and (4) environmental improvements. An institution may
  submit one application each fiscal year. Applications must demonstrate that the
  primary goal of the project is conservation care and not collection management
  or maintenance.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All types of museums, large and small, are eligible for funding. Eligible
  museums include aquariums, arboretums and botanical gardens, art museums,
  general museums, historic houses and sites, history museums, nature centers,
  natural history and anthropology museums, planetariums, science and
  technology centers, specialized museums, youth museums, and zoological parks.
  Federally operated and for-profit museums may not apply for funds. An eligible
  applicant must be: (1) either a unit of state or local government or a private
  nonprofit organization that has tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue
  Code; (2) located in one of the 50 states of the United States, the District of
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the
  Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the
  Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, or the
  Republic of Palau; and (3) a museum that, using a professional staff, (i) is
  organized on a permanent basis for essentially educational or aesthetic purposes,
  (ii) owns or uses tangible objects, either animate or inanimate, (iii) cares for
  these objects, and (iv) exhibits these objects to the general public on a regular
  basis through facilities which it owns or operates. An organization uses a
  professional staff if it employs at least one professional staff member, or the
  fulltime equivalent, whether paid or unpaid, primarily engaged in the
  acquisition, care, or exhibition to the public of objects owned or used by the
  institution. An organization "exhibits objects to the general public" if such
  exhibition is a primary purpose of the institution. Further, an organization that
  exhibits objects to the general public for at least 120 days a year shall be deemed
  to exhibit objects to the general public on a regular basis. An organization that
  exhibits objects by appointment may meet the requirement to exhibit objects to
  the general public on a regular basis if it can establish, in light of the facts under
  all the relevant circumstances, that this method of exhibition does not
  unreasonably restrict the accessibility of the institution's exhibits to the general
  public. Please note that an organization which does not have as a primary
  purpose the exhibition of objects to the general public, but which can
  demonstrate that it exhibits objects to the general public on a regular basis as a
  significant, separate, distinct, and continuing portion of its activities, and that it
  otherwise meets the museum eligibility requirements, may be determined to be
  eligible as a museum under these guidelines. A museum located within a parent
  organization that is a state or local government or multipurpose nonprofit entity,
  such as a municipality, university, historical society, foundation, or a cultural
  center, may apply on its own behalf, if the museum: (1) is able to independently
  fulfill all the eligibility requirements listed above, (2) functions as a discrete unit
  within the parent organization, (3) has its own fully segregated and itemized
  operating budget, and (4) has the authority to make the application on its own.
  When any of the last three conditions cannot be met, a museum may apply
  through its parent organization. Prospective applicants that cannot fulfill all of
  these requirements should contact IMLS to discuss their eligibility before
  applying. The IMLS may require additional supporting documentation from the
  applicant to determine the museum's autonomy. Each eligible applicant within a
  single parent organization should clearly delineate its own programs and
  operations in the application narrative. A parent organization that controls
  multiple museums that are not autonomous but are otherwise eligible may
  submit only one application per grant program; the application may be
  submitted by the parent organization on behalf of one or more of the eligible
  museums.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public and private nonprofit museums benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for state
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and
  other nonprofit organizations also applies.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  As part of the president's E-government initiative, the federal government
  developed Grants.gov, a single website for organizations to electronically find
  and apply for competitive grant opportunities from all 26 of the federal grant-
  making agencies. Beginning with the 2008 grant cycle, the Institute required all
  applicants to apply online through Grants.gov. Applicants who are unable to use
  Grants.gov should contact an IMLS program officer. The Institute no longer
  accepts mailed paper applications. For more information on the process of
  applying through Grants.gov, visit www.grants.gov/GetStarted.
Award Procedure:
                                                                                        821
