45.307 21ST CENTURY MUSEUM PROFESSIONALS                                                 
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  OFFICE OF MUSEUM SERVICES, INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND                                     
  LIBRARY SERVICES, NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND                                  
  THE HUMANITIES                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Museum and Library Services Act, codified at 20 U.S.C. Section 9101 et seq.            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To support projects that address the preparation of museum professionals for the

                                                                                         
  future by updating and expanding their knowledge and skills.

                                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants.

                                                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                         
  The program supports a range of activities, including professional training in all

                                                                                         
  areas of museum operations and leadership development. Examples of activities

                                                                                         
  may include development and implementation of classes, seminars, or

                                                                                         
  workshops; resources and activities to support the development of museum

                                                                                         
  leaders; organizational support for the development of internship and fellowship

                                                                                         
  programs; support for the enhancement of preprofessional training programs;

                                                                                         
  collection, assessment, or development of information that leads to better

                                                                                         
  museum operations; dissemination of information to museum professionals; and           
  activities that increase or strengthen the use of contemporary technology tools.       
  Grants under the 21st Century Museum Professionals program are intended to             
  affect multiple museums by reaching broad groups of museum professionals               
  throughout a city, county, state, region, or the nation, and increase their capacity   
  to serve their audiences. Grant funds may not be used for construction,                
  contributions to endowment funds, social activities, ceremonies, entertainment,        
  collection acquisition, fundraising costs, or pre-grant costs.                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  An eligible applicant must (1) be either a unit of state or local government or a      
  private nonprofit organization that has tax-exempt status under the Internal           
  Revenue Code; (2) be located in one of the 50 states of the United States, the         
  District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American                  
  Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,           
  the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, or the       
  Republic of Palau; and (3) qualify as one of the following three types of              
  organizations: (i) a museum that, using a professional staff, is organized on a        
  permanent basis for essentially educational or aesthetic purposes; owns or uses        
  tangible objects, either animate or inanimate; cares for these objects; and/or         
  exhibits these objects to the general public on a regular basis through facilities     
  which it owns or operates (an institution uses a professional staff if it employs at   
  least one professional staff member, or the full-time equivalent, whether paid or      
  unpaid, primarily engaged in the acquisition, care, or exhibition to the public of     
  objects owned or used by the institution. An institution exhibits objects to the       
  general public if such exhibition is a primary purpose of the institution. An          
  institution that exhibits objects to the general public for at least 120 days a year   
  is deemed to exhibit objects to the general public on a regular basis. An              
  institution that exhibits objects by appointment may meet the requirement to           
  exhibit objects to the general public on a regular basis if it can establish, in light 
  of the facts under all the relevant circumstances, that this method of exhibition      
  does not unreasonably restrict the accessibility of the institution's exhibits to the  
  general public. An institution that does not have as a primary purpose the             
  exhibition of objects to the general public, but that can demonstrate that it          
  exhibits objects to the general public on a regular basis as a significant, separate,  
  distinct, and continuing portion of its activities, and that otherwise meets the       
  museum eligibility requirements, may be determined to be eligible as a museum          
  under these guidelines); (ii) an organization or association that engages in           
  activities designed to advance the well-being of museums and the museum                
  profession; or (iii) an institution of higher education, including public and          
  nonprofit universities. A museum located within a parent organization that is a        
  state or local government or multipurpose nonprofit entity, such as a                  
  municipality, university, historical society, foundation, or a cultural center, may    
  apply on its own behalf if the museum: (1) is able to independently fulfill all the    
  eligibility requirements listed above, (2) functions as a discrete unit within the     
  parent organization, (3) has its own fully segregated and itemized operating           
  budget, and (4) has the authority to make the application on its own. When any         
  of the last three conditions cannot be met, a museum may apply through its             
  parent organization. Prospective applicants that cannot fulfill all of these           
  requirements should contact IMLS to discuss their eligibility before applying.         
                                                                                         
  IMLS may require additional supporting documentation from the applicant to

                                                                                         
  determine the museum's autonomy. Each eligible applicant within a single

                                                                                         
  parent organization should clearly delineate its own programs and operations in

                                                                                         
  the application narrative. A parent organization that controls multiple museums

                                                                                         
  that are not autonomous but are otherwise eligible may submit only one

                                                                                         
  application per grant program; the application may be submitted by the parent

                                                                                         
  organization on behalf of one or more of the eligible museums.

                                                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                         
  All types of museums.

Credentials/Documentation:



                                                                                    11-08
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for state
  and local governments. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations and OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  educational institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  As part of the president's E-government initiative, the federal government
  developed Grants.gov, a single Web site for organizations to electronically find
  and apply for competitive grant opportunities from all 26 of the federal grant-
  making agencies. Beginning with the 2008 grant cycle, the Institute required all
  applicants to apply online through Grants.gov. Applicants who are unable to use
  Grants.gov should contact an IMLS program officer. The Institute no longer
  accepts mailed paper applications. For more information on the process of
  applying through Grants.gov, visit www.grants.gov/GetStarted.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed by field and/or panel reviewers, staff, and the director.
Deadlines:
  March 15.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Six months.
Appeals:
  Appeals may be made in writing to the director of the Institute of Museum and
  Library Services.
Renewals:
  The Institute of Museum and Library Services may extend particular grants at
  the discretion of the director.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Awards will not exceed $500,000 and must be matched by a one-to-one
  applicant cost share. Applicant cost share may include in-kind contributions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects may be carried out for a period of up to 36 months from the project start
  date.
Reports:
  Grant recipients are required to submit semi-annual performance reports every
  six months during the grant period, and an annual financial report. Final
  performance and financial reports are also required at the end of the grant
  period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in federal awards are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grant recipients will be required to maintain standard financial statements and
  project records.
Account Identification:
  59-0300-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,074,017; FY 08 $965,000; FY 09 est $2,141,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 07, the average grant was $207,402, and the range was $29,848 to
  $423,214.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The program funded 10 projects in FY 07.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  See the IMLS Web site at www.imls.gov for the latest program data.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Institute of Museum and Library Services, 1800 M Street, NW, Ninth Floor,
  Washington, DC 20036-5802. Contact: Christopher J. Reich, Telephone: (202)
  653-4685, E-Mail: creich@imls.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.imls.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  45.301, Museums for America; 45.302, Museum Assessment Program; 45.312,
  National Leadership Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The 21st Century Museum Professionals grant program funds projects that
  address the preparation of museum professionals for the future by updating and
  expanding their knowledge and skills.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See program guidelines.
                                                                                   823
