45.308 NATIVE AMERICAN/NATIVE HAWAIIAN MUSEUM                                          
                                                                                       
SERVICES PROGRAM                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF MUSEUM SERVICES, INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND                                   
  LIBRARY SERVICES, NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND                                
  THE HUMANITIES                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Museum and Library Services Act, codified at 20 U.S.C. Section 9101 et seq.          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To enable Indian tribes and Alaska Native villages and corporations and              
  nonprofit organizations that primarily serve and represent Native Hawaiians to       
  benefit their communities and audiences through strengthened museum services         
  in the areas of programming, professional development, and enhancement of            
  museum services.                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants are intended to support activities of Indian tribes and Alaska Native         
  villages and corporations and nonprofit organizations that primarily serve and       
  represent Native Hawaiians in museums and museum-related organizations,              
  such as cultural centers. The grant program will support services and activities in  
  the following areas: (1) programming: services and activities that support the       
  educational mission of museums and museum-related organizations; (2)                 
  professional development: education or training that builds skills, knowledge, or    
  other professional capacity for individuals who provide or manage museum             
  services activities. These persons may be paid or volunteer and may be involved      
  with museum services either currently or in the future; (3) enhancement of           
  museum services: support for activities that enable and improve museum               
  services.                                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Eligible applicants are Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages and corporations,      
  and organizations that primarily serve and represent Native Hawaiians.               
  Museums are not eligible to apply for this grant program. However, they may          
  partner with eligible applicants on projects. Entities such as libraries, schools,   
  tribal colleges, and departments of education are not eligible applicants,           
  although they may be involved in the administration of this program and their        
  staff may serve as project directors, in partnership with an eligible applicant. For 
  the purposes of funding under this program, "The term 'Indian tribe' means any       
  tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any            
  Alaska native village, regional corporation, or village corporation (as defined in,  
                                                                                       
  or established pursuant to, the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C.

                                                                                       
  Section 1601 et seq.), that is recognized by the Secretary of the Interior as

                                                                                       
  eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to

                                                                                       
  Indians because of their status as Indians" (definition taken from the Library

                                                                                       
  Services and Technology Act). Eligible entities are listed on the Bureau of

                                                                                       
  Indian Affairs Web site (www.doi.gov/bureau-indian-affairs.html), except for

                                                                                       
  the recognized Alaska Native villages, regional corporations, and village

                                                                                       
  corporations (Alaskan entities should refer to applicable provisions in the Alaska

                                                                                       
  Native Claims Settlement Act, referenced above). Under this program,

                                                                                       
  "organizations that primarily serve and represent Native Hawaiians--that is, any

                                                                                       
  not-for-profit organization that primarily serves and represents Native              
  Hawaiians, as the term is defined in 20 U.S.C. Section 7517--are also eligible for   
  funding. The term "Native Hawaiian" means any person who is a citizen of the         
  United States and a descendant of the aboriginal people who, before 1778,            
  occupied and exercised sovereignty in the area that is now the state of Hawaii, as   
  evidenced by genealogical records, Kapuna (elders) or Kamaaina (long-term            
  community residents) verification, or certified birth records.

Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Indian tribes, nonprofit organizations.                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87, "Cost

  Principles for State, Local, and Indian Tribal Governments."                         
                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  The standard application forms as furnished by the Institute of Museum and           
  Library Services and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this        
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  As part of the president's E-government initiative, the federal government

                                                                                       
  developed Grants.gov, a single Web site for organizations to electronically find

                                                                                       
  and apply for competitive grant opportunities from all 26 of the federal grant-

                                                                                       
  making agencies. Beginning with the 2008 grant cycle, the Institute required all

                                                                                       
  applicants to apply online through Grants.gov. Applicants who are unable to use

                                                                                       
  Grants.gov should contact an IMLS program officer. The Institute no longer

                                                                                       
  accepts mailed paper applications. For more information on the process of

                                                                                       
  applying through Grants.gov, visit www.grants.gov/GetStarted.

                                                                                       
Award Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Proposals are reviewed by field and/or panel reviewers, staff, and the director.

                                                                                       
Deadlines:

                                                                                       
  April 1.

                                                                                       
824                                                                              11-08

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately five months.
Appeals:
  Appeals may be made in writing to the director of the Institute of Museum and
  Library Services.
Renewals:
  The Institute of Museum and Library Services may extend particular grants at
  the discretion of the director.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The minimum grant is $5,000, and awards will not exceed $50,000. There are no
  matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects may be carried out for a period of up to 24 months from the project start
  date.
Reports:
  The Institute of Museum and Library Services requires interim and final
  financial and narrative performance reports.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in federal awards are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grant and contract recipients will be required to maintain standard financial
  statements and project records.
Account Identification:
  59-0300-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,007,740; FY 08 $895,000; FY 09 est $945,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 07, awards ranged between $13,793 and $50,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, the program awarded 23 grants.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  See the IMLS Web site at www.imls.gov for the latest program data.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Institute of Museum and Library Services, 1800 M Street, N.W., Ninth Floor,
  Washington, DC 20036-5802. Contact: Sandra Narva, Telephone: (202) 653-
  4634,E-mail: snarva@imls.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.imls.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  45.301, Museums for America; 45.302, Museum Assessment Program; 45.303,
  Conservation Project Support; 45.304, Conservation Assessment Program;
  45.307, 21st Century Museum Professionals; 45.311, Native American and
  Native Hawaiian Library Services.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Native American/Native Hawaiian Museum Services Program supports
  projects that strengthen museum services for Native Americans and Native
  Hawaiians by enhancing museum programming and services, and professional
  development for museum staff.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See program guidelines.
45.309 MUSEUM GRANTS FOR AFRICAN AMERICAN
HISTORY AND CULTURE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF MUSEUM SERVICES, INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND
  LIBRARY SERVICES, NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND
  THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Museum and Library Services Act, 20 U.S.C. 9101 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  Museum Grants for African American History and Culture are intended to build
  professional capacity in the African American museum community. The goals of
  the program are to develop and strengthen knowledge, skills, and other expertise
  of current staff at African American museums; to attract and retain professionals
  with the skills needed to strengthen African American museums; and to attract
  new staff to African American museum practice and provide them with the
  expertise they need to sustain them in the museum field.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds may be used to support a wide range of museum activities,
  including staff exchange, mentoring, education, or training, or other strategies
