  that increase the skills needed to improve African American museum services;       
  attendance at museum conferences and other professional meetings; enrollment       
  in courses or workshops; technical assistance or consultation with museum or       
  business professionals from outside the institution; and organizational support    
  for the development and implementation of internship and fellowship programs       
  (awards are not made to individuals). IMLS grant funds may be used only for        
  costs directly related to the project, such as costs for salaries for museum       
  personnel, project supplies and materials, membership fees, telecommunication      
  services and equipment, and other fees or expenses associated with the project.    
  Grant funds may not be used for construction, contributions to endowment           
  funds, social activities, ceremonies, entertainment, collection acquisition,       
  fundraising costs, or pre-grant costs.                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  An applicant must: be either a unit of state or local government, or a private not-
  for-profit organization that has tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue      
  Code; be located in one of the fifty states of the United States, the District of  
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the               
  U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the         
  Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, or the       
  Republic of Palau; and qualify as one of the following three types of              
  organizations: (1) a museum whose primary purpose, as reflected in its mission,    
  is African American life, art, history, and/or culture, encompassing the period of 
                                                                                     
  slavery, the era of Reconstruction, the Harlem Renaissance, the civil rights

                                                                                     
  movement, and other periods of the African American Diaspora; (2) a museum

                                                                                     
  service organization or association whose primary purpose, as reflected in its

                                                                                     
  mission, is to support museums identified above; or (3) historically black

                                                                                     
  colleges and universities as defined by the Higher Education Act of 1965, as

                                                                                     
  amended, 20 U.S.C. Section 1061, and pursuant to Executive Order 13256,

                                                                                     
  dated February 12, 2002. A museum located within a parent organization that is     
  a state or local government or multipurpose not-for-profit entity, such as a       
  municipality, university, historical society, foundation, or cultural center, may  
  apply on its own behalf if the museum (1) is able to independently fulfill all the 
  eligibility requirements listed heretofore, (2) functions as a discrete unit within
  the parent organization, (3) has its own fully segregated and itemized operating   
  budget, and (4) has the authority to make the application on its own. When any     
  of criteria 2 through 4 cannot be met, a museum may apply through its parent       
  organization, and the parent organization may submit a single application for      
  one or more of its museums.                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Public and private nonprofit museums.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and      
  other nonprofit organizations also applies.                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency and required by          
  OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is              
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  As part of the president's E-government initiative, the federal government         
  developed Grants.gov, a single Web site for organizations to electronically find   
  and apply for competitive grant opportunities from all 26 of the federal grant-    
  making agencies. Beginning with the 2008 grant cycle, the Institute required all   
  applicants to apply online through Grants.gov. Applicants who are unable to use    
  Grants.gov should contact an IMLS program officer. The Institute no longer         
  accepts mailed paper applications. For more information on the process of          
  applying through Grants.gov, visit www.grants.gov/GetStarted.                      
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Proposals are reviewed by field and/or panel reviewers, staff, and the director.   
Deadlines:                                                                           
  January 15.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Six months.                                                                        
Appeals:                                                                             
  Appeals may be made in writing to the director of the Institute of Museum and      
  Library Services.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                            
  The Institute of Museum and Library Services may extend particular grants at       
  the discretion of the director.                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Awards will not exceed $150,000 and must be matched by a one-to-one                
  applicant cost share. Applicant cost share may include in-kind contributions.      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Projects may be carried out for a period of up to 24 months from the project start 
  date.                                                                              
Reports:                                                                             
  Grant recipients are required to submit semi-annual performance reports every

                                                                                     
  six months during the grant period, and an annual financial report. Final

                                                                                     
  performance and financial reports are also required at the end of the grant

                                                                                     
  period.

                                                                                     
                                                                                11-08
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in federal awards
  are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in
  Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grant recipients are required to maintain standard financial statements.
Account Identification:
  59-0300-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $880,028; FY 08 est $827,000; FY 09 est $1,350,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Grants range from $5,000 to $150,000. In FY 07, the average grant was
  $88,003, and the range was from $35,865 to $150,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The program funded 10 projects in FY 07.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  See the IMLS Web site at www.imls.gov for the latest program data.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Institute of Museum and Library Services, 1800 M Street, N.W., Ninth Floor,
  Washington, DC 20036-5802. Contact: Christopher J. Reich, Telephone: (202)
  653-4685, E-mail: creich@imls.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.imls.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  45.301, Museums for America; 45.302, Museum Assessment Program; 45.303,
  Conservation Project Support; 45.304, Conservation Assessment Program;
  45.307, 21st Century Museum Professionals; 45.312, National Leadership
  Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Museum Grants for African American History and Culture program funds
  projects that build professional capacity in African American museums.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See program guidelines.
45.310 GRANTS TO STATES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF LIBRARY SERVICES, INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND
  LIBRARY SERVICES, NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND
  THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Museum and Library Services Act, codified at 20 U.S.C. Section 9101 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote improvement in library services in all types of libraries to better
  serve the people of the United States. To facilitate access to resources in all types
  of libraries for the purpose of cultivating an educated and informed citizenry.
  And to encourage resource sharing among all types of libraries for the purpose of
  achieving economical and efficient delivery of library services to the public.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To make grants to state library administrative agencies which shall expend
  funds, either directly or through subgrants, for: (1) expanding services for
  learning and access to information and educational resources in a variety of
  formats, in all types of libraries, for individuals of all ages; (2) developing
  library services that provide all users access to information through local, state,
  regional, national, and international electronic networks; (3) providing electronic
  and other linkages between and among all types of libraries; (4) developing
  public and private partnerships with other agencies and community-based
  organizations; (5) targeting library services to help increase access and ability to
  use information resources for persons of diverse geographic, cultural, and
  socioeconomic backgrounds; persons with disabilities; and persons with limited
  functional literacy or information skills; and (6) targeting library and
  information services to help increase access and ability to use information
  resources for persons who have difficulty using a library and for underserved
  urban and rural communities, including children from birth through age 17 from
  families with incomes below the poverty line.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State library administrative agencies (from the 50 states, the District of
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam,
  American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the
  Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the
  Republic of Palau) that have authority to administer federal funds and have
  financial resources sufficient to match the federal funding requirement may
  apply.
                                                                                     825
