Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  Users of libraries and information services will benefit.                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  A state five-year plan is the program application.                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult IMLS or the official

                                                                                         
  designated as the single point of contact in the state for more information on the     
  process the state requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the state     
  has selected the program for review.                                                   
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  To qualify for grants, states must submit a five-year plan as defined in Section       
  205 of the Act, for approval by the director of IMLS. The plan is submitted            
  directly to the Institute of Museum and Library Services, Office of Library            
  Services, Grants to States Program, 1800 M Street, NW, Ninth Floor,                    
  Washington, DC 20036-5802.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                         
  Grants are awarded to state library administrative agencies.                           
Deadlines:                                                                               
  Contact the program contact listed in the Headquarters section below.                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  A time has not been specified.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                                 
  If IMLS determines that the state plan does not meet the requirements of the           
  Museum and Library Services Act of 2003, the director shall notify the state.          
  During this process, the state has the opportunity for a hearing.                      
Renewals:                                                                                
  A new State plan is required every five years; the next one is due June 30, 2012.      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  The amount a State receives under this program consists of a minimum

                                                                                         
  allotment set by Congress (20 USCS 9131(b)) plus an additional amount based

                                                                                         
  on the most current published population estimates available the first day of the

                                                                                         
  federal fiscal year from the Bureau of the Census. The federal share is 66 percent

                                                                                         
  and the state matching requirement is 34 percent.

                                                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  All funds are awarded to each state on approval of its five-year plan. Funds must

                                                                                         
  be expended by the end of the federal fiscal year following the year of allotment

                                                                                         
  as noted in grant award documentation.

                                                                                         
Reports:

                                                                                         
  IMLS requires annual financial and narrative reports from each state library

                                                                                         
  administrative agency. Each state library administrative agency must

                                                                                         
  independently evaluate and report to IMLS regarding the activities assisted

                                                                                         
  during this program before the end of the state five-year plan.

                                                                                         
Audits:

                                                                                         
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit

                                                                                         
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000

                                                                                         
  or more in federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit

                                                                                         
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a

                                                                                         
  year in federal awards are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year,

                                                                                         
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                         
Records:

                                                                                         
  In 45 CFR 1183.42 (a) and (b), federal regulations state that records must be

                                                                                         
  kept for three years after the grantee (i.e., the state library administrative agency)

                                                                                         
  submits the last expenditure report for that period. (For the Grants to States

                                                                                         
  program, "period" means the five-year period covered by a five-year plan.)

                                                                                         
Account Identification:

                                                                                         
  59-0300-0-1-503.

                                                                                         
Obligations:

                                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $163,746,000; FY 08 $160,885,357; FY 09 est $171,500,000.

                                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  The formula determining the assistance is based on population.                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  For fiscal year 2008, the Grants to States program made 59 awards totaling             
  $160,885,357.                                                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  See the IMLS website at www.imls.gov for the latest program data.                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Institute of Museum and Library Services, Office of Library Services, Grants to        
  States Program, 1800 M Street, N.W., Ninth Floor, Washington, DC 20036-                
  5802. Telephone: (202) 653-4678.                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.imls.gov.                                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  45.311, Native American and Native Hawaiian Library Services; 45.312,                  
  National Leadership Grants; 45.313, Laura Bush 21st Century Librarian                  
  Program.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  The Grants to States program funded library programs and services that promote         


826                                                                                11-08

  access to learning and information resources in all types of libraries for
  individuals of all ages.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
45.311 NATIVE AMERICAN AND NATIVE HAWAIIAN
LIBRARY SERVICES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF LIBRARY SERVICES, INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND
  LIBRARY SERVICES, NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND
  THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Museum and Library Services Act, codified at 20 U.S.C. Section 9101 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages and corporations, and
  organizations that serve and represent Native Hawaiians in providing library
  services to their communities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Native American Library Services Basic Grants are available to Indian tribes and
  Alaska Native villages and corporations to support existing library operations
  and to maintain core library services. The Education/Assessment Option is
  supplemental to the Basic Grant and provides funding for library staff to attend
  library-related continuing education courses and training workshops on- or
  offsite; for library staff to attend or give presentations at conferences related to
  library services, and to hire a consultant for an onsite professional library
  assessment. Native American Library Services Enhancement Grants and Native
  Hawaiian Library Services grants are available to Indian tribes and Alaska
  Native villages and corporations and organizations serving and representing
  Native Hawaiians to enhance existing library services or implement new library
  services, particularly as they relate to the goals of the Library Services and
  Technology Act listed here: to expand services for learning and access to
  information and educational resources in a variety of formats, in all types of
  libraries, for individuals of all ages; to develop library services that provide all
  users with access to information through local, state, regional, national, and
  international electronic networks; to provide electronic and other linkages
  between and among all types of libraries; to develop public and private
  partnerships with other agencies and community-based organizations; to target
  library services to help increase access and ability to use information resources
  for individuals of diverse geographic, cultural, and socioeconomic backgrounds,
  individuals with disabilities, and individuals with limited functional literacy or
  information skills; and to target library and information services to help increase
  access and ability to use information resources for persons having difficulty
  using a library and for underserved urban and rural communities, including
  children from birth to age 17 from families with incomes below the poverty line
  (as defined by the Office of Management and Budget).
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally recognized Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages and corporations, and
  organizations primarily serving and representing Native Hawaiians may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Indian tribes, Alaska Native villages and corporations, and organizations that
  serve and represent Native Hawaiians benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for state
  and local governments and federally recognized Indian tribal governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Institute of Museum and
  Library Services and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  As part of the president's E-government initiative, the federal government
  developed Grants.gov, a single website for organizations to electronically find
  and apply for competitive grant opportunities from all 26 of the federal grant-
  making agencies. Beginning with the 2008 grant cycle, the Institute required all
  applicants to apply online through Grants.gov. Applicants who are unable to use
  Grants.gov should contact an IMLS program officer. The Institute no longer
  accepts mailed paper applications. For more information on the process of
  applying through Grants.gov, visit www.grants.gov/GetStarted.
Award Procedure:
  Competitive proposals are reviewed by field and/or panel reviewers, staff, and
  the director.
Deadlines:
  Native American Library Services Basic Grants and Native American Library
  Services Basic Grants with Education/Assessment Option: March 1. Native
  American Library Services Enhancement Grants: May 1. Native Hawaiian
  Library Services grants: May 15.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Three to four months.
