Appeals:                                                                           
  Appeals may be made in writing to the director of the Institute of Museum and    
  Library Services.                                                                
Renewals:                                                                          
  The Institute of Museum and Library Services may extend particular grants at     
  the discretion of the director.                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  No matching funds required.                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Native American Library Services Basic Grants, Basic Grants with                 
  Education/Assessment Option, and Native Hawaiian Library Services grants are     
  for one year. Native American Library Services Enhancement Grants may run        
  for a period of up to 24 months from the project start date.                     
Reports:                                                                           
  The Institute of Museum and Library Services requires final financial and        
  narrative reports.                                                               
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"   
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in      
  federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that 
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in federal awards
  are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in     
  Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                           
  Grant recipients will be required to maintain standard financial statements.     
Account Identification:                                                            
  59-0300-0-1-503.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 $3,638,000; FY 08 $3,574,000; FY 09 est $3,717,000.

                                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                   
  None.

                                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  In FY 07, the Native American Library Services grant program awarded a total     
  of 251 grants. The Native Hawaiian Library Services grant program awarded one    
  grant.                                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  See the IMLS website at www.imls.gov for the latest program data.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Institute of Museum and Library Services, 1800 M Street, N.W., Ninth Floor,      
  Washington, DC 20036-5802. Contact: Alison Freese, Telephone: (202) 653-         
  4665, E-mail: afreese@imls.gov.                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.imls.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  45.310, Grants to States; 45.312, National Leadership Grants; 45.313, Laura      
  Bush 21st Century Librarian Program.                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  The Native American Library Services Basic Grant supports existing library       
  operations and maintains core library services. The Education/Assessment         
  Option is supplemental to the Basic Grant and provides funding for library staff 
  to attend library-related continuing education courses and training workshops    
  on- or offsite, to attend or give presentations at conferences related to library
  services, and to hire a consultant for an onsite professional library assessment.
  Native American Library Services Enhancement Grants support projects to          
  enhance existing library services or implement new library services to better    
  serve the needs of Indian tribal communities and Alaska Native villages and      
  corporations. Native Hawaiian Library Services grants support enhancement and    
  expansion of existing library services to the Native Hawaiian population.        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  See program guidelines.                                                          
                                                                                   
45.312 NATIONAL LEADERSHIP GRANTS                                                  
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND LIBRARY SERVICES, NATIONAL                               
  FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND THE HUMANITIES                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Museum and Library Services Act, codified at 20 U.S.C. Section 9101 et seq.      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To enhance the quality of library and museum services nationwide and to          
  provide coordination between libraries and museums.                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  The Institute restored the research component to its Library-Museum              
  Community Collaboration category. Collaboration grants provide opportunities     
  for libraries and museums to partner with each other and with a host of other    
  community organizations, including public broadcasters, schools, universities,



                                                                              11-08
  cultural and performing arts organizations, and health and social service
  providers. A partnership of at least one eligible library entity and one eligible
  museum entity is required. This category supports projects that address
  community civic and educational needs; increase the organizations' capacity to
  serve as effective venues and resources for learning; use technology in
  innovative ways to serve audiences more effectively; conduct collaborative
  research; or advance knowledge and best practices through collaborative digital
  projects. The Building Digital Resources category, renamed Advancing Digital
  Resources, supports the creation, use, preservation, and presentation of
  significant digital resources as well as the development of tools to manage
  digital assets incorporating new technologies or new technology practice.
  Projects should enhance learning and innovation by ensuring that the digital
  assets promote individual and community access to museum and library
  resources. This category encourages explorations of all types of digital resources,
  from use of resources on the Web to digital content through video, audio, or
  television. IMLS will support projects that digitize, preserve, and aggregate
  digital content from libraries, museums, and/or archives on a large-scale,
  statewide, or thematic basis; develop and disseminate new tools to enable
  libraries and museums to effectively manage, preserve, present, and/or use
  digital resources; increase community access to institutional resources through
  innovative approaches and/or improved practice; increase community access to
  institutional resources by improving practice in use, dissemination, and support
  of existing technology-based tools; develop or advance participation in museum
  and/or library communities using social technologies in new ways; or develop
  new approaches or tools for digital curation. The Research and Demonstration
  category has been split into two separate categories. Research grants support
  projects that have the potential to improve museum and library practice, resource
  use, programs, and services. Both basic and applied research projects are
  encouraged. Research proposals should pose a question and explain through the
  plan of work how the question will be investigated, how the data will be
  gathered and analyzed, and how the results will be evaluated and disseminated.
  Additionally, methodologies must be replicable and results valid and predictable.
  Successful proposals will place the proposed work within the context of current
  research. Applied research may include testing in a real-world environment, but
  must be carried out through investigative methodology. Results of research must
  be generalizable and of broad benefit to the library or museum field. Research
  conducted by a collaboration between a library and a museum should be
  submitted under the Library-Museum Collaboration Grants category. This
  category supports projects that evaluate the impact of library or museum
  services; investigates how learning takes place in museums and libraries and
  how use of library and/or museum resources enhances learning; investigates how
  to improve the quality, effectiveness, or efficiency of library or museum
  management, programs, or services; investigates ways to enhance the archiving,
  preservation, management, discovery, and use of digital assets and resources; or
  investigates or conducts research to add new knowledge or make improvements
  on the conservation and preservation of collections. Demonstration projects use
  available knowledge to address key needs and challenges facing libraries and
  museums, transforming thatknowledgeinto
  formalpractice. Projects applying under this category should produce a
  replicable model usable by other institutions for improving practice. The new
  category supports projects that: demonstrate and/or test new practices in
  museum and/or library operations; demonstrate how museums and/or libraries
  serve their communities by fostering public value, and how they implement
  systemic changes in the field; establish and/or test standards and tools for
  innovative learning; or demonstrate and/or test an expansion of preservation or
  conservation practices. Across all categories, IMLS particularly encourages
  projects that meet community needs through innovative collaborations between
  museums and libraries and with other organizations as appropriate. Partnerships
  between libraries and museums are particularly encouraged under this program.
  In addition, collaborative planning grants of $40,000 are available to enable
  project teams from more than one institution to work together to plan a
  collaborative project in any of the four categories. The lead applicant must be an
  eligible library or museum entity. Applicants in this category are expected to
  have a basic framework (concept, team, work plan) that has the potential for
  national leadership. The planning grant will support the activities required to
  develop the idea fully. Planning grants should result in such products as plans,
  prototypes, or proofs of concept, which could lead to a National Leadership
  Grant implementation project. Applicants must have at least one formal partner.
  Applicants may submit a planning grant application under any of the National
  Leadership Grant categories listed above. Funds may support the full range of
  planning activities, including salaries, consultant fees, travel, convenings,
  services, and materials and supplies. The receipt of a collaborative planning
  grant neither guarantees nor implies continued support beyond the completion of
  the planning grant.
Applicant Eligibility:
  LIBRARIES: All types of libraries, except federal and for-profit libraries, may
  apply. Eligible libraries include public, school, academic, special, private (not-
  for-profit), archives, library agencies, library consortia, and library associations.
  Also eligible are research libraries and archives that give the public access to
                                                                                     827
