  services and materials suitable for scholarly research not otherwise available and   
  that are not part of a university or college. Digital libraries that make library    
  materials publicly available and provide services including selection,               
  organization, description, reference, and preservation under the supervision of at   
  least one permanent professional staff librarian are eligible to apply. Institutions 
  of higher education, including public and not-for-profit universities and            
  colleges, also are eligible. An academic unit, such as a graduate school of library  
  and information science, may apply as part of an institution of higher education.    
  Library applicants may apply individually or as partners. MUSEUMS: All types         
  of museums, large and small, are eligible for funding. Eligible museums include      
  aquariums, arboretums and botanical gardens, art museums, youth museums,             
  general museums, historic houses and sites, history museums, nature centers,         
  natural history and anthropology museums, planetariums, science and                  
  technology centers, specialized museums, and zoological parks. Federally             
  operated and for-profit museums may not apply for IMLS funds.                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Libraries, archives, and museums will benefit.                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for state          
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and        
  other nonprofit organizations also applies.                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Institute of Museum and           
  Library Services and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this        
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  As part of the president's E-government initiative, the federal government           
  developed Grants.gov, a single Web site for organizations to electronically find     
  and apply for competitive grant opportunities from all 26 of the federal grant-      
  making agencies. Beginning with the 2008 grant cycle, the Institute required all     
  applicants to apply online through Grants.gov. Applicants who are unable to use      
  Grants.gov should contact an IMLS program officer. The Institute no longer           
  accepts mailed paper applications. For more information on the process of            
  applying through Grants.gov, visit www.grants.gov/GetStarted.                        
Award Procedure:

  Proposals are reviewed by field and/or panel reviewers, staff, and the director.     
Deadlines:

  February 1.                                                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately eight months.                                                          
Appeals:                                                                               
  Appeals may be made in writing to the director of the Institute of Museum and        
  Library Services.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                              
  The Institute of Museum and Library Services may extend particular grants at         
  the discretion of the director.                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Projects requesting $250,000 or more must be matched one-to-one. This                
  requirement is waived for research projects. Cost sharing of at least one-third is   
  encouraged for projects requesting less than $250,000 and for research projects.     
  Demonstration projects are subject to nonresearch matching provisions.               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Projects may be carried out for a period of up to 36 months from the project start   
  date.                                                                                
Reports:                                                                               
  The Institute of Museum and Library Services requires interim and final              
  financial and narrative reports.                                                     
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in federal awards    
  are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in         
  Circular No. A-133.                                                                  
Records:                                                                               
  Recipients will be required to maintain standard financial statements.               
Account Identification:                                                                
  59-0300-0-1-503.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $20,295,000; FY 08 est $19,941,000; FY 09 est $20,925,000.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Between $50,000 to $1,000,000.                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  For FY 07, the National Leadership Grants program for libraries made 27              
  awards, including 6 planning grants, and the program for museums made 19             
  awards, including 4 planning grants.                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  See the IMLS Web site at www.imls.gov for the latest program data.                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                              


828                                                                              11-08

  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Institute of Museum and Library Services, 1800 M Street, NW, Ninth Floor,
  Washington, DC 20036-5802. Library contacts: Rachel Frick, Senior Program
  Officer (Advancing Digital Resources, Research, Demonstration, Collaborative
  Planning Grants), Telephone: (202) 653-4667, E-mail: rfrick@imls.gov; Susan
  Malbin (Library-Museum Community Collaboration Grants, Collaborative
  Planning Grants), Telephone: (202) 653-4768, E-mail: smalbin@imls.gov.
  Museum contact: Dan Lukash, Telephone: (202) 653-4644, E-mail:
  dlukash@imls.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.imls.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  45.301, Museums for America; 45.303, Conservation Project Support; 45.307,
  21st Century Museum Professionals; 45.310, Grants to States; 45.311, Native
  American and Native Hawaiian Library Services; 45.313, Laura Bush 21st
  Century Librarian Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  National Leadership Grants enable libraries and museums to help all individuals
  attain the knowledge, skills, attitudes, behaviors, and resources that enhance
  their engagement in community, work, family, and society. Projects should
  enable libraries and museums to address current problems in creative ways,
  develop and test innovative solutions, and expand the boundaries within which
  cultural heritage institutions operate. The results of these projects will help equip
  tomorrow's libraries and museums to better meet the needs of a Nation of
  Learners. Successful proposals will show evidence that they will have national
  impact and generate results--whether new tools, research, models, services,
  practices, or alliances--that can be widely adapted or replicated to extend the
  benefit of federal support. Proposals will reflect an understanding of current
  issues and needs, showing the potential for far-reaching impact throughout the
  museum and library communities. Projects will provide creative solutions to
  issues of national importance and provide leadership for other organizations.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See guidelines.
45.313 LAURA BUSH 21ST CENTURY LIBRARIAN
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF LIBRARY SERVICES, INSTITUTE OF MUSEUM AND
  LIBRARY SERVICES, NATIONAL FOUNDATION ON THE ARTS AND
  THE HUMANITIES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Museum and Library Services Act, codified at 20 U.S.C. Section 9101 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support projects to develop faculty and library leaders, to recruit and educate
  the next generation of librarians, to conduct research, to attract high school and
  college students to consider careers in libraries, to build institutional capacity in
  graduate schools of library and information science, and to assist in the
  professional development of librarians and library staff.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Categories of funding are: (1) doctoral programs, (2) master's programs, (3)
  research, (4) preprofessional programs, (5) programs to build institutional
  capacity, and (6) continuing education.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All types of libraries, except federal and for-profit libraries, may apply. Eligible
  libraries include public, school, academic, special, private (not-for-profit),
  archives, library agencies, library consortia, and library associations. In addition,
  research libraries that give the public access to services and materials suitable
  for scholarly research not otherwise available to the public and that are not part
  of a university or college are eligible. Institutions of higher education, including
  public and not-for-profit universities and colleges, also are eligible. Graduate
  schools of library and information science may apply as part of an institution of
  higher education. See program guidelines for specific eligibility criteria.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Libraries and institutions of higher education will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and
  other nonprofit organizations also applies.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Institute of Museum and
  Library Services and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  As part of the president's E-government initiative, the federal government
  developed Grants.gov, a single website for organizations to electronically find
  and apply for competitive grant opportunities from all 26 of the federal grant-
