                                                  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION

47.041 ENGINEERING GRANTS                                                           
                                                                                    
   (ENG)                                                                            
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42

                                                                                    
  U.S.C. 1861 et seq.                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  NSF's Directorate for Engineering (ENG) seeks to improve the quality of life and

                                                                                    
  the economic strength of the Nation by fostering innovation, creativity, and

                                                                                    
  excellence in engineering education and research. Specifically, ENG enables the

                                                                                    
  Nation's long- term capacity to perform by: (1) Investing in the creation of new

                                                                                    
  engineering knowledge and the development of human capital within disciplines

                                                                                    
  and at their interfaces; (2) making critical investments to enable an intelligent,
  agile and adaptable physical infrastructure for engineering education and         
  research; (3) improving the quality and effectiveness of engineering education    
  and research through the integration of and systemic reform of these processes;   
  and (4) enabling knowledge transfer connections among diverse constituencies      
  and communities. Areas of research include: tissue engineering; metabolic         
  pathway engineering; bioinformatics; protein drug processing, fluid flow;         
  combustion; heat transfer; fuel cells; sensors; integrated modeling of the        
  behavior of materials and structures; civil infrastructure; structures and        
  mechanical systems; engineering in geologic materials; reducing risks of natural  
  and technological hazards; enterprise-level integration technologies; innovative  
  design strategies; manufacturing processes and materials; production systems;     
  microelectronic, nanoelectronic, micromagnetic, photonic, and                     
  electromechanical devices and their integration into circuits and microsystems;   
  design and analysis of systems and the convergence of control, communications     
  and computation; Engineering Research Groups; Engineering Research Centers;       
  Industry/University Cooperative Research Centers; Engineering Education;          
  Human Resources Development; cross cutting activities and special studies and     
  analyses. Support is also provided for undergraduate student research, graduate   
  research fellowships, research equipment and instrumentation, Small Business      
  Innovation Research (SBIR), and Grant Opportunities for Academic Liaison          
  with Industry (GOALI). ENG also provides support for Foundation-wide              
  programs including the Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER) program          
  and the Integrative Graduate Education and Research Training (IGERT)              
  Program, and Small Business Technology Transfer Program (STTR).                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funds may be used for paying costs to conduct research, such as salaries and      
  wages, equipment and supplies, travel, publication costs, other direct costs, and 
  indirect costs. This program does not provide support for inventions, product     
  development, marketing, pilot plant efforts, technical assistance, or research    
  requiring security classifications.                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Public and private colleges and universities; Non-profit, non-academic            
  organizations; For-profit organizations; State and Local Governments; and         
  unaffiliated scientists under special circumstances. See the Grant Proposal Guide 
  for a full description of eligibility requirements.                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  See the Grant Proposal Guide, Section I.E. for a full description of eligibility  
  requirements.                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  The proposal must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit    
  the institution or organization in business and financial affairs and who can     
  commit the organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be         
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for colleges and             
  universities and A-122 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded      
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None required for unsolicited proposals, but preliminary discussions with         
  relevant National Science Foundation program officer, by telephone or mail, is    
  encouraged if specific program information is needed. Special proposal            
  competitions may specify preliminary proposal requirements. This program is       
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This program is              
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Proposals must be submitted electronically via FastLane to the Engineering        
  Programs and should follow the general instructions and guidelines in the NSF     
  "Grant Proposal Guide." Research proposals for support under the Small            
  Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program must be submitted in response to      
  an annual solicitation. All proposals are acknowledged. These programs are        
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                              
Award Procedure:

                                                                               11-08
  NSF staff members review and evaluate all proposals with the assistance and
  advice of scientists and engineers who are specialists in the field covered by the
  proposal, of prospective users of research results when appropriate, and of
  specialists in other Federal agencies when appropriate.
Deadlines:
  Many NSF programs accept proposals at any time. Other programs, however,
  establish due dates for submission of proposals. NSF utilizes Target Dates,
  Deadline Dates, and Submission Windows. Consult the Grant Proposal Guide,
  Section I.F. for a further description of these types of due dates. See the
  Directorate's web pages for deadlines for unsolicited research proposals
  (http://www.nsf.gov/dir/index.jsp?org=ENG). Proposers should contact the
  program officer listed under the Information Contacts section of this program for
  dates on specific programs.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 3 to 7 months.
Appeals:
  The Principal Investigator may request, in writing, that the Foundation
  reconsider its action in declining any proposal, renewal, or continuing grant
  proposal.
Renewals:
  NSF awards the following types of grants: 1) Standard Grants, in which NSF
  agrees to support a specified level of effort for a specified period of time, with
  no statement of NSF intent to provide additional future support. Proposals for
  renewal of a Standard Grant compete with all other pending proposals. 2)
  Continuing Grants, in which NSF agrees to support a specified level of effort for
  a specified period of time, with a statement of intent to provide additional
  support for the project, provided funds are available and the results achieved
  warrant further support. Funding is normally in one-year increments. Some
  awards are made as cooperative agreements when substantial NSF involvement
  is required during the project performance period. Renewals are not allowed for
  the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Grant Proposal Guide (GPG)(Chapter II) and the Grant Policy Manual (Sec.
  330) provide additional information on the general NSF policy on cost-sharing.
  The Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program is a phased project
  program. Phase I is a feasibility study up to 6 months. Phase II is the principal
  research program for up to 24 months.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Normally 6 months to 3 years, occasionally longer.
Reports:
  For all multi-year grants (including both standard and continuing grants), the PI
  must submit an annual project report to the cognizant program office at least 90
  days before the end of the current budget period. Within 90 days after the
  expiration of a grant, the PI is required to submit a final project report. Quarterly
  Federal Cash Transaction Reports are required. Other reporting requirements
  may be imposed via the grant instrument.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that
  funds are used for the general purpose for which the award was made. Records
  are subject to inspection during the life of the award and for 3 years thereafter.
Account Identification:
  49-0100-0-1-251.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $629,990,000; FY 08 est $636,870,000; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $5,000 to $4,000,000; $120,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2006, 9,427 proposals were received and 1,737 awards were made.
  In fiscal year 2007, 9,575 proposals were received and 1,958 awards were made,
  and in fiscal year 2008 approximately 9,890 proposals will be received and
  about 1,978 awards will be made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR Chapter VI; 48 CFR Chapter 25; "NSF Guide to Programs, fiscal year
  2004," NSF 04-009 (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?nsf04009); and "Grant
  Proposal Guide," (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?nsf0423); selected
  solicitations include "Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) and Small
  Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Programs Phase I Solicitation," NSF 06-
  553; "Faculty Early Career Development (CAREER)," NSF 05-579; "Grant
                                                                                      831
