  Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry (GOALI)," NSF 98-142;               
  "Major Research Instrumentation (MRI)," NSF 05-515. For descriptions of ENG          
  funding opportunities, please check the NSF Directorate for Engineering web          
  site. The URL address is: http://www.eng.nsf.gov/.                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  For information and publications: Dr. Donald Senich, Program Director, Grant         
  Opportunities for Academic Liaison with Industry, Directorate for Engineering,       
  National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA 22230.                 
  Telephone: (703) 292-7082. E-mail: dsenich@nsf.gov, NSF World Wide Web               
  site, URL: http//www.nsf.gov/. For general inquiries: enginfo@nsf.gov.               
Web Site Address:

  http://www.eng.nsf.gov/.

RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  11.609, Measurement and Engineering Research and Standards; 15.807,                  
  Earthquake Hazards Reduction Program; 47.074, Biological Sciences; 47.075,

  Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences; 47.076, Education and Human               
  Resources; 47.079, International Science and Engineering (OISE); 81.049,             
  Office of Science Financial Assistance Program; 84.133, National Institute on        
  Disability and Rehabilitation Research.                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  1) Cell-Based Sensors that link Nanotechnology with Microfluidics. (2)               
  Nanostructural Engineering of Complex Functional Particles. (3) Network for          
  Earthquake Engineering Simulation (NEES). (4) Rapid Fabrication of Non-              
  Assembly Mechanisms with Embedded Components. (5) Development of                     
  Biosensors for Rapid Screening. (6) Health Monitoring of Critical Civil              
  Infrastructure for Safety and Security. (7) Liquid Logic-The 3rd Wave in             
  Electronics. (8) Internally Mounted Engines for Aircraft of the Future. (9)          
  Particle Laden Tubeless Siphon With Applications to Homeland Defense. (10)           
  MEMS Tuners for Multi-band High Efficiency Wireless Transmitters. (11)               
  Nanotube-Based Electronic Pressure Sensor. (12) SBIR Research: Development           
  of a Novel Sensing Material for Waterborne Pathogens.                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The National Science Board approved revised criteria for evaluating proposals at     
  its meeting on March 28, 1997 (NSB 97-72). All NSF proposals are evaluated           
  through use of the two merit review criteria. In some instances, however, NSF        
  will employ additional criteria as required to highlight the specific objectives of  
  certain programs and activities. On July 8, 2002, the NSF Director issued            
  Important Notice 127, Implementation of new Grant Proposal Guide                     
  Requirements Related to the Broader Impacts Criterion. This Important Notice         
  reinforces the importance of addressing both criteria in the preparation and         
  review of all proposals submitted to NSF. NSF continues to strengthen its            
  internal processes to ensure that both of the merit review criteria are addressed    
  when making funding decisions. In an effort to increase compliance with these        
  requirements, the January 2002 issuance of the GPG incorporated revised              
  proposal preparation guidelines relating to the development of the Project           
  Summary and Project Description. Chapter II of the GPG specifies that Principal      
  Investigators (PIs) must address both merit review criteria in separate statements   
  within the one-page Project Summary. This chapter also reiterates that broader       
  impacts resulting from the proposed project must be addressed in the Project         
  Description and described as an integral part of the narrative. Effective October    
  1, 2002, NSF will return without review proposals that do not separately address     
  both merit review criteria within the Project Summary. It is believed that these     
  changes to NSF proposal preparation and processing guidelines will more clearly      
  articulate the importance of broader impacts to NSF-funded projects. The two         
  National Science Board's approved merit review criteria are listed below (see the    
  Grant Proposal Guide Chapter III.A for further information). The criteria            
  include considerations that help define them. These considerations are               
  suggestions and not all will apply to any given proposal. While proposers must       
  address both merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked to address only those    
  considerations that are relevant to the proposal being considered and for which      
  he/she is qualified to make judgments. What is the intellectual merit of the         
  proposed activity? How important is the proposed activity to advancing               
  knowledge and understanding within its own field or across different fields?         
  How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team) to conduct the project?      
  (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality of the prior work.) To     
  what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore creative and original     
  concepts? How well conceived and organized is the proposed activity? Is there        
  sufficient access to resources? What are the broader impacts of the proposed         
  activity? How well does the activity advance discovery and understanding while       
  promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well does the proposed activity      
  broaden the participation of underrepresented groups (e.g., gender, ethnicity,       
  disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it enhance the infrastructure for 
  research and education, such as facilities, instrumentation, networks, and           
  partnerships? Will the results be disseminated broadly to enhance scientific and     
  technological understanding? What may be the benefits of the proposed activity       
  to society? NSF staff will give careful consideration to the following in making     
  funding decisions: Integration of Research and Education. One of the principal       
  strategies in support of NSF's goals is to foster integration of research and        


832                                                                              11-08

  education through the programs, projects, and activities it supports at academic
  and research institutions. These institutions provide abundant opportunities
  where individuals may concurrently assume responsibilities as researchers,
  educators, and students and where all can engage in joint efforts that infuse
  education with the
  excitementofdiscoveryandenrich research through the diversity of learning
  perspectives. Integrating Diversity into NSF Programs, Projects, and Activities.
  Broadening opportunities and enabling the participation of all citizens -- women
  and men, underrepresented minorities, and persons with disabilities -- is
  essential to the health and vitality of science and engineering. NSF is committed
  to this principle of diversity and deems it central to the programs, projects, and
  activities it considers and supports.
47.049 MATHEMATICAL AND PHYSICAL SCIENCES
   (MPS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42
  U.S.C. 1861 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote the progress of the mathematical and physical sciences and thereby
  strengthen the Nation's scientific enterprise; to increase the store of scientific
  knowledge and enhance understanding of major problems confronting the
  Nation. Most of the research supported is basic in character. The program
  includes support of research project grants in the following disciplines:
  astronomical sciences, chemistry, materials research, mathematical sciences,
  physics, as well as support for symposia and conferences. Basic research in
  multidisciplinary areas related to these disciplines is especially encouraged.
  Support is also provided for state-of-the-art user facilities in astronomy, physics,
  and many areas of materials science; science and technology centers; institutes;
  undergraduate student research; faculty enhancement; curriculum development;
  instrumentation; laboratory improvement; and for research opportunities for
  women, minority, and disabled scientists and engineers.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds may be used for paying costs necessary to conduct research or
  studies, such as salaries and wages, permanent equipment, expendable materials
  and supplies, travel, participant support; publication costs, and other direct and
  indirect costs. Primary responsibility for general supervision of all grant
  activities rests with the grantee institution; the principal investigator is
  responsible for the scientific work. Funds may not be used for purposes other
  than those specified in the proposal.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public and private colleges and universities; Non-profit, non-academic
  organizations; For-profit organizations; State and Local Governments; and
  unaffiliated scientists under special circumstances. See the Grant Proposal Guide
  for a full description of eligibility requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  See the Grant Proposal Guide, Section I.E. for a full description of eligibility
  requirements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposals must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit the
  institution or organization in business and financial affairs and who can commit
  the organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for colleges and universities and A-
  122 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded from coverage under
  OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  By electronic submission via FastLane or Grants.gov of a formal proposal
  describing the research or study to be undertaken. Guidelines are contained in
  publication, "Grant Proposal Guide," and "Guide to Programs Fiscal Year 2004"
  NSF 04-009. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-
  110. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Award Procedure:
  NSF staff members review and evaluate all proposals generally with the
  assistance and advice of other qualified scientists and other appropriate persons
  who are specialists in the field covered by the proposal. Proposals are accepted
  on the basis of merit to the extent permitted by available funds. States will be
  notified of Federal assistance awards through the Federal Assistance Awards
  Data System (FAADS).
Deadlines:
  Many NSF programs accept proposals at any time. Other programs, however,
  establish due dates for submission of proposals. NSF utilizes Target Dates,
  Deadline Dates, and Submission Windows. Consult the Grant Proposal Guide,
