  Section I.F. for a further description of these types of due dates. Links to MPS     
  funding opportunities and relevant deadlines or submission windows can be            
  found at: http://www.nsf.gov/funding/pgm_list.jsp?org=MPS.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 4 to 6 months.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  The principal investigator may request, in writing, that the Foundation              
  reconsider its action in declining any proposal application, renewal application,    
  or continuing application.                                                           
Renewals:                                                                              
  Proposals for renewals, containing the same type of information as the original      
  proposal, should be submitted at least 6 months before the expiration date of the    
  award. Renewals are treated in competition with all other pending proposals.         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Some equipment programs have cost-sharing. Cost-sharing is not required for          
  awards made solely for symposia, conferences and workshops, publication,             
  education and training, facilities, or travel. The Grant Proposal Guide (GPG)        
  (Chapter II) and the Grant Policy Manual (Sec. 330) provide additional               
  information on the general NSF policy on cost-sharing.                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Normally 3 to 5 years.                                                               
Reports:                                                                               
  For all multi-year grants (including both standard and continuing grants), the PI    
  must submit an annual project report to the cognizant program office at least 90     
  days before the end of the current budget period. Within 90 days after the           
  expiration of a grant, the PI is required to submit a final project report. Quarterly
  Federal Cash Transaction Reports are required. Other reporting requirements          
  may be imposed via the grant instrument.                                             
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                      
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000     
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit             
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a        
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,     
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                               
Records:                                                                               
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that     
  funds are used for the general purpose for which the grant was made. Records         
  are subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for 3 years thereafter.   
Account Identification:                                                                
  49-0100-0-1-251.                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,150,730,000; FY 08 est $1,167,310,000; and FY 09 est not

                                                                                       
  reported.

                                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                       
  $10,000 to $45,000,000; $130,100.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  In fiscal year 2007, 7,316 proposals were received and 2,361 awards were made.       
  In fiscal year 2008, approximately 7,680 proposals is expected to be received        
  and 2,400 awards will be made.                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  48 CFR Chapter 25; 45 CFR Chapter VI; "NSF Guide to Programs, fiscal year            
  2004," NSF 04-009 (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?nsf04009); and "Grant           
  Proposal Guide," (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?nsf0423).                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.

Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Assistant Director, Mathematical and Physical Sciences, National Science

  Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA 22230. Telephone: (703) 292-            
  8801. NSF World Wide Web site URL: http://www.nsf.gov/.

Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.nsf.gov/dir/index.jsp?org=MPS .                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  47.074, Biological Sciences; 47.075, Social, Behavioral, and Economic                
  Sciences; 47.076, Education and Human Resources; 47.070, Computer and                
  Information Science and Engineering; 47.041, Engineering Grants; 47.050,             
  Geosciences; 47.078, Polar Programs; 47.079, International Science and               
  Engineering (OISE); 47.080, Office of Cyberinfrastructure.                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  1) Arizona, "Characterization of Nanoparticle-Linked Biomolecule Assemblies          
  for Advanced Bioelectronic Detection;" 2) Montana, "Growth and Physical              
  Properties Measurements of Novel Condensed Matter Materials;" 3) California,         
  "Large-Scale Phenomena in Models of Statistical Mechanics;" 4) New York,             
  "Spatiotemporal Control of Cardiac Electrical Dynamics;" and 5) Pennsylvania,        
  "Empirical Tests of Galactic Black Hole Growth."                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The National Science Board approved revised criteria for evaluating proposals at     
  its meeting on March 28, 1997 (NSB 97-72). All NSF proposals are evaluated           
  through use of the two merit review criteria. In some instances, however, NSF        
                                                                                       


                                                                                  11-08
  will employ additional criteria as required to highlight the specific objectives of
  certain programs and activities. On July 8, 2002, the NSF Director issued
  Important Notice 127, Implementation of new Grant Proposal Guide
  Requirements Related to the Broader Impacts Criterion. This Important Notice
  reinforces the importance of addressing both criteria in the preparation and
  review of all proposals submitted to NSF. NSF continues to strengthen its
  internal processes to ensure that both of the merit review criteria are addressed
  when making funding decisions. In an effort to increase compliance with these
  requirements, the January 2002 issuance of the GPG incorporated revised
  proposal preparation guidelines relating to the development of the Project
  Summary and Project Description. Chapter II of the GPG specifies that
  Principal Investigators (PIs) must address both merit review criteria in separate
  statements within the one-page Project Summary. This chapter also reiterates
  that broader impacts resulting from the proposed project must be addressed in
  the Project Description and described as an integral part of the narrative.
  Effective October 1, 2002, NSF will return without review proposals that do not
  separately address both merit review criteria within the Project Summary. It is
  believed that these changes to NSF proposal preparation and processing
  guidelines will more clearly articulate the importance of broader impacts to
  NSF-funded projects. The two National Science Board's approved merit review
  criteria are listed below (see the Grant Proposal Guide Chapter III.A for further
  information). The criteria include considerations that help define them. These
  considerations are suggestions and not all will apply to any given proposal.
  While proposers must address both merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked
  to address only those considerations that are relevant to the proposal being
  considered and for which he/she is qualified to make judgments. What is the
  intellectual merit of the proposed activity? How important is the proposed
  activity to advancing knowledge and understanding within its own field or
  across different fields? How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team)
  to conduct the project? (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality
  of the prior work.) To what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore
  creative and original concepts? How well conceived and organized is the
  proposed activity? Is there sufficient access to resources? What are the broader
  impacts of the proposed activity? How well does the activity advance discovery
  and understanding while promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well
  does the proposed activity broaden the participation of underrepresented groups
  (e.g., gender, ethnicity, disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it
  enhance the infrastructure for research and education, such as facilities,
  instrumentation, networks, and partnerships? Will the results be disseminated
  broadly to enhance scientific and technological understanding? What may be
  the benefits of the proposed activity to society? NSF staff will give careful
  consideration to the following in making funding decisions: Integration of
  Research and Education. One of the principal strategies in support of NSF's
  goals is to foster integration of research and education through the programs,
  projects, and activities it supports at academic and research institutions. These
  institutions provide abundant opportunities where individuals may concurrently
  assume responsibilities as researchers, educators, and students and where all can
  engage in joint efforts that infuse education
  withtheexcitementofdiscovery and enrich research through the diversity of
  learning perspectives. Integrating Diversity into NSF Programs, Projects, and
  Activities. Broadening opportunities and enabling the participation of all
  citizens -- women and men, underrepresented minorities, and persons with
  disabilities -- is essential to the health and vitality of science and engineering.
  NSF is committed to this principle of diversity and deems it central to the
  programs, projects, and activities it considers and supports.
47.050 GEOSCIENCES
   (GEO)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42
  U.S.C. 1861 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To strengthen and enhance the national scientific enterprise through the
  expansion of fundamental knowledge and increased understanding of the
  integrated Earth system through the support of basic research in the atmospheric,
  earth and ocean sciences. Major objectives include the discovery of new
  knowledge of the atmosphere from the sun to the Earth's surface over the entire
  spectrum of physical and chemical phenomena; a better understanding of the
  physical, chemical, and biological character of the Earth and the processes that
  govern its evolution; and increased insight into the world's oceans, their
  composition, structure, behavior, and tectonics. Support is also provided for
  science and technology centers, undergraduate Student research, facility
  enhancement, instrumentation, and laboratory equipment; and for research
  opportunities for women, minority, and disabled scientists and engineers.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
                                                                                   833
