USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Grant funds may be used for paying costs necessary to conduct research or             
  studies such as salaries and wages, permanent equipment and supplies, computer        
  services, travel, publication costs, and other direct and indirect costs. Primary     
  responsibility for general supervision of all grant activities rests with the grantee 
  institution; the principal investigator is responsible for the scientific work.       
  Funds may not be used for purposes other than those specified in the proposal.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Public and private colleges and universities; Non-profit, non-academic                
  organizations; For-profit organizations; State and Local Governments; and             
  unaffiliated scientists under special circumstances. See the Grant Proposal Guide     
  for a full description of eligibility requirements.                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  See the Grant Proposal Guide, Section I.E. for a full description of eligibility      
  requirements.                                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Proposals must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit the       
  institution or organization in business and financial affairs and who can commit      
  the organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be determined in      
  accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for colleges and universities and A-           
  122 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded from coverage under         
  OMB Circular No. A-87.                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  None required, but preliminary discussions with the relevant National Science         
  Foundation program officer are encouraged, particularly for projects requiring        
  logistic or facility support or involving coordination with other projects and        
  programs. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  By electronic submission via FastLane of a formal proposal describing the             
  research or study to be undertaken. Guidelines are contained in publication,          
  "Grant Proposal Guide," and "Guide to Programs Fiscal Year 2004," NSF 04-             
  009. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.             
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.                  
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  NSF staff members review and evaluate all proposals, usually with the assistance      
  and advice of other qualified scientists and other appropriate persons who are        
  specialists in the field covered by the proposal. Awards are made based on merit      
  and program relevance to the extent permitted by available funds. States will be      
  notified of Federal assistance awards through the Federal Assistance Awards           
  Data System (FAADS).                                                                  
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Many NSF programs accept proposals at any time. Other programs, however,              
  establish due dates for submission of proposals. NSF utilizes Target Dates,           
  Deadline Dates, and Submission Windows. Consult the Grant Proposal Guide,             
  Section I.F. for a further description of these types of due dates.                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  From 90 to 180 days.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                                
  The Principal Investigator whose proposal for support has been declined may           
  request, in writing, and receive from the cognizant program officer the reasons       
  for declination. The applicant may also obtain verbatim copies of reviews of          
  his/her proposals, though not the names of reviewers. If not satisfied, the           
  Principal Investigator may request the NSF Assistant Director for Geosciences to      
  reconsider the procedural aspects of the declination action. Request for              
  reconsideration must be received within 90 days of the declination letter.            
Renewals:                                                                               
  Standard grants may be renewed once by amendment of the original grant.               
  Proposals for renewal should be submitted 6 months prior to the expiration of         
  the original grant and should contain the same type of information as the             
  original proposal plus a summary of progress to date, a proposed budget for the       
  ensuing period, and a statement of expenditures to date and existing                  
  commitments that will require expenditure of residual funds from the original         
  grant after the requested renewal date. Renewals compete with other proposals         
  for available funds.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  The Grant Proposal Guide (GPG)(Chapter II) and the Grant Policy Manual (Sec.          
  330) provide additional information on the general NSF policy on cost-sharing.        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Normally 1 to 5 years.                                                                
Reports:                                                                                
  For all multi-year grants (including both standard and continuing grants), the PI     
  must submit an annual project report to the cognizant program office at least 90      
  days before the end of the current budget period. Within 90 days after the            
  expiration of a grant, the PI is required to submit a final project report. Quarterly 
  Federal Cash Transaction Reports are required. Other reporting requirements           
  may be imposed via the grant instrument.                                              
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June            
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           


834                                                                               11-08

  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to insure that
  funds are used for the general purpose for which the grant was made. Records
  are subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for three years
  thereafter.
Account Identification:
  49-0100-0-1-251.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $745,850,000; FY 08 est $752,660,000; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $1,000 to $60,000,000; $147,857.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 4,373 proposals were received and 1,347 awards were made,
  and in fiscal year 2008 approximately 4,500 proposals are expected to be
  received and approximately 1,400 awards will be made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  48 CFR Chapter 25; 45 CFR Chapter VI; "Guide to Programs, fiscal year 2004,"
  NSF 04-009 (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?nsf04009); "Grant Proposal
  Guide," (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?nsf0423). In addition, information
  is made available on the World Wide Web at http://www.nsf.gov/ and
  http://www.geo.nsf.gov/.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  National Science Foundation; 4201 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA 22230.
  Atmospheric Sciences: Dr. Jarvis Moyers, Telephone: (703) 292-8520; Fax:
  (703) 292-9022; Earth Sciences: Dr. Arthur Goldstein Telephone: (703) 292-
  8550; Fax: (703) 292-9025; Ocean Sciences: Dr. Julie Morris, Telephone: (703)
  292-8580; Fax (703) 292-9085.
Web Site Address:
  NSF World Wide Web site URL: http://nsf.gov/. Geosciences World Wide Web
  site URL: http://www.geo.nsf.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.417, Sea Grant Support; 11.430, Undersea Research; 47.041, Engineering
  Grants; 47.049, Mathematical and Physical Sciences; 47.070, Computer and
  Information Science and Engineering; 47.074, Biological Sciences; 47.075,
  Social, Behavioral, and Economic Sciences; 47.076, Education and Human
  Resources; 47.078, Polar Programs; 47.079, International Science and
  Engineering (OISE); 47.080, Office of Cyberinfrastructure.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Atmospheric Sciences: Research on meteorology, climate, paleoclimate,
  chemistry and physics of the lower and upper atmosphere; and solar-terrestrial
  relationships. Earth Sciences: Research on structure, composition, history, and
  the physical, chemical, and biological processes affecting the Earth. Ocean
  Sciences: Research on physical, chemical, geological, and biological processes
  in the ocean.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The National Science Board approved revised criteria for evaluating proposals at
  its meeting on March 28, 1997 (NSB 97-72). All NSF proposals are evaluated
  through use of the two merit review criteria. In some instances, however, NSF
  will employ additional criteria as required to highlight the specific objectives of
  certain programs and activities. On July 8, 2002, the NSF Director issued
  Important Notice 127, Implementation of new Grant Proposal Guide
  Requirements Related to the Broader Impacts Criterion. This Important Notice
  reinforces the importance of addressing both criteria in the preparation and
  review of all proposals submitted to NSF. NSF continues to strengthen its
  internal processes to ensure that both of the merit review criteria are addressed
  when making funding decisions. In an effort to increase compliance with these
  requirements, the January 2002 issuance of the GPG incorporated revised
  proposal preparation guidelines relating to the development of the Project
  Summary and Project Description. Chapter II of the GPG specifies that Principal
  Investigators (PIs) must address both merit review criteria in separate statements
  within the one-page Project Summary. This chapter also reiterates that broader
  impacts resulting from the proposed project must be addressed in the Project
  Description and described as an integral part of the narrative. Effective October
  1, 2002, NSF will return without review proposals that do not separately address
  both merit review criteria within the Project Summary. It is believed that these
  changes to NSF proposal preparation and processing guidelines will more clearly
  articulate the importance of broader impacts to NSF-funded projects. The two
  National Science Board approved merit review criteria are listed below (see the
  Grant Proposal Guide Chapter III.A for further information). The criteria include
  considerations that help define them. These considerations are suggestions and
  not all will apply to any given proposal. While proposers must address both
  merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked to address only those
  considerations that are relevant to the proposal being considered and for which
