  he/she is qualified to make judgements. What is the intellectual merit of the        
  proposed activity? How important is the proposed activity to advancing               
  knowledge and understanding within its own field or across different fields?         
  How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team) to conduct the project?      
  (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality of the prior work.) To     
  what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore creative and original     
  concepts? How well conceived and organized is the proposed activity? Is there        
  sufficient access to resources? What are the broader impacts of the proposed         
  activity? How well does the activity advance discovery and understanding while       
  promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well does the proposed activity      
  broaden the participation of underrepresented groups (e.g., gender, ethnicity,       
  disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it enhance the infrastructure for 
  research and education, such as facilities, instrumentation, networks, and           
  partnerships? Will the results be disseminated broadly to enhance scientific and     
  technological understanding? What may be the benefits of the proposed activity       
  to society? NSF staff will give careful consideration to the following in making     
  funding decisions: Integration of Research and Education. One of the principal       
  strategies in support of NSF's goals is to foster integration of research and        
  education through the programs, projects, and activities it supports at academic     
  and research institutions. These institutions provide abundant opportunities         
  where individuals may concurrently assume responsibilities as researchers,           
  educators, and students and where all can engage in joint efforts that infuse        
  education with the                                                                   
  excitementofdiscoveryandenrich research through the diversity of learning            
  perspectives. Integrating Diversity into NSF Programs, Projects, and Activities.     
  Broadening opportunities and enabling the participation of all citizens -- women     
  and men, underrepresented minorities, and persons with disabilities -- is            
  essential to the health and vitality of science and engineering. NSF is committed    
  to this principle of diversity and deems it central to the programs, projects, and   
  activities it considers and supports.                                                
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
47.070 COMPUTER AND INFORMATION SCIENCE AND                                            
ENGINEERING                                                                            
                                                                                       
   (CISE)                                                                              
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                       
  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42

                                                                                       
  U.S.C. 1861 et seq.

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                       
  To support investigator-initiated research in all areas of computer science and

                                                                                       
  engineering and related fields and contribute to the education and training of

                                                                                       
  future generations of computing professionals, ensuring a supply of qualified

                                                                                       
  technical personnel commensurate with national needs.                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds may be used to pay costs of conducting research, and obtaining access to

                                                                                       
  advanced computing and networking capabilities, salaries and wages, equipment        
  and supplies, travel, publication costs, other direct costs, and indirect costs.     
  Funds may not be used for purposes other than those specified in the proposal.       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Public and private colleges and universities; Non-profit, non-academic               
  organizations; For-profit organizations; State and Local Governments; and            
  unaffiliated scientists under special circumstances. See the Grant Proposal Guide    
  for a full description of eligibility requirements.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  See the Grant Proposal Guide, Section I.E. for a full description of eligibility     
  requirements.                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  The proposal must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit       
  the institution or organization in business and financial affairs and who can        
  commit the organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be            
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for educational                 
  institutions and A-122 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded         
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None required, except in specific cases, but preliminary discussions with            
  relevant National Science Foundation program officers, by email, telephone or        
  mail, are encouraged. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.              
  12372.                                                                               
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Proposals must be submitted electronically via FastLane to the Computer and          
  Information Science and Engineering Directorate and should follow the general        
  instructions and guidelines in the "Grant Proposal Guide." All proposals are         
  acknowledged. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No.          
  A-110 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded from coverage            
  under OMB Circular No. A-102.



                                                                                  11-08
Award Procedure:
  NSF staff members review and evaluate all proposals, with the advice and
  assistance: of scientists and engineers who are specialists in the field covered by
  the proposal, of prospective users of research results when appropriate, and of
  specialists in other Federal agencies.
Deadlines:
  Many NSF programs accept proposals at any time. Other programs, however,
  establish due dates for submission of proposals. NSF utilizes Target Dates,
  Deadline Dates, and Submission Windows. Consult the Grant Proposal Guide,
  Section I.F. for a further description of these types of due dates. The Directorate
  website lists funding opportunities at: http://www.cise.nsf.gov/.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 6 months or less, except in special instances.
Appeals:
  The Principal Investigator may request, in writing, that the National Science
  Foundation reconsider its action in declining any proposal application, renewal
  application, or continuing application.
Renewals:
  Proposals for renewal of NSF grants compete with all other pending proposals.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Grant Proposal Guide (GPG) (Chapter II) and the Grant Policy Manual (Sec.
  330) provide information on the general NSF policy on cost-sharing.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Normally 6 months to 3 years; occasionally longer.
Reports:
  For all multi-year grants (including both standard and continuing grants), the PI
  must submit an annual project report to the cognizant program officer at least 90
  days before the end of the current budget period. Within 90 days after the
  expiration of a grant, the PI is required to submit a final project report. Quarterly
  Federal Cash Transaction Reports are required. Other reporting requirements
  may be imposed via the grant instrument.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that
  funds are used for the general purpose for which each grant was made. Records
  are subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for 3 years thereafter.
Account Identification:
  49-0100-0-1-251.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $526,680,000; FY 08 est $534,530,000; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $2,000 to $19,000,000; $136,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 5,745 proposals were received and 1,633 awards were
  made. In fiscal year 2008, we estimate approximately 7,400 proposals will be
  received and approximately 1,635 awards will be made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  48 CFR Chapter 25: 45 CFR Chapter VI; "NSF Guide to Programs, fiscal year
  2004," NSF 04-009 (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?nsf04009); and "Grant
  Proposal Guide," (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?nsf0423).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Director, Computer and Information Science and Engineering,
  National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA 22230.
  Telephone: (703) 292-8900. NSF World Wide Web site URL:
  http://www.cise.nsf.gov/.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cise.nsf.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  47.041, Engineering Grants; 47.049, Mathematical and Physical Sciences;
  47.050, Geosciences; 47.074, Biological Sciences; 47.075, Social, Behavioral,
  and Economic Sciences; 47.076, Education and Human Resources; 47.078,
  Polar Programs; 47.079, International Science and Engineering (OISE); 47.080,
  Office of Cyberinfrastructure.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Cooperative Steady-Hand Augmentation of Human Skill in
  Micromanipulation Tasks: The primary focus of this research is on development
  of a cooperatively controlled 'steady hand' robot for microsurgery and other fine
  manipulation tasks, research exploring and extending the steady hand paradigm,
  and application of the system for prototypical microsurgical tasks in areas such
  as ophthalmology and otology. Researchers at John Hopkins University have
                                                                                     835
