  conceived of and begun prototyping a new class of highly dexterous robotic           
  devices suitable for minimally-invasive microsurgical procedures in the throat       
  and airways, as well as for other precise, multi-handed tasks in confined spaces.    
  The mechanical architecture of these robots consists of a snake-like unit and a      
  modular detachable parallel unit that attaches at the tip of the snake-like unit.    
  The snake-like unit uses a novel design utilizing multiple continuous backbones      
  for its actuation. The parallel manipulation unit uses flexible links to accurately  
  manipulate the payload in a small workspace and eliminates the need for small        
  mechanical joints. All these features support the down-size scalability of these     
  designs to diameters smaller than 5 mm - a critical dimension beyond which           
  standard designs of snake-like units and parallel robots for payload manipulation    
  becomes extremely expensive and mechanically complicated. These smaller              
  diameters are needed for many surgical applications. (2) ITR: Learning-Centered      
  Design Methodology: Meeting the Nation's Need for Computational Tools for K-         
  12 Science Education (Engineering Scaffolded Work Environments): The                 
  University of Michigan's Center for Highly-Interactive Computing in Education        
  (HI-CE) has designed, classroom-tested, and has freely-distributed a suite of        
  educational applications for handheld computers through ITR funding. They            
  have recorded over 100,000 downloads of this software over the past two years.       
  Of the 12 educational applications ranked by eSchool News, nine were produced        
  under ITR funding at HI-CE. In effect, HI-CE software enables educators to take      
  handheld computers designed for business and repurpose them for use in K-12.         
  Under supplemental Research Experiences for Teachers (RET) funding, HI-CE            
  investigators have worked with over a dozen K-12 teachers across the country to      
  develop curricular materials that provide science and math teachers with             
  concrete ways in which to use HI-CE's software on handheld computers. The            
  group has produced two International Society for Technology in Education             
  (ISTE) published books with two more books in press for 2004. Moreover, HI-          
  CE software is used in the curricular examples in many books published for K-        
  12 about handheld computers. From basic research to commercialization, with          
  nationwide, free distribution in between, this effort has demonstrated how a         
  University-based project can "fill the pipeline" with cutting-edge, provocative      
  technology. (3) Cardiovascular Informatics: Sudden heart attacks remain the          
  leading cause of death in the US. Since the majority of sudden cardiac deaths        
  occur in people with no prior symptoms, there is an urgent need for                  
  computational tools to assist in screening for the conditions that underlie these    
  cardiac events. Researchers at the University of Houston are developing              
  advanced computer vision technology for a variety of applications, including         
  assisting with the diagnosis of coronary heart disease. Patients who already         
  present risk factors undergo an intravascular ultrasound procedure that is           
  capable of analyzing in detail any plaques present in coronary blood vessels. In     
  particular, those plaques that are considered vulnerable (i.e., likely to rupture    
  and cause a heart attack) have been found to encourage the growth of new             
  microvessels in their vicinity. These microvessels are small vessels and are         
  generally difficult to detect. However, using the contrast-enhanced intravascular    
  ultrasound acquisition                                                               
  techniquedeveloped by researchers at the University of Houston, evidence of          
  their presence can be detected. (4) Recovery Oriented Computing: The time            
  required to restart a system after failure continues to be a major concern for       
  systems that must be continuously available. Safety-critical systems are             
  particularly affected by a lengthy interval for recovery and restart. In an          
  innovative NSF CAREER research project, Armando Fox, Assistant Professor,            
  Stanford University, earned recognition as one of Scientific American                
  magazine's 50 outstanding young scientists for 2003. Dr. Fox has generalized a       
  concept of "recovery through rebooting" to "micro-reboot" individual                 
  components of existing applications, significantly improving their availability      
  with no application changes and no a priori knowledge of application structure.      
  Dr. Fox successfully demonstrated that a technique called "statistical-anomaly       
  based failure detection" finds and localizes faults in these applications. While     
  traditional techniques typically leave systems in unpredictable states, this         
  research pursues a new design philosophy called Crash-Only Software. A crash-        
  only system or component can be safely and predictably crashed at any time           
  using mechanisms orthogonal to the component itself, allowing rebooting to be        
  safely used as a recovery mechanism from many fault types. The ultimate goal is      
  self-managing systems technology for future reliable distributed systems. (5)        
  Data Mining for Detecting Network Intrusions: Novel data mining based                
  anomaly detection techniques developed under NSF support have been                   
  incorporated in the Minnesota Intrusion Detection System (MINDS) that help           
  cybersecurity analysts detect intrusions and other undesirable activity in real life 
  networks. MINDS is being used at the Army Research Laboratory (ARL) Center           
  for Intrusion Monitoring and Protection (CIMP) and at the University of              
  Minnesota to successfully detect novel intrusions, policy violations, and insider    
  abuse that cannot be identified by widely used signature-based tools such as         
  Snort. MINDS allows cybersecurity experts to quickly analyze massive amounts         
  of network traffic, as they only need to evaluate the most anomalous connections     
  identified by the system. Further summarization of these anomalous connections       
  using association pattern analysis helps in understanding the nature of cyber

  attacks, as well as in creating new signatures for use in intrusion detection        
  systems. The underlying techniques have applicability in many areas beyond

                                                                                       
836                                                                              11-08

  cybersecurity, such as financial and health care fraud detection. 6) New System
  Up and Running: Nearly half of PSC's brand new XT3 "Red Storm" system,
  more than 1,000 processors mustering roughly five teraflops of capability, was
  installed and humming in PSC's machine room in time to bring in 2005. This is
  the first installed system of the Cray, Inc. XT3 product line, which Cray
  announced in October 2004. The XT3 architecture is based on the "Red Storm"
  system developed at the Sandia National Laboratories. The PSC system will
  soon provide 10 teraflops of capability for NSF science and engineering research
  and education. Applications already running on the new system include storm
  forecasting, earthquake modeling, quantum chromodynamics, cosmology and
  numerical relativity. A quantum materials science application, LSMS, shows
  per-processor performance on the XT3 more than twice that of LeMieux, PSC's
  existing terascale computer system. Other application areas expected to benefit
  significantly from the PSC XT3 system include molecular dynamics modeling of
  complex biological systems, modeling of cellular microphysiology, fluid
  dynamics and turbulence, blood flow, climate modeling, and network simulation
  and modeling.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The National Science Board approved revised criteria for evaluating proposals at
  its meeting on March 28, 1997 (NSB 97-72). All NSF proposals are evaluated
  through use of the two merit review criteria. In some instances, however, NSF
  will employ additional criteria as required to highlight the specific objectives of
  certain programs and activities. On July 8, 2002, the NSF Director issued
  Important Notice 127, Implementation of new Grant Proposal Guide
  Requirements Related to the Broader Impacts Criterion. This Important Notice
  reinforces the importance of addressing both criteria in the preparation and
  review of all proposals submitted to NSF. NSF continues to strengthen its
  internal processes to ensure that both of the merit review criteria are addressed
  when making funding decisions. In an effort to increase compliance with these
  requirements, the January 2002 issuance of the GPG incorporated revised
  proposal preparation guidelines relating to the development of the Project
  Summary and Project Description. Chapter II of the GPG specifies that Principal
  Investigators (PIs) must address both merit review criteria in separate statements
  within the one-page Project Summary. This chapter also reiterates that broader
  impacts resulting from the proposed project must be addressed in the Project
  Description and described as an integral part of the narrative. Effective October
  1, 2002, NSF will return without review proposals that do not separately address
  both merit review criteria within the Project Summary. It is believed that these
  changes to NSF proposal preparation and processing guidelines will more clearly
  articulate the importance of broader impacts to NSF-funded projects. The two
  National Science Board approved merit review criteria are listed below (see the
  Grant Proposal Guide Chapter III.A for further information). The criteria include
  considerations that help define them. These considerations are suggestions and
  not all will apply to any given proposal. While proposers must address both
  merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked to address only those
  considerations that are relevant to the proposal being considered and for which
  he/she is qualified to make judgments. What is the intellectual merit of the
  proposed activity? How important is the proposed activity to advancing
  knowledge and understanding within its own field or across different fields?
  How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team) to conduct the project?
  (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality of the prior work.) To
  what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore creative and original
  concepts? How well conceived and organized is the proposed activity? Is there
  sufficient access to resources? What are the broader impacts of the proposed
  activity? How well does the activity advance discovery and understanding while
  promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well does the proposed activity
  broaden the participation of underrepresented groups (e.g., gender, ethnicity,
  disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it enhance the infrastructure for
  research and education, such as facilities, instrumentation, networks, and
  partnerships? Will the results be disseminated broadly to enhance scientific and
  technological understanding? What may be the benefits of the proposed activity
  to society NSF staff will give careful consideration to the following in making
  funding decisions: Integration of Research and Education. One of the principal
  strategies in support of NSF's goals is to foster integration of research and
  education through the programs, projects, and activities it supports at academic
  and research institutions. These institutions provide abundant opportunities
  where individuals may concurrently assume responsibilities as researchers,
  educators, and students and where all can engage in joint efforts that infuse
  education with the excitement of
  discoveryandenrich research through the diversity of learning perspectives.
  Integrating Diversity into NSF Programs, Projects, and Activities. Broadening
  opportunities and enabling the participation of all citizens -- women and men,
  underrepresented minorities, and persons with disabilities -- is essential to the
  health and vitality of science and engineering. NSF is committed to this
  principle of diversity and deems it central to the programs, projects, and
  activities it considers and supports.
47.074 BIOLOGICAL SCIENCES
   (BIO)
