                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42          
  U.S.C. 1861 et seq.                                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To promote the progress of the biological sciences and thereby strengthen the        
  Nation's scientific enterprise; to increase scientific knowledge and enhance         
  understanding of major problems confronting the Nation. Most of the research         
  supported is basic in character. The program includes support of research project    
  grants in the following disciplines: molecular and cellular biosciences,             
  integrative organismal biology; environmental biology; biological infrastructure;    
  and plant genome research. Support is also provided for the purchase of multi-       
  user scientific equipment and instrument development, and for research               
  workshops, symposia, and conferences. In addition, awards are made to improve        
  the quality of doctoral dissertations in environmental biology and integrative       
  organismal biology; for postdoctoral fellowships in biological informatics and       
  postdoctoral fellowships to minority scientists in all areas of research supported   
  by the biological sciences.                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grant funds may be used for paying costs necessary to conduct research or            
  studies such as salaries and wages, permanent equipment, expendable materials        
  and supplies, travel, publication costs, and other direct and indirect costs.        
  Primary responsibility for general supervision of all grant activities rests with the
  grantee institution; the principal investigator is responsible for the scientific    
  work. Funds may not be used for purposes other than those specified in the           
  proposal.                                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Public and private colleges and universities; Non-profit, non-academic               
  organizations; For-profit organizations; State and Local Governments; and            
  unaffiliated scientists under special circumstances. See the Grant Proposal Guide    
  for a full description of eligibility requirements.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  See the Grant Proposal Guide, Section I.E. for a full description of eligibility     
  requirements.                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Proposals must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit the      
  institution or organization in business and financial affairs and who can commit     
  the organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be determined in     
  accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for colleges and universities and A-          
  122 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded from coverage OMB          
  Circular No. A-87.                                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  By electronic submission via FastLane of a formal proposal describing the            
  research or study to be undertaken. Guidelines are contained in publications,        
  "Grant Proposal Guide." This program is subject to the provisions of coverage        
  under OMB Circular No. A-102.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  NSF staff members review and evaluate all proposals generally with the               
  assistance and advice of other qualified scientists and other appropriate persons    
  who are specialists in the field covered by the proposal. Proposals are accepted     
  in order of merit to the extent permitted by available funds. States will be         
  notified of Federal assistance awards through the Federal Assistance Awards          
  Data System (FAADS).                                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Many NSF programs accept proposals at any time. Other programs, however,             
  establish due dates for submission of proposals. NSF utilizes Target Dates,          
  Deadline Dates, and Submission Windows. Consult the Grant Proposal Guide,            
  Section I.F. for a further description of these types of due dates.                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  6 months.                                                                            
Appeals:                                                                               
  The principal investigator may request, in writing, that the Foundation              
  reconsider its action in declining any application.                                  
Renewals:                                                                              
  Proposals for renewal, containing the same type of information as the original       
  proposal, should be submitted 6 to 9 months before funding from the current          
  award is expected to be exhausted, renewals are treated in competition with all      
  other pending proposals.                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Cost-sharing is not required for awards made solely for symposia, conferences        
  and workshops, publication, education and training, or travel. The Grant             
  Proposal Guide (GPG) (Chapter II) and the Grant Policy Manual (Sec. 330)             
  provide additional information on the general NSF policy on cost sharing.            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 


                                                                                  11-08
  Up to 5 years.
Reports:
  For all multi-year grants (including both standard and continuing grants), the PI
  must submit an annual project report to the cognizant program office at least 90
  days before the end of the current budget period. Within 90 days after the
  expiration of a grant, the PI is required to submit a final project report. Quarterly
  Federal Cash Transaction Reports are required. Other reporting requirements
  may be imposed via the grant instrument.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to insure that
  funds are used for the general purpose for which the grant was made. Records
  are subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for 3 years thereafter.
Account Identification:
  49-0100-0-1-251.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $608,540,000; FY 08 est $612,020,000; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $2,000 to $12,389,000; $184,040.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 6,726 proposals were received and 1,303 awards were made.
  In fiscal year 2008, approximately 7,000 proposals are expected to be received
  and 1,250 awards will be made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  48 CFR Chapter 25; 45 CFR Chapter VI; "Grant Proposal Guide,"
  (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?nsf0423).
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Director, Biological Sciences, National Science Foundation, 4201
  Wilson Blvd., Arlington, VA 22230. Telephone: (703)292-8400. NSF World
  Wide Web site URL: http://www.nsf.gov/.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nsf.gov/bio/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.206, Grants for Agricultural Research_Competitive Research Grants; 47.041,
  Engineering Grants; 47.049, Mathematical and Physical Sciences; 47.070,
  Computer and Information Science and Engineering; 47.079, International
  Science and Engineering (OISE); 47.080, Office of Cyberinfrastructure; 93.281,
  Mental Health Research Career/Scientist Development Awards.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  1) BioLit: Open Source Tools for Integrating Biological Literature and
  Databases. (2) Potential for the Recovery of Biogeochemical Function in
  Degraded Stream Ecosystems. (3) Evolution of Cavefish Eye Degeneration. (4)
  Sequencing the Maize Genome. (5) The Energy Landscapes of Protein Folding
  and Function: Connecting Theory and Experiments. (6) The Emergence of Life:
  From Geochemistry to the Genetic Code.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The National Science Board approved revised criteria for evaluating proposals at
  its meeting on March 28, 1997 (NSB 97-72). All NSF proposals are evaluated
  through use of the two merit review criteria. In some instances, however, NSF
  will employ additional criteria as required to highlight the specific objectives of
  certain programs and activities. On July 8, 2002, the NSF Director issued
  Important Notice 127, Implementation of new Grant Proposal Guide
  Requirements Related to the Broader Impacts Criterion. This Important Notice
  reinforces the importance of addressing both criteria in the preparation and
  review of all proposals submitted to NSF. NSF continues to strengthen its
  internal processes to ensure that both of the merit review criteria are addressed
  when making funding decisions. In an effort to increase compliance with these
  requirements, the January 2002 issuance of the GPG incorporated revised
  proposal preparation guidelines relating to the development of the Project
  Summary and Project Description. Chapter II of the GPG specifies that Principal
  Investigators (PIs) must address both merit review criteria in separate statements
  within the one-page Project Summary. This chapter also reiterates that broader
  impacts resulting from the proposed project must be addressed in the Project
  Description and described as an integral part of the narrative. Effective October
  1, 2002, NSF will return without review proposals that do not separately address
  both merit review criteria within the Project Summary. It is believed that these
  changes to NSF proposal preparation and processing guidelines will more clearly
  articulate the importance of broader impacts to NSF-funded projects. The two
  National Science Board approved merit review criteria are listed below (see the
  Grant Proposal Guide Chapter III.A for further information). The criteria include
                                                                                     837
