  considerations that help define them. These considerations are suggestions and        
  not all will apply to any given proposal. While proposers must address both           
  merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked to address only those                  
  considerations that are relevant to the proposal being considered and for which       
  he/she is qualified to make judgments. What is the intellectual merit of the          
  proposed activity? How important is the proposed activity to advancing                
  knowledge and understanding within its own field or across different fields?          
  How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team) to conduct the project?       
  (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality of the prior work.) To      
  what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore creative and original      
  concepts? How well conceived and organized is the proposed activity? Is there         
  sufficient access to resources? What are the broader impacts of the proposed          
  activity? How well does the activity advance discovery and understanding while        
  promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well does the proposed activity       
  broaden the participation of underrepresented groups (e.g., gender, ethnicity,        
  disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it enhance the infrastructure for  
  research and education, such as facilities, instrumentation, networks, and            
  partnerships? Will the results be disseminated broadly to enhance scientific and      
  technological understanding? What may be the benefits of the proposed activity        
  to society? NSF staff will give careful consideration to the following in making      
  funding decisions: Integration of Research and Education. One of the principal        
  strategies in support of NSF's goals is to foster integration of research and         
  education through the programs, projects, and activities it supports at academic      
  and research institutions. These institutions provide abundant opportunities          
  where individuals may concurrently assume responsibilities as researchers,            
  educators, and students and where all can engage in joint efforts that infuse         
  education with the excitement                                                         
  ofdiscoveryandenrich research through the diversity of learning perspectives.         
  Integrating Diversity into NSF Programs, Projects, and Activities. Broadening         
  opportunities and enabling the participation of all citizens -- women and men,        
  underrepresented minorities, and persons with disabilities -- is essential to the     
  health and vitality of science and engineering. NSF is committed to this              
  principle of diversity and deems it central to the programs, projects, and            
  activities it considers and supports.                                                 
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
47.075 SOCIAL, BEHAVIORAL, AND ECONOMIC                                                 
SCIENCES                                                                                
                                                                                        
      (SBE)

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                        
  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION

AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42           
  U.S.C 1861 et seq.                                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To contribute to the scientific strength and welfare of the Nation through the        
  promotion of basic research and education in the social, behavioral and               
  economic sciences and through monitoring and understanding the resources              
  invested in science and engineering in the United States. Supported activities        
  include research and education in the following disciplines: Anthropological and      
  geographic sciences; cognitive, psychological and language sciences;                  
  economics, decision risk and management sciences; sociology, political                
                                                                                        
  sciences; innovation and organizational change, measurement methods and

                                                                                        
  statistics, law and social science and science and society. Other SBE grants

                                                                                        
  build infrastructure, and develop methods, support science and technology

                                                                                        
  centers, including climate change and science of learning centers, and fund

                                                                                        
  research workshops, symposia, and conferences. Educational activities include

                                                                                        
  awards to improve the quality of doctoral dissertations in the behavioral and

                                                                                        
  social sciences; grants for graduate traineeships and postdoctoral fellowships;

                                                                                        
  and grants to promote K-12 education in the SBE sciences. Support is also

                                                                                        
  provided for junior faculty and mid-career development opportunities,

                                                                                        
  undergraduate student research, and for research opportunities for women,

                                                                                        
  minorities, and the differentially abled. The Directorate also funds science

                                                                                        
  studies; studies of scientists and engineers, R&D funding and expenditures, and

                                                                                        
  educational attainment in science, mathematics and engineering.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                        
  Project Grants.

                                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                        
  Programs in social, behavioral and economic sciences and in science resources

  statistics provide funds that may be used for paying costs necessary to conduct       
                                                                                        
  research or studies, such as salaries and wages, equipment and supplies, travel,

                                                                                        
  publication costs, and other direct and indirect costs. Primary responsibility for

                                                                                        
  the supervision of grant activities rests with the grantee institution; the project

                                                                                        
  director or principal investigator is responsible for the execution of the research

                                                                                        
  activities, as well as for submitting progress and final reports on research

                                                                                        
  activities. Grants are made on a competitive basis. Funds must be used for            
  purposes specified in the proposal.                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Public and private colleges and universities; Non-profit, non-academic

838                                                                               11-08

  organizations; For-profit organizations; State and Local Governments; and
  unaffiliated scientists under special circumstances. See the Grant Proposal Guide
  for a full description of eligibility requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  See the Grant Proposal Guide, Section I.E. for a full description of eligibility
  requirements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposals must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit the
  institution or organization in business and financial affairs and who can commit
  the organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for colleges and universities and A-
  122 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded from coverage under
  OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  For some competitions, a preliminary proposal may be required. If applicable,
  the program solicitation will provide specific information. For all programs it is
  suggested that an initial inquiry be made before a proposal is submitted to
  determine whether a potential project qualifies for NSF support. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Project support requires the submission of a formal proposal, signed
  electronically by an official authorized to commit the institution or organization
  in financial affairs, fully documenting the planned activity and proposed amount
  of award. Guidelines are contained in publications, "Grant Proposal Guide," and
  "2004 Guide to Programs," NSF 04-009. This program is subject to the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  NSF staff members review and evaluate all proposals. To assist them, they
  usually obtain the advice of scientists and engineers who are specialists in the
  field covered by the proposal. Proposals are supported on the basis of merit to
  the extent permitted by available funds.
Deadlines:
  Many NSF programs accept proposals at any time. Other programs, however,
  establish due dates for submission of proposals. NSF utilizes Target Dates,
  Deadline Dates, and Submission Windows. Consult the Grant Proposal Guide,
  Section I.F. for a further description of these types of due dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The normal duration is from 5 to 9 months with most decisions being made
  within six months.
Appeals:
  The project director or principal investigator may request, in writing, that the
  Foundation reconsider its action in declining any proposal, renewal, or
  continuing grant proposal.
Renewals:
  Proposals for renewal of awards, containing the same type of information as the
  original proposal, should be submitted 6 to 9 months before the expiration of the
  original award. Renewals are treated in competition with pending proposals.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Cost sharing is normally not required. The Grant Proposal Guide (GPG)(Sec. II)
  and the Grant Policy Manual (Sec. 330) provide additional information on the
  general NSF policy on cost-sharing.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 5 years.
Reports:
  For all multi-year grants (including both standard and continuing grants), the PI
  must submit an annual project report to the cognizant program office at least 90
  days before the end of the current budget period. Within 90 days after the
  expiration of a grant, the PI is required to submit a final project report. For travel
  grants, a travel report is required. Quarterly Federal Cash Transaction Reports
  are required. Other reporting requirements may be imposed via the grant
  instrument.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each award to ensure that
  funds are used for the general purpose for which the award was made. Records
  are subject to inspection during the life of the award and for 3 years thereafter.
Account Identification:
  49-0100-0-1-251.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $214,540,000; FY 08 est $215,130,000; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
