  $1,100 to $4,980,000; $85,395.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In fiscal year 2007, 4,284 competitive proposals were received and 1,143 awards   
  were made, and in fiscal year 2008 approximately 4,250 competitive proposals      
  are expected to be received and about 1,148 awards will be made.                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  48 CFR Chapter 25; 45 CFR Chapter VI; "2004 Guide to Programs," NSF 04-           
  009 (http://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=nsf04009); and          
  "Grant Proposal Guide,"                                                           
  (http://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=nsf0423&org=NSF).           
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Directorate for Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences, National Science        
  Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd., Suite 905, Arlington, VA 22230. Telephone:         
  (703) 292-8700. Division of Science Resources Statistics, National Science        
  Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd., Suite 965, Arlington, VA 22230. Telephone:         
  (703) 292-8780. http://www.nsf.gov/sbe/srs. Division of Social and Economic       
  Sciences, National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd., Suite 995,              
  Arlington, VA 22230. Telephone: (703) 292-8760. http://www.nsf.gov/sbe/ses.       
  Division of Behavioral and Cognitive Sciences, National Science Foundation,       
  4201 Wilson Blvd., Suite 995, Arlington, VA 22230. Telephone: (703) 292-          
  8740. http://www.nsf.gov/sbe/bcs.                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.nsf.gov .                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  47.041, Engineering Grants; 47.049, Mathematical and Physical Sciences;           
  47.070, Computer and Information Science and Engineering; 47.074, Biological      
  Sciences; 47.050, Geosciences; 47.076, Education and Human Resources;             
  47.078, Polar Programs; 47.079, International Science and Engineering (OISE);     
  47.080, Office of Cyberinfrastructure.                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Topics of recently funded research include: brain activity associated with truth

  and deception; the influence of fear on perceptions and decision making;          
  network modeling; rebuilding from disasters; and the effects of terrorist assaults
  and natural disasters on people removed from physical harm but emotionally

  engaged with those who have directly suffered. With major support from the        
  SBE-managed Human and Social Dynamics priority area and SBE's core                
  programs, NSF recently announced new Small Grants for Exploratory Research        
  (SGER) awards to study the impact of Hurricane Katrina on people and social       
  systems in the hard-hit Gulf Coast region. SGER awards are limited in size and    
  support exploratory, high-risk research and have proven to be especially well-    
  suited for rapid-response situations in which the need for timely response is     
  crucial in order to capture time-sensitive and perishable data. SBE previously    
  used SGERs effectively to field research teams in the aftermath of both the       
  September 11th terrorist attacks and the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. Other         
  recently funded projects investigate the human dimensions of ecological issues    
  such as climate change and the social and ethical issues that surround advances   
  in nanotechnology. SBE also provides statistical data for critical analyses of the
  role of foreign citizens in the U.S. science and engineering workforce. In        
  addition, SBE awards foster the development of new information technology         
  systems and software, the sharing of data within and across disciplines, the      
  development of new social research infrastructures, and education at all levels in
  the SBE sciences.                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  The National Science Board approved revised criteria for evaluating proposals     
  on March 28, 1997 (NSB 97-72). All NSF proposals are evaluated through use        
  of two merit review criteria: Intellectual Merit and Broader Impacts (see Grant   
  Proposal Guide (GPG) chapter III.A). In some instances NSF will employ            
  additional criteria as required to highlight the specific objectives of certain   
  programs and activities. On July 8, 2002, the NSF Director issued Important       
  Notice 127, Implementation of new Grant Proposal Guide Requirements Related       
  to the Broader Impacts Criterion. This Important Notice reinforces the            
  importance of addressing both criteria in the preparation and review of all       
  proposals submitted to NSF. Chapter II of the GPG specifies that Principal        
  Investigators must address both merit review criteria in separate statements      
  within the one-page Project Summary. This chapter also reiterates that broader    
  impacts resulting from the proposed project must be addressed in the Project      
  Description and described as an integral part of the narrative. Effective October 
  1, 2002, NSF will return without review proposals that do not separately address  
  both merit review criteria within the Project Summary. While proposers must       
  respond to both merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked to address only    
  those considerations that are relevant to the proposal being considered and for   
  which they are qualified to make judgments. Below are considerations that help    
  define the two merit review criteria. These considerations are suggestions; not   
  all will apply to any given proposal. (1) What is the intellectual merit of the   
  proposed activity? How important is the proposed activity to advancing            
  knowledge and understanding within its own field or across different fields?      
  How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team) to conduct the project?   
  (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality of the prior work.) To  


                                                                               11-08
  what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore creative and original
  concepts? How well conceived and organized is the proposed activity? Is there
  sufficient access to resources? (2) What are the broader impacts of the proposed
  activity? How well does the activity advance discovery and understanding while
  promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well does the proposed activity
  broaden the participation of underrepresented groups (e.g., gender, ethnicity,
  disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it enhance the infrastructure for
  research and education, such as facilities, instrumentation, networks, and
  partnerships? Will the results be disseminated broadly to enhance scientific and
  technological understanding? What may be the benefits of the proposed activity
  to society? Additionally, in making funding decisions NSF will also give
  careful consideration to integrating research and education, and integrating
  diversity into NSF programs. One of the principal strategies in support of NSF's
  goals is to foster integration of research and education through the programs,
  projects, and activities it supports at academic and research institutions. This
  supports these institutions in their efforts to provide abundant opportunities
  where individuals may concurrently assume responsibilities as researchers,
  educators, and students and where all can engage in joint efforts that infuse
  education with the excitement of discovery and enrich research through the
  diversity of learning perspectives. Broadening opportunities and enabling the
  participation of all citizens -- women and men, underrepresented minorities, and
  persons with disabilities -- is essential to the health and vitality of science and
  engineering. NSF is committed to this principle of diversity and deems it central
  to the programs, projects, and activities it considers and supports and enriches
  research through the diversity of learning perspectives. Integrating Diversity into
  NSF Programs,
  Projects,andActivities. Broadening opportunities and enabling the participation
  of all citizens -- women and men, underrepresented minorities, and persons with
  disabilities -- is essential to the health and vitality of science and engineering.
  NSF is committed to this principle of diversity and deems it central to the
  programs, projects, and activities it considers and supports.
47.076 EDUCATION AND HUMAN RESOURCES
   (EHR)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42
  U.S.C 1861 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide leadership and ensure the vitality of the Nation's science, technology,
  engineering and mathematics (STEM) education enterprise. The Education and
  Human Resources (EHR) component of the National Science Foundation
  sponsors programs that support the development of models and strategies for
  providing all students with access to high-quality STEM education. The
  portfolio of EHR programs in STEM education is comprised of efforts spanning
  pre-K to 12 (with special emphasis on projects that join institutions of higher
  education with K-12 education units), undergraduate, graduate and post-doctoral
  levels, as well as informal education and life-long learning. Long-term goals
  include: Supporting infrastructure (especially broad-based collaborative
  partnerships) that will enable development of high-quality educational
  experiences for all students; ensuring that our educational pathways yield an
  adequately educated and diverse corps of individuals for both the highly
  technical workplace and the professional STEM community; developing a cadre
  of professionally educated and well-trained teachers and faculty; and providing
  the research necessary to inform educational practice. The strength of EHR
  programming resides in its ability to integrate research and education,
  combining the expertise of the research and education communities. Its
  programs include support for STEM workforce development; educational
  materials, including use of learning technologies, effective in increasing student
  achievement; research on learning and teaching that informs education practice;
  strategies for developing deep content knowledge and teaching skills for K-12
  teachers; and informal science education. The EHR activity also sponsors
  projects under the Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research
  (EPSCoR) program, which builds the capacity of participating states to compete
  successfully for Federal research funding. EHR programs are subject to
  continuous improvements based on program reviews, evaluation, dissemination
  of best practices, and educational research.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds may be used for costs necessary to conduct research, educational
  activities or studies, including salaries and expenses, permanent equipment,
  expendable materials and supplies, travel, publication costs, and other direct and
  indirect costs. Some programs provide funds for undergraduate scholarships
  managed by the awardee institution. Primary responsibility for general
  supervision of all grant activities rests with the grantee institution. Funds may
  not be used for purposes other than those specified in the award. Graduate
                                                                                     839
