  fellowships provide for stipends and allowances to be paid to the awardee             
  through his/her institution; a fixed cost-of-education allowance is paid directly     
  to the institution.                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Graduate students, public and private colleges (2-year and 4-year) and                
  universities, State and local education agencies, tribal entities, nonprofit and      
  private organizations, professional societies, science academies and centers,         
  science museums and zoological parks, other informal science education                
  institutions, research laboratories, and other institutions with an educational       
  mission may apply.                                                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Elementary, secondary and undergraduate science, technology, engineering, and         
  mathematics teachers and faculty; preK-12, undergraduate and graduate                 
  students; public and private colleges (2-year and 4-year) and universities; State     
  and local educational agencies; tribal entities, nonprofit and private                
  organizations; professional societies; science academies and centers; science         
  museums and zoological parks; other informal science education institutions,          
  research laboratories, and other institutions with an educational mission.            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Proposals must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit the       
  institution or organization in business and financial affairs and who can commit      
  the organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be determined in      
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for colleges and universities, No. A-87         
  for State and local governments, and No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations.           
  Applicants for fellowship support must show evidence of ability such as               
  academic records, letters of recommendation, graduate record examination              
  scores, and grade point average.                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  In selected areas, discussion with NSF program staff is strongly recommended          
  and/or submission of a preliminary proposal is required before submitting formal      
  proposals. Other areas are eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                    
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." A proposer should consult the         
  office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her state for  
  more information on the process that the state requires to be followed in             
  applying for assistance, if the state has selected the program for review.            
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  By electronic submission via FastLane of a formal proposal, and, in some              
  programs, a preliminary proposal, describing the planned project and the              
  proposed amount of the grant. For guidelines, see specific funding opportunities      
  and the "Grant Proposal Guide."                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  NSF staff members review and evaluate all proposals based on a set of criteria        
  established by the National Science Board. In most cases reviews are                  
  undertaken with the advice of scientists, engineers, educators and other              
  appropriate persons who are specialists in the fields covered by the proposals.       
  External reviewers, who are conversant with the fields covered by the                 
  applications, review and evaluate all graduate fellowship applications. NSF           
  makes awards on a competitive basis.                                                  
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Many NSF programs accept proposals at any time. Other programs, however,              
  establish due dates for submission of proposals. NSF utilizes Target Dates,           
  Deadline Dates, and Submission Windows. Consult the Grant Proposal Guide,             
  Section I.F. for a further description of these types of due dates.                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  NSF is striving to be able to advise proposers whether their proposals have been      
  recommended or declined for funding within six months. The time interval              
  begins on the closing date of an announcement or solicitation, or the date of         
  proposal receipt (whichever is later). The time interval ends when the cognizant      
  NSF Division Director accepts the Program Officer's recommendation.                   
Appeals:                                                                                
  The principal investigator may request, in writing within 90 days of a                
  declination or return, that the Foundation reconsider its action in declining or      
  returning any proposal or application.                                                
Renewals:                                                                               
  Contact NSF program staff for specific renewal policies and procedures.               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Programs vary with regard to the required level of institutional contribution or      
  cost-sharing; requirements are provided in program announcements and                  
  solicitations. The Grant Proposal Guide (GPG)(Chapter II) and the Grant Policy        
  Manual (Sec. 330) provide additional information.                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Up to 5 years. For NSF Graduate Fellowships, up to 3 years of support.                
  Assistance is disbursed to the institution for monthly stipend allotment to the       
  fellow.                                                                               
Reports:                                                                                
  For all multi-year grants (including both standard and continuing grants), the PI     
  must submit an annual project report to the cognizant program office at least 90      
  days before the end of the current budget period. Within 90 days after the            
  expiration of a grant, the PI is required to submit a final project report. Quarterly 
  Federal Cash Transaction Reports are required. Other reporting requirements           


840                                                                               11-08

  may be imposed via the grant instrument.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that
  funds are used for the general purpose for which the grant was made. Records
  are subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for three years
  thereafter. Special record keeping requirements apply to fellowships.
Account Identification:
  49-0106-0-1-251.
Obligations:
  (Grants) (Excludes H-1B Nonimmigrant Petitioner Fees, EPSCoR) FY 07
  $695,650,000; FY 08 est $725,600,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $3,000 to $15,000,000; $255,472.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 4,249 proposals were received, and 904 awards were made.
  In fiscal year 2008, it is anticipated that approximately 4,550 proposals will be
  received and about 910 awards will be made. In addition, H-1B Nonimmigrant
  Petitioner scholarship activity made 133 awards to institutions in fiscal year
  2006, resulting in over 9,700 scholarship opportunities.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR Chapter VI; 48 CFR Chapter 25; "2004 NSF Guide to Programs," NSF
  04-009 (http://www.nsf.gov/pubsys/ods/getpub.cfm?gp); "Grant Proposal
  Guide," (http://www.nsf.gov/pubsys/ods/getpub.cfm?gpg).
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Director, Education and Human Resources, National Science
  Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd., Room 805 Arlington, VA 22230. Telephone:
  (703) 292-8600. NSF World Wide Web site URL:
  http://www.nsf.gov/dir/index.jsp?org=EHR .
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nsf.gov/dir/index.jsp?org=EHR .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  47.079, International Science and Engineering (OISE); 47.080, Office of
  Cyberinfrastructure; 84.120, Minority Science and Engineering Improvement;
  84.168, Eisenhower Professional Development_Federal Activities; 84.186, Safe
  and Drug-Free Schools and Communities_State Grants; 84.203, Star Schools.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  1) In a study conducted under a grant to the Educational Testing Service
  supported by EHR's Research on Learning and Education (ROLE) program,
  researchers and educators have successfully demonstrated a computer-based
  learning system for mathematics that can accommodate both visually impaired
  and sighted students. The system uses text enlargement on normal displays for
  low vision students, a Talking Tactile Tablet for blind students, and normal
  displays for fully sighted students. In addition, the system develops a model for
  each student's understanding of mathematical concepts, and then uses those
  models to provide problem-solving advice to students regardless of their visually
  acuity. The student models have been validated in a pilot test of 50 students, and
  the system is now being tested with over 300 blind, visually impaired, and fully
  sighted students. 2) Funded by EHR's Information Technology Experiences for
  Students and Teachers (ITEST) program, an innovative effort to demonstrate its
  capabilities is being developed by the Center for Embedded Networked Sensing
  Education (CENSei) at the University of California-Los Angeles. CENSei's
  web-supported curricular materials allow middle school students to explore
  scientific data collected from embedded sensor networks deployed in Southern
  California ecosystems. CENSei draws on the expertise of education researchers,
  natural scientists, information scientists, and teachers to overcome the
  challenges students face in using scientifically rich data. Their efforts
  investigate how a data rich sensor environment can become a learning
  environment with an appropriate interface and supports for student inquiry.
  CENSei capitalizes on NSF's investment in the Center for Embedded Network
  Sensing, a Science and Technology Center. 3) EHR's Informal Science
  Education (ISE) program supports Peep and the Big Wide World (PEEP), a
  daily, half-hour television series with accompanying web and outreach activities
  for 3- to 5-year-olds. PEEP gives wings to the innovative idea of teaching
  science to preschoolers. Airing on TLC and the Discovery Kids Channel, the
  TV series is tied for the top-rated program for children 2-5 in the weekday
  morning time block. The series is also reaching parents, providing them with
  information on how to extend their children's science learning in everyday
  situations. And PEEP is impacting the field of informal science education, as
  well, by giving preschool educators resources and training in how to nurture
  young children's science learning. PEEP is achieving this impact in part through
