its community of collaborators. Partners include educational organizations (e.g.,  
4-H, the National Education Association, Parents as Teachers), libraries           
(American Library Association), museums (via the Boston Children's Museum),        
and promotional media outlets. 4) The NSF Graduate Teaching Fellowships in         
K-12 Education (GK-12) program supports graduate students in STEM fields           
while providing them an opportunity to serve as resources in K-12 schools.         
Graduate Fellows at the University of Colorado Boulder taught engineering to       
more than 1,600 girls and boys through its integrated teaching and learning        
program. In the Denver School of Science and Technology, a high needs school,      
GK-12 Fellows initiated an engineering technical elective course. During fall      
2005 engineering lessons were developed on several topics, including weather,      
biodomes, dams, states of matter, the human body and natural disasters. 5) With    
a grant from the Integrative Graduate Education and Research Traineeships          
(IGERT) program, IGERT students at the University of Alaska, Fairbanks, are        
assessing the sustainability of high-latitude regions, and working to discover     
how to reduce the vulnerability of these regions to both ecological and social     
change. One of the students contributed to the polar chapter of the UNESCO-        
sponsored Millennium Assessment, which isinvestigating                             
the impacts of global change on human well-being. Four students worked with        
Native village councils or with the Alaska Native Science Commission to            
develop plans to assess changes in the subsistence resource base for Native        
Alaskans. 6) In December 2005, the National Science Digital Library (NSDL),        
in partnership with the Digital Library for Earth System Education (DLESE),        
offered free online professional development workshops to K-12 science and         
math teachers in hurricane-impacted schools, as well as to those teaching          
hurricane-displaced students. The workshops provided practical ideas for           
finding and using digital library resources, with a particular emphasis on         
strategies that are easy to implement in storm-stressed classrooms and in          
distance learning courses being offered to displaced students. 7) The state of     
North Carolina has experienced an increase in new STEM graduates as a result       
of EHR's Louis Stokes Alliances for Minority Participation (LSAMP) program.        
Led by North Carolina A&T State University, the NC-LSAMP is a partnership          
of eight North Carolina colleges and universities. The project increases the       
quantity and quality of underrepresented minority students receiving bachelor's    
degrees in STEM disciplines. The newly instituted "Bridge to the Doctorate"        
initiative is in high gear supporting graduate students in a broad range of science
and engineering disciplines. 8) Improving teacher quality in mathematics and       
science education, K-12, is a key goal of the Math and Science Partnership         
(MSP) program. Graduates of the Florida Atlantic University Teacher Institute,     
for example, will receive a master's degree that includes a newly developed        
strand for middle school mathematics teaching. MSP Summer Institutes respond       
to the differentiated needs of the teachers they serve. In its work with inservice 
teachers in central Appalachia, the Appalachian Mathematics and Science            
Partnership (AMSP), a Comprehensive Partnership, reports significant gains         
with teachers in the project's innovative 2005 summer Algebra Institutes. 9)       
Building on an earlier NSF-supported project at the Indiana University of          
Pennsylvania (which was funded by NSF's Course, Curriculum, and Laboratory         
Improvement (CCLI) program), educators at the University of Wisconsin, Eau         
Claire, have developed the Computational Laboratory for Information and            
Computer Security, or CLICS. Funded by NSF's Federal Cyber Service:                
Scholarship for Service (SFS) program, CLICS is a two day "cyber-war exercise"     
that gives undergraduate students hands-on experience with the issues,             
strategies, and tools involved in computer security and information assurance.     
The Cyber-war exercises involve students in real-world, team-based efforts to      
harden their systems, detect intrusions and respond in real time - without         
threatening the wider campus network. 10) With funding from EHR's Centers of       
Research Excellence in Science and Technology (CREST) the Florida                  
International University CREST Center has created TerraFly                         
(http://terrafly.fiu.edu), a Web-enabled system developed to aid in the            
visualization of spatial imagery, the first step toward building geospatial skills.
The system allows Web surfers to "fly" over the Earth's surface and explore        
spatial data such as aerial photography, satellite imagery, street maps, and locale
information. The web site is designed for users of all levels, from grade school to
university researchers. Unlike other geographic information systems, TerraFly      
runs via standard Web browsers, with no need to download software or data          
prior to visualization. This ease of use and accessibility is evidenced by the     
most recent user statistics that report over 10,000 hits a day. 11) The

Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive Research (EPSCoR) is funding         
the Quarked project which creates an entertaining multimedia experience about

quarks aimed at children ages 7-12, but accessible to all ages. The educational    
goals of the project areto introduce

quarks and the people who work with them into the common language of kids;         
investigate how young people are introduced to and grasp the scientific world of   
the unseen and abstract; and to demystify subatomic physics, while changing the    
perception that science is difficult and inaccessible. Developments include a      
half-hour animated TV series, an interactive web site (www.quarked.org),           
museum programs, and educational outreach activities. 12) With support from        
NSF's Robert Noyce Scholarship Program, Drexel University recruits science,        
engineering, and mathematics majors who are committed to teaching                  
                                                                                   


                                                                              11-08
  mathematics and science in the School District of Philadelphia. The program
  provides strong teacher preparation addressing content knowledge, pedagogical
  knowledge, learner knowledge and technology integration. Mentoring and
  induction activities provide support to the new teachers. To broaden the
  exposure of students to teaching, the Noyce Seminar Series provides a venue for
  Noyce Scholars to interact with teacher leaders, teacher scientists, and experts
  who are leaders in pedagogy, science and mathematics teaching or scientists
  with a penchant for teaching.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The National Science Board approved revised criteria for evaluating proposals at
  its meeting on March 28, 1997 (NSB 97-72). All NSF proposals are evaluated
  through use of the two merit review criteria. In some instances, however, NSF
  will employ additional criteria as required to highlight the specific objectives of
  certain programs and activities. On July 8, 2002, the NSF Director issued
  Important Notice 127, Implementation of new Grant Proposal Guide
  Requirements Related to the Broader Impacts Criterion. This Important Notice
  reinforces the importance of addressing both criteria in the preparation and
  review of all proposals submitted to NSF. NSF continues to strengthen its
  internal processes to ensure that both of the merit review criteria are addressed
  when making funding decisions. In an effort to increase compliance with these
  requirements, the January 2002 issuance of the GPG incorporated revised
  proposal preparation guidelines relating to the development of the Project
  Summary and Project Description. Chapter II of the GPG specifies that Principal
  Investigators (PIs) must address both merit review criteria in separate statements
  within the one-page Project Summary. This chapter also reiterates that broader
  impacts resulting from the proposed project must be addressed in the Project
  Description and described as an integral part of the narrative. Effective October
  1, 2002, NSF will return without review proposals that do not separately address
  both merit review criteria within the Project Summary. It is believed that these
  changes to NSF proposal preparation and processing guidelines will more clearly
  articulate the importance of broader impacts to NSF-funded projects. The two
  National Science Board approved merit review criteria are listed below (see the
  Grant Proposal Guide Chapter III.A for further information). The criteria include
  considerations that help define them. These considerations are suggestions and
  not all will apply to any given proposal. While proposers must address both
  merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked to address only those
  considerations that are relevant to the proposal being considered and for which
  he/she is qualified to make judgments. What is the intellectual merit of the
  proposed activity? How important is the proposed activity to advancing
  knowledge and understanding within its own field or across different fields?
  How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team) to conduct the project?
  (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality of the prior work.) To
  what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore creative and original
  concepts? How well conceived and organized is the proposed activity? Is there
  sufficient access to resources? What are the broader impacts of the proposed
  activity? How well does the activity advance discovery and understanding while
  promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well does the proposed activity
  broaden the participation of underrepresented groups (e.g., gender, ethnicity,
  disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it enhance the infrastructure for
  research and education, such as facilities, instrumentation, networks, and
  partnerships? Will the results be disseminated broadly to enhance scientific and
  technological understanding? What may be the benefits of the proposed activity
  to society? NSF staff will give careful consideration to the following in making
  funding decisions: Integration of Research and Education. One of the principal
  strategies in support of NSF's goals is to foster integration of research and
  education through the programs, projects, and activities it supports at academic
  and research institutions. These institutions provide abundant opportunities
  where individuals may concurrently assume responsibilities as researchers,
  educators, and students and where all can engage in joint efforts that infuse
  education with the excitement of discovery andenrich
  research through the diversity of learning perspectives. Integrating Diversity into
  NSF Programs, Projects, and Activities. Broadening opportunities and enabling
  the participation of all citizens - women and men, underrepresented minorities,
  and persons with disabilities --is essential to the health and vitality of science
  and engineering. NSF is committed to this principle of diversity and deems it
  central to the programs, projects, and activities it considers and supports.
47.078 POLAR PROGRAMS
   (OPP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42
  U.S.C. 1861 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To strengthen and enhance the national scientific enterprise through the
  expansion of fundamental knowledge and increased understanding of the polar
  regions. To encourage and support basic research in the Arctic and Antarctic
                                                                                    841
