  Summary and Project Description. Chapter II of the GPG specifies that Principal     
  Investigators (PIs) must address both merit review criteria in separate statements  
  within the one-page Project Summary. This chapter also reiterates that broader      
  impacts resulting from the proposed project must be addressed in the Project        
  Description and described as an integral part of the narrative. Effective October   
  1, 2002, NSF will return without review proposals that do not separately address    
  both merit review criteria within the Project Summary. It is believed that these    
  changes to NSF proposal preparation and processing guidelines will more clearly     
  articulate the importance of broader impacts to NSF-funded projects. The two        
  National Science Board approved merit review criteria are listed below (see the     
  Grant Proposal Guide Chapter III.A for further information). The criteria include   
  considerations that help define them. These considerations are suggestions and      
  not all will apply to any given proposal. While proposers must address both         
  merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked to address only those                
  considerations that are relevant to the proposal being considered and for which     
  he/she is qualified to make judgments. What is the intellectual merit of the        
  proposed activity? How important is the proposed activity to advancing              
  knowledge and understanding within its own field or across different fields?        
  How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team) to conduct the project?     
  (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality of the prior work.) To    
  what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore creative and original    
  concepts? How well conceived and organized is the proposed activity? Is there       
  sufficient access to resources? What are the broader impacts of the proposed        
  activity? How well does the activity advance discovery and understanding while      
  promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well does the proposed activity     
  broaden the participation of underrepresented groups (e.g., gender, ethnicity,      
  disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it enhance the infrastructure for
  research and education, such as facilities, instrumentation, networks, and          
  partnerships? Will the results be disseminated broadly to enhance scientific and    
  technological understanding? What may be the benefits of the proposed activity      
  to society? NSF staff will give careful consideration to the following in making    
  funding decisions: Integration of Research and Education. One of the principal      
  strategies in support of NSF's goals is to foster integration of research and       
  education through the programs, projects, and activities it supports at academic    
  and research institutions. These institutions provide abundant opportunities        
  where individuals may concurrently assume responsibilities as researchers,          
  educators, and students and where all can engage in joint efforts that infuse       
  education with the excitement of discovery                                          
  andenrichresearch through the diversity of learning perspectives. Integrating       
  Diversity into NSF Programs, Projects, and Activities. Broadening opportunities     
  and enabling the participation of all citizens, women and men, under represented    
  minorities, and persons with disabilities -- is essential to the health and vitality
  of science and engineering. NSF is committed to this principle of diversity and     
  deems it central to the programs, projects, and activities it considers and         
  supports.                                                                           
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
47.079 INTERNATIONAL SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING                                          
(OISE)                                                                                
                                                                                      
   (International)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION                                                         
                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42         
  U.S.C. 1861 et seq.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To enable the U.S. research community to maintain its excellence in science,        
  engineering, and leadership within the global scientific community by               
  strengthening international partnerships that foster the advancement of scientific  
                                                                                      
  discovery and thereby contribute to the continued scientific strength and welfare

                                                                                      
  of the Nation; to promote research excellence through international

                                                                                      
  collaboration; to develop a diverse, globally engaged U.S. science and

                                                                                      
  engineering workforce by providing U.S. students and junior faculty with

                                                                                      
  international research and education experience. The research supported is basic

                                                                                      
  in character. The program includes support of international research and

                                                                                      
  education projects that are innovative and catalytic. OISE programs are designed

                                                                                      
  to complement and enhance the Foundation's research and education portfolio

                                                                                      
  and to overcome barriers involved in international collaboration. Grants are

                                                                                      
  made in all the disciplinary fields supported by NSF. Support is provided for

                                                                                      
  international collaborative research; research workshops and planning visits;

                                                                                      
  activities that will develop the next generation of U.S. scientists and engineers

                                                                                      
  such as graduate traineeships, postdoctoral fellowships, special opportunities for

                                                                                      
  junior faculty for research support, and dissertation enhancements; and for U.S.

                                                                                      
  Government support to key multilateral organizations to enable U.S. scientists to   
  participate in such global efforts. Support is also provided for undergraduate      
  student international research and education experiences, and for research          
  opportunities for women, minorities, and disabled scientists and engineers.         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  


                                                                                 11-08
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  International cooperative scientific activities provide funds for U.S. scientists
  and engineers to carry out studies abroad, to conduct research, to engage in joint
  research projects with foreign counterpart organizations, and to support
  international workshops focused on well-defined scientific opportunities in the
  United States and abroad; travel must be on U.S. flag carriers. In some
  programs, support is provided by paying costs necessary to conduct research,
  such as salaries, equipment, supplies, travel, publications, and other direct and
  indirect costs. Primary responsibility for general supervision of all grant
  activities rests with the grantee institution; the project director or principal
  investigator is responsible for the execution of the research activities. Grants are
  made on a competitive basis. For all programs, funds may not be used for
  purposes other than those specified in the proposal.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public and private colleges and universities; Non-profit, non-academic
  organizations; For-profit organizations; State and Local Governments; and
  unaffiliated scientists under special circumstances. See the Grant Proposal Guide
  for a full description of eligibility requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  See the Grant Proposal Guide, Section I.E. for a full description of eligibility
  requirements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposals must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit the
  institution or organization in business and financial affairs and who can commit
  the organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for colleges and universities and A-
  122 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded from coverage under
  OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  For some international bilateral research programs, proposals may be developed
  between the two scientists for submission to the implementing agencies in both
  countries at the same time. Proposals must be cooperative in nature and be
  approved by implementing agencies in both countries. For other programs a
  preliminary proposal may be required. If applicable, the program solicitation will
  provide specific information. For all programs it is suggested that an initial
  inquiry be made before a proposal is submitted to determine whether a potential
  project qualifies for NSF support. This program is excluded from coverage under
  OMB Circular No. A-102. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  For project support, submission of a formal proposal, signed electronically by an
  official authorized to commit the institution or organization in financial affairs,
  fully documenting the planned activity and proposed amount of award.
  Guidelines are contained in publications, "Grant Proposal Guide," and "FY 2004
  Guide to Programs," NSF 04-009. This program is subject to the provisions of
  OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  NSF staff members review and evaluate all proposals. To assist them, they
  usually obtain the advice of scientists and engineers who are specialists in the
  field covered by the proposal. Proposals are supported on the basis of merit to
  the extent permitted by available funds.
Deadlines:
  Many NSF programs accept proposals at any time. Other programs, however,
  establish due dates for submission of proposals. NSF utilizes Target Dates,
  Deadline Dates, and Submission Windows. Consult the Grant Proposal Guide,
  Section I.F. for a further description of these types of due dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The normal duration is from 5 to 9 months.
Appeals:
  The project director or principal investigator may request, in writing, that the
  Foundation reconsider its action in declining any proposal, renewal, or
  continuing grant proposal.
Renewals:
  Proposals for renewal of awards, containing the same type of information as the
  original proposal, should be submitted 6 to 9 months before the expiration of the
  original award. Renewals are treated in competition with pending proposals.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  For some international cooperative research projects, funds may be contributed
  from both countries. In these cases, each country assumes responsibility for
  support of its own participation in the project within its own territory. Cost-
  sharing does not apply to any international program. The Grant Proposal Guide
  (GPG)(Sec. II) and the Grant Policy Manual (Sec. 330) provide additional
  information on the general NSF policy on cost-sharing.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 5 years.
Reports:
  For all multi-year grants (including both standard and continuing grants), the PI
  must submit an annual project report to the cognizant program office at least 90
  days before the end of the current budget period. Within 90 days after the
                                                                                    843
