  expiration of a grant, the PI is required to submit a final project report. For travel 
  grants, a travel report is required. Quarterly Federal Cash Transaction Reports        
  are required. Other reporting requirements may be imposed via the grant                
  instrument.                                                                            
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June            
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                        
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000       
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit               
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a          
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,       
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                                 
Records:                                                                                 
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each award to ensure that       
  funds are used for the general purpose for which the award was made. Records           
  are subject to inspection during the life of the award and for 3 years thereafter.     
Account Identification:                                                                  
  49-0100-0-1-251.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  (Grants) FY 07 $40,360,000; FY 08 est $41,340,000; and FY 09 est not                   
  reported.                                                                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  $500 to $2,000,000; $40,000.                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  In FY 2006, 713 competitive proposals were received and 320 awards were                
  made. In FY 2007, 778 proposals were received and 355 awards were made. In             
  FY 2008 approximately 875 competitive proposals are expected to be received            
  and about 350 awards made.                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  48 CFR Chapter 25; 45 CFR Chapter VI; "2004 Guide to Programs, " NSF 04-               
  009 (http://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=nsf04009); and               
  "Grant Proposal Guide,"                                                                
  (http://www.nsf.gov/publications/pub_summ.jsp?ods_key=nsf0423&org=NSF).                
Regional or Local Office:

  None.

Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Office of International Science and Engineering, National Science Foundation,          
  4201 Wilson Blvd., Suite 935, Arlington, VA 22230. Telephone: (703) 292-

  8710. http://www.nsf.gov/div/index.jsp?org=OISE .                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.nsf.gov .                                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  47.041, Engineering Grants; 47.049, Mathematical and Physical Sciences;                
  47.070, Computer and Information Science and Engineering; 47.074, Biological           
  Sciences; 47.050, Geosciences; 47.075, Social, Behavioral, and Economic                
  Sciences; 47.076, Education and Human Resources; 47.078, Polar Programs;               
  47.080, Office of Cyberinfrastructure.                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  "The Consortium of the Americas for Interdisciplinary Sciences: Present-day            
  Kinematics and Dynamics of the Eastern Mediterranean and Caucasus;" "US-               
  Africa Planning Visit: Collaborations in Cultural Astronomy;" "NSF East Asia           
  Summer Institutes for US Graduate Students;" "US-Africa Planning Visit:                
  Undergraduate Engineering Research in Ghana and Kenya"; US-France (INRIA)              
  Cooperative Research: Symbolic and Numerical Methods for Geometric                     
  Modeling.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  The National Science Board approved revised criteria for evaluating proposals at       
  its meeting on March 28, 1997 (NSB 97-72). All NSF proposals are evaluated             
  through use of the two merit review criteria. In some instances, however, NSF          
  will employ additional criteria as required to highlight the specific objectives of    
  certain programs and activities. On July 8, 2002, the NSF Director issued              
  Important Notice 127, Implementation of new Grant Proposal Guide                       
  Requirements Related to the Broader Impacts Criterion. This Important Notice           
  reinforces the importance of addressing both criteria in the preparation and           
  review of all proposals submitted to NSF. NSF continues to strengthen its              
  internal processes to ensure that both of the merit review criteria are addressed      
  when making funding decisions. In an effort to increase compliance with these          
  requirements, the January 2002 issuance of the GPG incorporated revised                
  proposal preparation guidelines relating to the development of the Project             
  Summary and Project Description. Chapter II of the GPG specifies that Principal        
  Investigators (PIs) must address both merit review criteria in separate statements     
  within the one-page Project Summary. This chapter also reiterates that broader         
  impacts resulting from the proposed project must be addressed in the Project           
  Description and described as an integral part of the narrative. Effective October      
  1, 2002, NSF will return without review proposals that do not separately address       
  both merit review criteria within the Project Summary. It is believed that these       
  changes to NSF proposal preparation and processing guidelines will more clearly        
  articulate the importance of broader impacts to NSF-funded projects. The two           
  National Science Board approved merit review criteria are listed below (see the        
  Grant Proposal Guide Chapter III.A for further information). The criteria include      


844                                                                                11-08

  considerations that help define them. These considerations are suggestions and
  not all will apply to any given proposal. While proposers must address both
  merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked to address only those
  considerations that are relevant to the proposal being considered and for which
  he/she is qualified to make judgments. What is the intellectual merit of the
  proposed activity? How important is the proposed activity to advancing
  knowledge and understanding within its own field or across different fields?
  How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team) to conduct the project?
  (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality of the prior work.) To
  what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore creative and original
  concepts? How well conceived and organized is the proposed activity? Is there
  sufficient access to resources? What are the broader impacts of the proposed
  activity? How well does the activity advance discovery and understanding while
  promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well does the proposed activity
  broaden the participation of underrepresented groups (e.g., gender, ethnicity,
  disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it enhance the infrastructure for
  research and education, such as facilities, instrumentation, networks, and
  partnerships? Will the results be disseminated broadly to enhance scientific and
  technological understanding? What may be the benefits of the proposed activity
  to society? NSF staff will give careful consideration to the following in making
  funding decisions: Integration of Research and Education. One of the principal
  strategies in support of NSF's goals is to foster integration of research and
  education through the programs, projects, and activities it supports at academic
  and research institutions. These institutions provide abundant opportunities
  where individuals may concurrently assume responsibilities as researchers,
  educators, and students and where all can engage in joint efforts that infuse
  education with the excitement of discovery andenrich
  research through the diversity of learning perspectives. Integrating Diversity into
  NSF Programs, Projects, and Activities. Broadening opportunities and enabling
  the participation of all citizens -- women and men, underrepresented minorities,
  and persons with disabilities -- is essential to the health and vitality of science
  and engineering. NSF is committed to this principle of diversity and deems it
  central to the programs, projects, and activities it considers and supports.
47.080 OFFICE OF CYBERINFRASTRUCTURE
   (OCI)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42
  U.S.C. 1861 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To coordinate and support the acquisition, development and provision of state-
  of-the-art cyberinfrastructure resources, tools and services essential to the
  conduct of frontier 21st century science and engineering research and education.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to pay costs of conducting research, product development,
  resources, tools and services, as salaries and wages, equipment and supplies,
  travel, publication costs, other direct costs, and indirect costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public and private colleges and universities; Non-profit, non-academic
  organizations; For-profit organizations; State and Local Governments; and
  unaffiliated scientists under special circumstances. See the Grant Proposal Guide
  for a full description of eligibility requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  See the Grant Proposal Guide, Section I.E. for a full description of eligibility
  requirements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The proposal must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit
  the institution or organization in business and financial affairs and who can
  commit the organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for educational
  institutions and A-122 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None required, except in specific cases, but preliminary discussions with
  relevant National Science Foundation program officers, by telephone or mail, are
  encouraged. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals being submitted to the Office of Cyberinfrastructure should follow the
  general instructions and guidelines in the "Grant Proposal Guide." All proposals
  are acknowledged. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular
  No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Award Procedure:
  NSF staff members review and evaluate all proposals, with the advice and
