  assistance of scientists and engineers who are specialists in the field covered by 
  the proposal, of prospective users of research results when appropriate, and of    
  specialists in other Federal agencies.                                             
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Many NSF programs accept proposals at any time. Other programs, however,           
  establish due dates for submission of proposals. NSF utilizes Target Dates,        
  Deadline Dates, and Submission Windows. Consult the Grant Proposal Guide,          
  Section I.F. for a further description of these types of due dates.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately six months or less, except in special instances.                     
Appeals:                                                                             
  The Principal Investigator may request, in writing, that the National Science      
  Foundation reconsider its action in declining any proposal, renewal, or            
  continuing grant proposal.                                                         
Renewals:                                                                            
  Proposals for renewal of NSF grants compete with all other pending proposals.      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The Grant Proposal Guide (GPG, Chapter II) and the Grant Policy Manual (Sec.       
  330) provide information on the general NSF policy on cost-sharing.                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Normally 6 months to 3 years; occasionally longer.                                 
Reports:                                                                             
  For multi-year grants (including both standard and continuing grants), the PI      
  must submit an annual progress report to the cognizant program officer at least    
  90 days before the end of the current budget period. Within 90 days after the      
  expiration of a grant, the PI is required to submit final project report. Quarterly
  Cash Transaction Report are required. Other reporting requirements may be          
  imposed via the grant instrument.                                                  
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audit of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that

                                                                                     
  funds are used for the general purpose for which each grant was made. Records

                                                                                     
  are subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for 3 years thereafter.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  49-0100-0-1-251.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  Obligations: (Grants) FY 07 $182,420,000; FY 08 est $185,330,000; and FY 09

                                                                                     
  est not reported.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $10,000 to $20,000,000; $339,956.                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal year 2006, 130 proposals were received and 42 awards made. In fiscal     
  year 2007, 307 proposals were received and 70 awards were made. In fiscal year     
  2008, approximately 320 proposals are expected to be received 71 awards made.      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  48 CFR Chapter 25: 45 CFR Chapter VI; NSF Guide to Programs, fiscal year           
  2004, NSF 04-009 (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?/nsf04009); and "Grant         
  Proposal Guide," (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?/nsf0423). NSF World           
  Wide Web site URL: http://www.nsf.gov/oci/.                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of the Director, National Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd.,            
  Arlington, VA 22230. Telephone: (703) 292-8970.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.nsf.gov/oci/ .                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  47.041, Engineering Grants; 47.049, Mathematical and Physical Sciences;            
  47.050, Geosciences; 47.070 Computer and Information Science and                   
  Engineering; 47.074, Biological Sciences; 47.075, Social, Behavioral, and          
  Economic Sciences; 47.076, Education and Human Resources; 47.078, Polar            
  Programs; 47.079, International Science and Engineering (OISE).                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  1) The OptIPuter: Essentially, the OptIPuter is a "virtual" parallel computer in   
  which the individual "processors" are widely distributed clusters; the             
  "backplane" is provided by IP delivered over multiple dedicated lambdas (each      
  1-10 Gbps); and, the "mass storage systems" are large distributed scientific data  
  repositories, fed by scientific instruments as OptIPuter peripheral devices,       
  operated in near real-time. Furthermore, collaboration will be a defining          
  OptIPuter characteristic; goals include implementing a next-generation Access      
  Grid with optical multicast, enabling tiled stereo HDTV screens of reality-        
  matching visual resolution. The OptIPuter is an embodiment of the vision of the    
  "hollowing out of the computer" prophesized in the mid-1990s. The old              


                                                                                11-08
  "computer-in-a-box" is being blown up and scattered across the Net. The
  OptIPuter's fundamental inventions include software and middleware
  abstractions to deliver unique capabilities in a lambda-rich world, a world in
  which endpoint-delivered bandwidth is greater than individual computers can
  saturate. The OptIPuter project explores a new architecture for the distributed
  information infrastructure (which NSF terms infrastructure) required by a
  number of this decade's science and engineering shared facilities. The project is
  driven by a close collaboration with leaders of two of these community systems,
  NSF's EarthScope and NIH's Biomedical Imaging Research Network (BIRN) -
  both of which are beginning to produce an accelerating flood of data which will
  in stored in distributed federated data repositories. One characteristic blocking
  such science is that the individual data objects (a 3D brain image or a terrain
  dataset) are large (Gigabytes) compared to what can be interactively manipulated
  or visualized over today's networks. What these scientists require are ultra-high-
  speed predictable "clear-channel" networks linking PC clusters, storage and
  visualization systems, enabling collaborating scientists to explore interactively
  massive amounts of previously uncorrelated data. An important opportunity
  exists over the next few years to develop a radical new architecture for this
  needed scientific infostructure. 2) Engaging People in Cyberinfrastructure
  (EPIC): TeacherTECH program reached 540 K-12 educators from February
  2005 to December 2005 through monthly and summer workshops in science,
  technology, engineering and math. These educator participants represented all of
  San Diego County, from urban to rural, from the tip of San Diego County all the
  way to the border with Mexico. Seventy educators were reached last year.
  Workshops include TeacherTECH Technology Tools workshops, TeacherTECH
  Advanced Technology Tools workshops, TeacherTECH Science Series and a
  TeacherTECH Math Series. Many of the TeacherTECH Science Series
  workshop presentations are archived on our TeacherTECH site
  (http://education.sdsc.edu/teachertech) for viewing by teachers across the nation.
   Ten thousand people have visited the new TeacherTECH website since its
  inception in May 2005. The site includes standards-based curriculum submitted
  by TeacherTECH participants, science lectures, scientific visualizations, notes,
  resources and much more. Our community partners and educators alike have
  praised our site. 3) Tornadogenesis within a simulated supercell storm: Using
  the Advanced Regional Prediction System model and supercomputing facilities
  a realistic supercell storm is simulated and successfully reproduced vorticity and
  other features of the most-intense tornado ever simulated. The use of a uniform
  resolution grid large enough to contain the entire parent storm is a first, and
  eliminates the uncertainties of artificial human control associated with nested
  grid simulations or simulations using horizontally stretched grids. The peak
  wind speed, reaching 120 meters per second, places the tornado within the F5
  intensity scale of Fujita. Atmospheric data from this
  simulationwill be used to develop algorithms for a new system of cell-phone
  tower based Doppler radar, called CASA (Center for Collaborative Adaptive
  Sensing of the Atmosphere), projected to reduce tornado false-alarm forecasts
  from the current 75 percent to 25 percent. 4) The Pacific Rim Application and
  Grid Middleware Assembly (PRAGMA): An intensive international effort
  involving researcher from more than ten institutions to improve grid-based
  application, collaboration, discourse and exchange of scientific personnel among
  Pacific Rim institutions. It builds on an initial series of workshops that focused
  on assessing the state of grid-based infrastructure, evaluated a collection of
  scientific applications and provided a recurring venue to nurture sustainable
  collaborations across the Pacific Rim. The original award provided funds to
  host the first workshop and allow both computing infrastructure specialists and
  applications scientists to attend follow on workshops. This ongoing effort
  created the initial impetus to move forward in both building long long-term
  international collaborations and creating a venue for applications scientists to
  effectively understand and use grid-based systems. 5) Keeping Condor Flight
  Worthy: This proposal outlines an effort to sustain the Condor High Throughput
  Computing Software (Condor) by the Condor Project at the University of
  Wisconsin-Madison (UW). The activities proposed are categorized into four
  areas of work: Support, Release, Enhance, and Use. "Support" activities aid
  users with installation, configuration, and usage through ticket-tracked email.
  Support also includes outreach work in the scientific computing community.
  This outreach work includes hosting an annual international Condor workshop,
  participating in online forums dedicated to Condor and distributed computing,
  writing articles and book chapters on using Condor, and delivering invited
  tutorials at workshops and conferences. "Support" functions serve mainly to
  deliver new versions of the Condor software. Support also includes maintenance
  - ongoing bug fixing, support for new operating system releases and new
  versions of dependent software packages, and updates to documentation.
  "Enhance" activities will generate basic improvements to the Condor software,
  such as enhancements in scalability and reliability, new capabilities on Win32,
  and the incorporation of recent advances in distributed computing technology.
  "Use" activities leverages the Grid Laboratory of Wisconsin (GLOW) project.
  GLOW is a multi disciplinary team of researchers across the University of
  Wisconsin campus that develops, implements, tests and deploys grid-enabled
  capabilities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
                                                                                  845
