  The National Science Board approved revised criteria for evaluating proposals at     
  its meeting on March 28, 1997 (NSB 97-72). All NSF proposals are evaluated           
  through use of the two merit review criteria. In some instances, however, NSF        
  will employ additional criteria as required to highlight the specific objectives of  
  certain programs and activities. On July 8, 2002, the NSF Director issued            
  Important Notice 127, Implementation of new Grant Proposal Guide                     
  Requirements Related to the Broader Impacts Criterion. This Important Notice         
  reinforces the importance of addressing both criteria in the preparation and         
  review of all proposals submitted to NSF. NSF continues to strengthen its            
  internal processes to ensure that both of the merit review criteria are addressed    
  when making funding decisions. In an effort to increase compliance with these        
  requirements, the January 2002 issuance of the GPG incorporated revised              
  proposal preparation guidelines relating to the development of the Project           
  Summary and Project Description. Chapter II of the GPG specifies that Principal      
  Investigators (PIs) must address both merit review criteria in separate statements   
  within the one-page Project Summary. This chapter also reiterates that broader       
  impacts resulting from the proposed project must be addressed in the Project         
  Description and described as an integral part of the narrative. Effective October    
  1, 2002, NSF will return without review proposals that do not separately address     
  both merit review criteria within the Project Summary. It is believed that these     
  changes to NSF proposal preparation and processing guidelines will more clearly      
  articulate the importance of broader impacts to NSF-funded projects. The two         
  National Science Board approved merit review criteria are listed below (see the      
  Grant Proposal Guide Chapter III.A for further information). The criteria include    
  considerations that help define them. These considerations are suggestions and       
  not all will apply to any given proposal. While proposers must address both          
  merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked to address only those                 
  considerations that are relevant to the proposal being considered and for which      
  he/she is qualified to make judgments. What is the intellectual merit of the         
  proposed activity? How important is the proposed activity to advancing               
  knowledge and understanding within its own field or across different fields?         
  How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team) to conduct the project?      
  (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality of the prior work.) To     
  what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore creative and original     
  concepts? How well conceived and organized is the proposed activity? Is there        
  sufficient access to resources? What are the broader impacts of the proposed         
  activity? How well does the activity advance discovery and understanding while       
  promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well does the proposed activity      
  broaden the participation of underrepresented groups (e.g., gender, ethnicity,       
  disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it enhance the infrastructure for 
  research and education, such as facilities, instrumentation, networks, and           
  partnerships? Will the results be disseminated broadly to enhance scientific and     
  technological understanding? What may be the benefits of the proposed activity       
  to society NSF staff will give careful consideration to the following in making      
                                                                                       
  funding decisions: Integration of Research and Education. One of the principal

                                                                                       
  strategies in support of NSF's goals is to foster integration of research and

                                                                                       
  education through the programs, projects, and activities it supports at academic

                                                                                       
  and research institutions. These institutions provide abundant opportunities

                                                                                       
  where individuals may concurrently assume responsibilities as researchers,

                                                                                       
  educators, and students and where all can engage in joint efforts that infuse

                                                                                       
  education with the excitement of discovery andenrich

                                                                                       
  research through the diversity of learning perspectives. Integrating Diversity into

                                                                                       
  NSF Programs, Projects, and Activities. Broadening opportunities and enabling

                                                                                       
  the participation of all citizens -- women and men, underrepresented minorities,

                                                                                       
  and persons with disabilities -- is essential to the health and vitality of science

                                                                                       
  and engineering. NSF is committed to this principle of diversity and deems it        
  central to the programs, projects, and activities it considers and supports.         
                                                                                       
47.081 OFFICE OF EXPERIMENTAL PROGRAM TO                                               
STIMULATE COMPETITIVE RESEARCH                                                         
                                                                                       
      020 (EPSCoR)                                                                     
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National Science Foundation Act of 1950, as amended, Public Law 107-368, 42          
  U.S.C. 1861 et seq.                                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  As an investment strategy, Co-funding enables members of the research                
  communities within EPSCoR jurisdictions not only to improve their ability to         
  compete for National Science Foundation (NSF) program funds, but also to             
  increase their active participation and visibility as members of the national        
  scientific research and education enterprise. To assist those jurisdictions that     
  has historically received lesser amounts of academic research and development        
  funding. The NSF EPSCoR Office established the Co-funding Initiative in FY           
  1998 to accelerate the movement of more researchers and institutions from            
  EPSCoR jurisdictions into the mainstream of NSF support, and thereby                 
  contribute to the NSF EPSCoR concept of a Trajectory for Sustainable Scientific      


846                                                                              11-08

  Success.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to pay the costs of conducting research, product
  development, resources, tools and services, as salaries and wages, equipment and
  supplies, travel, publication costs, other direct costs, and indirect costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public and private colleges and universities; Non-profit, non-academic
  organizations; For-profit organizations; State and Local Governments; and
  unaffiliated scientists under special circumstances. See the Grant Proposal
  Guide for a full description of eligibility requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  See the Grant Proposal Guide, Section I.E. for a full description of eligibility
  requirements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The proposal must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit
  the institution or organization in business and financial affairs and who can
  commit the organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for educational
  institutions and A-122 for nonprofit organizations. This program is excluded
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None required, except in specific cases, but preliminary discussions with
  relevant National Science Foundation program officers, by telephone or mail, are
  encouraged. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  By electronic submission via FastLane of a formal proposal describing the
  research or study to be undertaken. Guidelines are contained in publication,
  "Grant Proposal Guide," and "Guide to Programs Fiscal Year 2004,"NSF 04-
  009. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
  This program is excluded from the coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Award Procedure:
  NSF staff members review and evaluate all proposals, with the advice and
  assistance of scientists and engineers who are specialists in the field covered by
  the proposal, of prospective users of research results when appropriate, and of
  specialists in other Federal agencies.
Deadlines:
  Many NSF program accept proposals at any time. Other programs, however,
  establish due dates for submission of proposals. NSF utilizes Target Dates,
  Deadline Dates, and Submission Windows. Consult the Grant Proposal Guide,
  Section I.F. for further description of these types of due dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 180 days.
Appeals:
  The Principal Investigator whose proposal for support has been declined may
  request, in writing, that the National Science Foundation reconsider its action in
  ceclining any proposal, renewal, or continuing grant proposal.
Renewals:
  Proposals for renewals, containing the same type of information as the original
  proposal, should be submitted at least 6 months before the expiration date of the
  award. Renewals are treated in competition with all other pending proposals.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Grant Proposal Guide (GPA, Chapter II) and the Grant Policy Manual
  (Section 330) provide information on the general NSF policy on cost-sharing.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Normally 6 months to 3 years; occasionally longer.
Reports:
  For multi-year grants (including both standard and continuing grants), the PI
  must submit an annual progress report to the cognizant program officer at least
  90 days before the end of the current budget period. Within 90 days after the
  expiration of a grant, the PI is required to submit final project report. Quarterly
  cash Transaction Report are required. Other reporting requirements may be
  imposed via the grant instrument.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audit of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that
  funds are used for the general propose for which each grant was made. Records
  are subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for 3 years thereafter.
Account Identification:
  49-0100-0-1-251.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $102,110,000; FY 08 est $111,100,000; and FY 09 est not available.
