Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $99,472 to $9,200,000; $5,918,265.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In fiscal year 2006, 14 proposals were received and 11 awards made. In fiscal         
  year 2007, 18 proposals received and 18 awards made.                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  CFR Chapter 25; 45 CFR Chapter VI; NSF Guide to Programs, fiscal year 2004,           
  NSF 04-009 (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?/nsf04009); and Grant Proposal          
  Guide, (http://www.nsf.gov/cgi-bin/getpub?/nsf0423). NSF World Wide Web               
  site URL: http://www.nsf.gov/oci/.                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Office of the Director, Natinal Science Foundation, 4201 Wilson Blvd.,                
  Arlington, VA 22230. Telephone: (703)292-8970.                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.nsf.gov/oia.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  47.041, Engineering Grants; 47.049, Mathematical and Physical Sciences;               
  47.050, Geosciences; 47.070, Computer and Information Science and                     
  Engineering; 47.074, Biological Sciences; 47.075, Social, Behavioral, and             
  Economic Sciences; 47.076, Education and Human Resources; 47.078, Polar               
  Programs; 47.079, International Science and Engineering (OISE); 47.080, Office        
  of Cyberinfrastructure.

EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  (1) With support from NSF's Experimental Program to Stimulate Competitive

  Research (EPSCoR), the SUNRISE research group of the University of North

  Dakota has developed an oilseed-based biojet fuel for aviation turbines and

  diesel engines that withstands cold temperatures and is more stable than

  traditional biodiesel fuels. The SUNRISE team is developing the technology to

  reduce the oil extraction cost specifically for biojet fuel application so that it is

  more cost effective than other fuels. SUNRISE also incorporates the research

  into chemistry and chemical engineering courses at the university, and educates

  the state's agricultural and financial communities and political leaders about

  biofuels and their potential economic impact. (2) The University of Puerto Rico

  and the Center for Hierarchical Manufacturing at the University of

  Massachusetts, Amherst made a scientific and technological breakthrough that

  enables the direct integration of diamond nanoparticles into electronic

  components for widespread applications. These applications include protective

  coating for medical implants, environmental sensors, optical components

  exposed to harsh environments, and improved electrodes for electrical uses. The

  Diamond Nanotechnology Project was sponsored by NSF through EPSCoR.

  The University of Puerto Rico recently submitted to the U.S. Patent and

  Trademark Office a disclosure document for this development entitled, "Method

  to Synthesize Diamond on Polymers, Semiconductors, and Other Temperature-

  Sensitive Materials." (OIA/EPSCoR).

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  The National Science Board approved revised criteria for evaluating proposals at

  its meeting on March 28, 1977 (NSF 97-72). All NSF proposals are evaluated

  through use of the two merit review criteria. In some instances, however, NSF

  will employ additional criteria as required to highlight the specific objectives of

  certain programs and activities. On July 8, 2002, the NSF Director issued

  important Notice 127, Implementation of new Grant Proposal Guide

  Requirements Related to the Broader Impacts Criterion. This important Notice

  reinforces the importance of addressing both criteria in the preparation and

  review of all merit review criteria are addressed when making funding decisions.

   In an effort to increase compliance with these requirements, the January 2002

  issuance of the GPG incorporated revised proposal preparation guidelines

  relating to the development of the Project Summary and Project Description.

  Chapter II of the GPG specifies that Principal Investigators (PIs) must address

  both merit review criteria in separate statements within the one-page Project

  Summary. This chapter also reiterates that broader impacts resulting from the

  proposed project must be addressed in the Project Description and described as

  an integral part of the narrative. Effective October 1, 2002, NSF will return

  without review proposals that do not separately address both merit review

  criteria within the Project Summary. It is believed that these changes to NSF

  proposals preparation and processing guidelines will more clearly articulate the

  importance of broader impacts of NSF-funded projects. The two National

  Science Board approved merit review criteria are listed below (see the Grant

  Proposals Guide Chapter III.A for further information). The criteria include

  considerations that help define them. These considerations are suggestions and

  not all will apply to any given proposal. While proposers must address both

  merit review criteria, reviewers will be asked to address only those

  considerations that are relevant to the proposal being considered and for which

  he/she is qualified to make judgments. What is the intellectual merit of the

  proposed activity? How important is the proposed activity to advancing

  knowledge and understanding within its own field or across different fields?

  How well qualified is the proposer (individual or team) to conduct the project?

  (If appropriate, the reviewer will comment on the quality of the prior work.) To

  what extent does the proposed activity suggest and explore creative and original



                                                                                  11-08 
concepts? How well conceived and organized is the proposed activity? Is there
sufficient access to resources? What are the broader impacts of the proposed
activity? How well does the activity advance discovery and understanding while
promoting teaching, training, and learning? How well does the proposed activity
broaden the participation of underrepresented groups (e.g., gender, ethnicity,
disability, geographic, etc.)? To what extent will it enhance the infrastructure
for research and education, such as facilities, instrumentation, networks, and
partnerships? Will the results be disseminated broadly to enhance scientific and
technological understanding? What may be the benefits of the proposed activity
to society NSF staff will give careful consideration to the following in making
funding decisions: Integration of Research and Education. One of the principal
strategies in support of NSF's goals is to foster integration of research and
education through the programs, projects, and activities it supports at academic
and research institutions. These institutions provide abundant opportunities
where individuals may concurrently assume responsibilities as researchers,
educators, and students and where all can engage in joint efforts that infuse
education with the excitement of discovery and enrich research through the
diversityoflearningperspectives.IntegratingDiversityintoNSF Programs, Projects,
and Activities. Broadening opportunities and enabling the participation of all
citizens, women and men, underrepresented minorities, and persons with
disabilities is essential to the health and vitality of science and engineering.
NSF is committed to this principle of diversity and deems it central to the
programs, projects, and activities it considers and supports.
                                                                              847
