                                                 SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

59.006 8(A) BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM                                               
                                                                                       
      (Section 8(a) Program)                                                           
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Small Business Act of 1953, as amended, Section 8(a), 15 U.S.C. 634(b)(6),           
  636(j), 637(a) and (d); Public Laws 95-507 and 99-661, Section 1207; Public          
  Laws 100-656 and 101-37.                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To foster business ownership by individuals who are both socially and                
  economically disadvantaged; and to promote the competitive viability of such         
  firms by providing business development assistance including, but not limited        
  to, management and technical assistance, access to capital and other forms of        
  financial assistance, business training and counseling, and access to sole source    
  and limited competition Federal contract opportunities, to help the firms to         
  achieve competitive viability.                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Provision of Specialized Services.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  This program utilizes authority provided to SBA under Section 7(j) and 8(a) of       
  the Small Business Act to enter into procurement contracts with other Federal        
  agencies and to subcontract the performance of these contracts to eligible           
  program participants, and to provide access to capital and other forms of            
  financial assistance, and to provide business training and counseling.               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Firms applying for 8(a) program participation must meet certain requirements         
  which include, but are not limited to: (a) Status as a small business; (b) at least  
  51 percent unconditional ownership, control and management of the business by        
  an American citizen(s) determined by SBA to be socially and economically             
  disadvantaged, or by an economically disadvantaged Indian Tribe, Alaska              
  Native Corporation, or Native Hawaiian Organization; and (c) demonstrated            
  potential for success; and (d) possess good character. Absent evidence to the        
  contrary, the following individuals are presumed to be socially disadvantaged:       
  African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Native Americans, Asian Pacific               
  Americans and Subcontinent Asian Americans. Individuals who are not                  
  members of the named groups may establish their social disadvantage on the           
  basis of a preponderance of evidence of personal disadvantage stemming from          
  color, national origin, gender, physical handicap, long- term residence in an        
  environment isolated from the American society, or other similar cause beyond        
  the individual's control. Economic disadvantage must be demonstrated on a            
  case-by-case basis.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Socially and economically disadvantaged individuals and small businesses

  owned and operated by such individuals; economically disadvantaged Indian            
  tribes including Alaskan Native Corporations and economically disadvantaged          
                                                                                       
  Native Hawaiian organizations.

                                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                       
  Documentation to establish that all program eligibility criteria are met.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Electronic application to SBA offices through SBA's webpage at www.sba.gov.          
  Detailed instructions, and if necessary, assistance in completing application is     
  available at SBA District offices and on SBA's home page at                          
  http://www.sba.gov.                                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applicant is notified of program participation approval or decline by a letter       
  from the SBA headquarters office. Broad range of business development                
  assistance, including procurement, and access to capital and other forms of          
  financial assistance and business training and counseling is provided to             
  approved program participants.                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Applications for program participation are accepted on an ongoing basis.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 90 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                               
  Within 45 days of the date of decline letter, applicant has right to request that    
  the decision be reconsidered. For applications declined solely on the basis of       
  negative finding with regard to social disadvantage, economic disadvantage,          
  ownership or control of business by socially or economically disadvantaged           
  individuals, the applicant within 45 days of the date of the decline letter or       
  reaffirmation of decline, has a right to appeal the decision to the SBA's Office of  
  Hearing and Appeals.                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     


850                                                                              11-08

  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Maximum of 9 years.
Reports:
  Annual business financial statements; annual business plan update; annual
  personal financial statements for each disadvantaged owner; annual certification
  of continuing compliance with program eligibility criteria; records of all
  payments, compensation and distributions made by the participant firm to each
  of its owners or to any person or entity affiliated with such owners; and other
  reports deemed necessary by SBA.
Audits:
  Program participation audits as needed to evaluate progress. Contract audits as
  and when required by Federal Acquisition Regulations.
Records:
  Standard business/accounting records.
Account Identification:
  73-0100-0-1-376.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $41,191,000; FY 08 est $44,550,000; and FY 09 $48,320,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2001, 32,091 contract actions valued at approximately $6.59
  billion were awarded to companies participating in the program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  SBA Rules and Regulations, 13 CFR Section 124, SOP 80-05-02.
Regional or Local Office:
  Initial contact should be made with the field offices listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Associate Administrator for 8(a) Business Development, Small Business
  Administration, 409 Third Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20416.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.sba.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.800, Minority Business Enterprise Centers; 59.007, 7(j) Technical
  Assistance; 59.009, Procurement Assistance to Small Businesses; 59.011, Small
  Business Investment Companies.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
59.007 7(J) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Small Business Act of 1953, as amended, Section 7(j), Public Law 85-536, as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of the program is to provide Business Development Assistance for
  Socially and Economically Disadvantaged Businesses. SBA performs this
  mission by entering into grants, cooperative agreements and contracts with
  qualified service providers who have the capability to provide business
  development assistance to eligible businesses and individuals under Sections
  7(i), 7(j) and 8(a) of the Small Business Act.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Financial assistance under this Section may be given for projects that respond to
  requirements as outlined in each respective program solicitation announcement,
  or for an unsolicited proposal that could provide valuable business development
  assistance for8(a) and other socially and economically disadvantaged small
  businesses and individuals. Types of business development assistance may
  include: Accounting and marketing services, proposal/bid preparation
  workshops, feasibility studies, marketing/presentation analyses and advertising
  expertise, loan packaging, industry specific technical assistance and other
  specialized management training and technical services. The program funds can
  also be used to establish and strengthen business service agencies, including
  trade associations and cooperatives. The 7(j) program funds are not available to
  finance or purchase a business nor are they available to use as expansion capital
  for an existing business.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Educational institutions, public or private organizations and businesses,
  individuals, State and local governments, Indian tribes and lending and financial
  institutions and sureties that have the capability to provide the required business
  development assistance.
