  Development Program.                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  None.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                   
                                                                                    
59.011 SMALL BUSINESS INVESTMENT COMPANIES                                          
                                                                                    
   (SBIC; SSBIC)                                                                    
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Small Business Investment Act of 1958, as amended, Public Law 85-699, 15          
  U.S.C. 681 et seq.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To establish privately owned and managed investment companies, which are          
  licensed and regulated by the U.S. Small Business Administration; to provide      
  equity capital and long term loan funds to small businesses; and to provide       
  advisory services to small businesses.                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Direct Loans; Guaranteed/Insured Loans; Advisory Services and Counseling.         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  The investment companies provide management and financial assistance on a         
  continuing basis to eligible small business concerns. Financial assistance is     
  provided by making long-term loans to these small concerns, and/or by the         
  purchase of debt or equity type securities issued by these firms. Emphasis is on  
  providing assistance to the pioneering, innovating-type concerns developing new   
  products, processes, and markets. Specialized investment companies                
  organized/licensed under former Section 301(d) of the authorizing statute         
  (SSBICs) must restrict eligibility of small concerns financed by such investment  
  companies to those owned and operated by individuals whose participation in       
  the free enterprise system has been hampered by social or economic                
  disadvantages. Debentures and participating securities are issued by the SBIC     
  and guaranteed by SBA for a term not to exceed ten years. All investment          
  companies generally may not self-deal, finance "big business," or invest over 20  
  percent (30 percent for SSBICs) of private capital in any single small concern.   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Any chartered small business investment company having private capital of not     
  less than $3,000,000 (for those choosing to not receive leverage from SBA) or     
  $5 million (for those receiving leverage from SBA), having qualified              
  management, and giving evidence of sound operation, and establishing the need     
  for SBIC financing in the geographic area in which the applicant proposes to      
  operate.                                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Individual businesses (single proprietorship, partnership or corporation) which   
  satisfy the established criteria of a small business. SSBICs beneficiary must also
  be a business owned and operated by socially or economically disadvantaged        
  individuals.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  An investment company must be chartered as a corporation, limited partnership     
  (with individuals, corporation, partnership, or limited liability company as      
  general partner), or limited liability company. Determination is made as to need  
  in area, general business reputation and character of proposed owners and         
  management and probability of successful operations. All loans to, or             
  investments in, small concerns shall be of such sound value as reasonable to      
  assure repayment.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                              
  Request information and appropriate forms from SBA's Investment Division.

  Complete application requirements and submit with required application fee to     
  SBA's Investment Division.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Applicant is notified by issuance of a license from the Investment Division of    
  the Small Business Administration.                                                
Deadlines:                                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Average of 180 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                            
  Proponents may reapply at any time.                                               
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  An SBIC or an SSBIC in good standing, with a demonstrated need for funds,         
  may receive leverage based on its private capital. An SBIC or SSBIC may           
  receive leverage of as much as 300 percent of its private funds. The maximum      
  amount of leverage varies according to the SBIC's private capital. The            
  maximum amount of leverage is currently $130,600,000. This amount is              
                                                                                    


                                                                               11-08
  adjusted annually for increases in the Consumer Price Index. To obtain leverage,
  SBICs issue their debentures or participating securities which are guaranteed by
  SBA. Pools of the SBA-guaranteed debentures or participating securities are
  formed, and SBA-guaranteed participation certificates, representing an
  undivided interest in the pools, are sold to investors through a public offering.
  Under current procedures, regular SBIC debentures have a term of 10 years, and
  they provide for semi-annual interest payments and a lump-sum principal
  payment at maturity. Debentures may be prepaid with a penalty during the first
  five years of their term or without penalty thereafter. The debenture rate is
  determined by market conditions at the time of the sale. As with debentures, the
  rate on participating securities is based on the 10-year Treasury-yield curve.
  However, the participating security provides for payment of dividends or interest
  and profit participation to SBA only when an SBIC has earnings, as defined by
  regulation. A unique feature of the participating securities is that SBA shares in
  the profits of the SBIC.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Financial report (annual); program financing reports; any other report furnished
  to stockholders.
Audits:
  Annual audit by a certified public accountant and periodic examinations by SBA
  personnel.
Records:
  Current financial records, minutes of meetings of stockholders, general partners,
  directors, executive committees, and time spent and charges made for
  management consulting services performed must be maintained for 6 years.
Account Identification:
  73-1154-0-1-376.
Obligations:
  SBIC Debenture Guarantees: FY 07 $707,470,000; FY 08 $3,000,000,000; and
  FY 09 $3,000,000,000. Administrative Expenses: FY 07 $4,382,000; FY 08
  5,195,000; and FY 09 $5,377,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  SBIC and SSBIC Leverage: $50,000 to $130,600,000. Average: $19,300,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  As of September 2007, the SBA portfolio of active companies was composed of
  369 SBICs with capital resources of $18.6 billion.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  13 CFR Chapter I, Part 107.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Associate Administrator for Investment, Investment Division, Small Business
  Administration, 409 Third Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20416. Telephone:
  (202) 205-6510. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.sba.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  59.006, 8(a) Business Development Program; 59.037 Small Business
  Development Centers; 59.043 Women's Business Ownership Assistance; 59.044
  Veterans Business Development; 59.052 Native American Outreach.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
59.012 7(A) LOAN GUARANTEES
   (Regular Business Loans 7(a) Loans)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Small Business Act of 1953, Section 7(a), as amended, Public Law 97-35.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide guaranteed loans from lenders to small businesses which are unable
  to obtain financing in the private credit marketplace, but can demonstrate an
  ability to repay loans if granted, in a timely manner. Guaranteed loans are made
  available to for profit small businesses. The SBA's 7(a) lending authority
  includes: (1) regular 7(a) (2) the Low Documentation Loan Program (Low Doc);
  (3) SBAExpress Program; (4) the Cap Line Program (5) PLP and (6)
  International Trade.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans (including Immediate Participation Loans).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To construct, expand, or convert facilities; to purchase building equipment or
  materials; and for working capital. Excludes gambling establishments, nonprofit
  enterprises, speculators in property, lending or investment enterprises, and
  financing of real property held for investment; also excludes funds to
  indiscriminately relocate the business. Funds must not otherwise be available on
                                                                                   853
