REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  SBA Rules and Regulation, Section 120.800 and 120.900; Certified                    
  Development Company Program - Program Guide.                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of the Small Business                  
  Administration offices.                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Director, Office of Financial Assistance, Small Business Administration, 409        
  3rd Street S.W., Washington, DC 20416. Telephone: (202) 205-7562.                   
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.sba.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
59.043 WOMEN'S BUSINESS OWNERSHIP ASSISTANCE                                          
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                      
  SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION

                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  Small Business Act, 2(h) and 29, 15 U.S.C. 631(h) and 656 (as amended).

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

  To fund private, nonprofit organizations to assist, through training and            
  counseling, small business concerns owned and controlled by women, and to           
                                                                                      
  remove, in so far as possible, the discriminatory barriers that are encountered by

                                                                                      
  women in accessing capital and promoting their businesses.

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts).                               
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  To establish women's business centers (WBCs) for the benefit of small business      
  concerns owned and controlled by women. The services provided by the                
                                                                                      
  women's business centers must include financial, management, procurement and

                                                                                      
  marketing assistance to start-up or established concerns, as well as mentoring

                                                                                      
  and Internet services. Annual awards are issued through a 5-year term to

                                                                                      
  successful applicants. Also, previously funded centers that have completed an

                                                                                      
  award cycle may compete to receive additional funding through a 5-year term

                                                                                      
  under the 4-year pilot program established under the Women's Business Center

                                                                                      
  Sustainability Act of 1999 (and as extended by Congress for fiscal years 2004,

                                                                                      
  2005 and 2006).                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Private, nonprofit organizations having experience in effectively training and      
  counseling business women. Public educational institutions and State and local      
  governments are not eligible.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Women entrepreneurs starting their own business or expanding their existing         
  business.                                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications are accepted in accordance with and up to the date specified in the

                                                                                      
  annual program announcement as posted at www.grants.gov and                         
  www.onlinewbc.gov. The applicant must complete the Application for Federal          
  Assistance (Standard Forms 424, 424A and 424B) and submit a written proposal        
  addressing all of the selection criteria stated in the program announcement. The    
  applicant must submit applications/proposals electronically through                 
  www.grants.gov (free training on electronic filing is available on the site) by the 
  application closing date.                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Proposals of eligible applicants are evaluated by a review panel. Candidates for    
  sustainability awards also undergo a site review. The SBA/Office of                 
  Procurement and Grants Management issues an award to each approved                  
  applicant.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Applications/proposals must be submitted by the date indicated in the Program       
  Announcement.                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Within 120 days from filing deadline.

                                                                                      
Appeals:

  None.

Renewals:                                                                             
  Continued annual option awards are issued to successful award recipients

                                                                                      
  through a five-year term without recompetition.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                      
  The recipient organization must obtain contributions from non-Federal sources

                                                                                      
  to match the Federal award. Up to one-half of the non-Federal matching

                                                                                      
  assistance may be in the form of in-kind contributions; the remainder must be in



                                                                                 11-08
  cash. The match requirement for recipients through the 5-year term are as
  follows: one non-Federal dollar for each two Federal dollars in the first and
  second years; and one non-Federal dollar for each Federal dollar in the third,
  fourth and fifth years. The match requirements for sustainability awards are: one
  non-Federal dollar for each Federal dollar each year through the 5-year term. The
  Administration may disburse up to 25 percent of each year's Federal share
  awarded to a recipient organization after notice of the award has been issued and
  before the non-Federal matching funds are obtained.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Initial and option year awards are issued annually, without recompetition,
  through the five-year grant term to compliant centers.
Reports:
  The recipient must submit quarterly performance reports during the term of the
  project. These performance reports consist of two sections: data and narrative.
  The data section of the performance reports provides statistical information. The
  narrative section of the performance reports includes a comparison of actual
  accomplishments to the estimated milestones established for the reporting
  period, reasons milestones were not met, and a plan of action to address issues;
  and information relating to actual financial expenditures. All reports are
  electronically transmitted.
Audits:
  The recipient must have an outside accountant certify the conditions of the
  WBC's financial management system as part of SBA's final Programmatic and
  Financial Examination. Also, the award recipient must comply with audit
  requirements as prescribed in OMB Circular No. A-133, as applicable.
Records:
  The awardee shall maintain and submit detailed, complete and accurate client
  activity records to reflect clearly the nature and variety of services provided.
  Financial records must be kept until three years after the completion and
  submission of the final report.
Account Identification:
  73-0100-0-1-376.
Obligations:
  Grants: FY 07 $12,340,000; FY 08 $13,000,000; FY 09 $11,880,000.
  Administration: FY 07 $8,092,000; FY 08 $8,848,000; FY 09 $9,721,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $75,000 to $150,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, training and counseling will be offered at approximately
  100 centers across the nation.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OMB Circulars A-110, A-122, A-21, A-133.
Regional or Local Office:
  Women's business ownership representatives in each SBA district office. See
  Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of the Small Business Administration
  district and regional offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Small Business Administration, Office of Women's Business Ownership, 409
  Third Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20416. Telephone: (202) 205-6673. Use
  the same number for FTS. Contact: Sally Murrell.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.sba.gov/onlinewbc.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  59.005, Internet-Based Technical Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A typical project funded is the Women's Economic Self Sufficiency Team in
  Albuquerque, NM. The project provides in-depth and quality training and
  counseling to women entrepreneurs at numerous locations throughout New
  Mexico.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  As stated in each solicitation for proposals, but including: B. EVALUATION
  CRITERIA FOR WBC APPLICANT TECHNICAL PROPOSAL 1. List of
  Evaluation Criteria a. Applicant Experience and Internal Organizational
  Structure. (20 Points) b. Ability of Applicant to Reach a Representative Number
  of Women Who Are Both Socially and Economically Disadvantaged. (10 Points)
   c. Needs Assessment of Target Location. (10 Points) d. Services and Activities
  the Applicant Plans to Offer to Start-up and Existing Small Businesses Owned
  or Controlled by Women; and the Applicant's Ability to Assist Clients in
  Addressing Sustainability and Growth Issues. (30 Points) e. Plans for
  Coordination with SBA and other Community and Small Business
  Organizations. (10 Points) f. Financial Ability (20 Points) g. Geographic
  Location. (10 points).
59.044 VETERANS BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT
   (VBOP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
AUTHORIZATION:
                                                                                 857
