  Small Business Act of 1953, Sections 8(b)(1)(A) and (B), 15 U.S.C. 637(B)(17).        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To provide long term training, counseling, and mentoring to benefit small             
  business concerns and potential small business concerns owned and                     
  controlled by eligible veterans. Eligible veterans means (A) A veteran who is         
  entitled to compensation (or who but for the receipt of military       retired pay    
  would be entitled to compensation) under laws administered by            the          
  Secretary, (B) a person who was discharged or released from active duty because       
  of a service- connected disability, (C ) a veteran as defined in Section 101 (2) of   
  Title 38, United States Code, or ( D) a member of a reserve component of the          
  armed forces of the United States.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Cooperative Agreements.                                                               
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  To establish Veteran Business Outreach Centers (VBOC) for the benefit of small        
   business concerns and potential small business concerns owned and controlled         
  by eligible veterans.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  An eligible applicant for the VBOC Program is a responsible educational               
  institution, private business, veterans' nonprofit community-based organization,      
  and Federal, State and local departments and agencies for the establishment and       
  implementation of outreach programs for veterans and service disabled veterans.       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  First beneficiaries are eligible veterans and former POWs who seek to start and       
  manage a small business; second beneficiaries are all others.                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Credentials and documentation can be found on the annual program                      
  announcement.                                                                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                        
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Applicants will submit proposals based on a request for proposal (RFP). The

  RFP may request that the applicant apply for a grant or contract. This will be        
  made clear at the time of the RFP is issued. Instructions for applying will be

  contained in the RFP document.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  The proposal will be subject to an independent panel review. The elements of          
  the panel review will include a review of a technical and cost proposals, each        
  under a separate cover. The technical proposal will consist of four sections: (1)     
  Programmatic concept, (2) understanding the problem or need, (3) coordination         
  of resources, and (4)organizational qualifications. The cost proposal will be         
  evaluated based on reasonableness of cost and compliance with OMB Circulars           
  A-110 or A-112. Additionally the cost proposal must contain (1) a                     
  comprehensive development plan, (2) budget preparation, and (3) expenditures          
  for fundraising activities may not be charged as a cost item and demonstration of     
  adequate community based resources to achieve matching formula for                    
  nonfederal funds.                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Designated on the RFP.                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Usually within 30 to 90 days after closing date of the RFP.                           
Appeals:                                                                                
  In accordance with FAR Part 33 if a contract; or not applicable if a grant.           
Renewals:                                                                               
  Subject to the exercise of option years.                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  The applicant must be capable of meeting the non-SBA matching requirements.           
  The applicant must provide letters of commitment from other sources to certify        
  the ability to match SBA contributions. The applicant who becomes a                   
  recipient/contractor must be prepared to report receipt of such contributions no      
  later than the end of each program year.                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Usually not to exceed 12 months for the basic effort and four option years.           
  Funds are made available on a cost reimbursement basis.                               
Reports:                                                                                
  Quarterly performance and financial reports to the SBA Central Office no later        
  than 30 days following the end of the quarter. A final report is due 90 days after    
  the completion of the project year.                                                   
Audits:                                                                                 
  When necessary, on a case-by-case basis.                                              
Records:                                                                                
  The recipient should be prepared to maintain detailed, complete, and accurate         
  client activity records of a sufficiency to reflect clearly the nature and variety of 
  the services provided. Financial records must be maintained until 3 years after       
  the completion of the grant project or submission of the final report, whichever      
  is later. The recipient should be prepared to participate in the development of a     
  program-wide intranet system.                                                         
Account Identification:                                                                 
  73-0100-0-1-376.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            


858                                                                               11-08

  Grants: FY 07 $741,000; FY 08 $743,000; and FY 09 $743,000.
  Administration: FY 07 $3,440,000; FY 08 $4,007,000; and FY 09 $4,720,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $75 to $1,500 per client.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Success stories must be published on the program-wide intranet system and/or
  shared with the SBA.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Contact the Federal agency for more information.
Regional or Local Office:
  For addresses of the SBA field offices, see Appendix IV of the Catalog under
  Small Business Administration.
Headquarters Office:
  Associate Administrator, Office of Veterans Business Development, Small
  Business Administration, Fifth Floor, 409 Third Street, S.W., Washington DC
  20416. Telephone: (202) 205-6773. Contact: Ramona Peyton.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.sba.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  59.005, Internet-Based Technical Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The technical proposal will consist of four sections: (1) Programmatic concept,
  (2) understanding the problem or need, (3) coordination of resources, and (4)
  organizational qualifications. The cost proposal will be evaluated based on
  reasonableness of cost and compliance with OMB Circulars A-110 or A-112.
  Additionally the cost proposal must contain (1) a comprehensive development
  plan, (2) budget preparation, and (3) expenditures for fundraising activities may
  not be charged as a cost item and demonstration of adequate community based
  resources to achieve matching formula for nonfederal funds.
59.046 MICROLOAN PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 102-140, Public Law 102-302, Public Law 102-366 and Public Law
  105-135.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist women, low-income, and minority entrepreneurs, business owners, and
  other individuals possessing the capability to operate successful business
  concerns and to assist small business concerns in those areas suffering from a
  lack of credit due to economic downturns. Under the Program, the Small
  Business Administration (SBA) will make loans or provide guaranties to private,
  non-profit, and quasi-governmental organizations (intermediary lenders) that
  will use the loan funds to make short-term, fixed interest rate microloans in
  amounts up to $35,000 to start-up, newly established, and growing small
  business concerns. These microloans are to be used exclusively for working
  capital, inventory, supplies, furniture, fixtures, machinery, and/or equipment. In
  addition, the SBA will make grants to participating intermediary lenders to
  provide marketing, management, and technical assistance to prospective
  borrowers and borrowers receiving microloans. In addition, the SBA will make
  grants to non-profit organizations, which are not intermediary lenders, to provide
  marketing, management, and technical assistance to low-income individuals
  seeking private sector financing for their businesses. Under the Program, SBA
  will also provide training for intermediary lenders and non-lenders participating
  in the Program.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Direct Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Loans to intermediaries with terms and restrictions as provided in Public Laws
  102-140, 102-366 and 105-135 and subsequent regulations as published in the
  Federal Register.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An applicant is considered eligible to apply if it meets the definition of an
  intermediary lender as published in program materials, 13 CFR, and PL 102-
  140, and meets published minimum experience and capability requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Small businesses, minority entrepreneurs, nonprofit entities, business owners,
  women and low-income, and other individuals possessing the capability to
  operate successful business concerns.
Credentials/Documentation:
  An entity may apply to SBA to become an Intermediary lender. A small
  business may apply to an intermediary for a microloan. Small business seeking
  funding must: (1) Meet SBA size standard requirements as defined in Chapter
  13 of the U.S. Code of Federal Regulations; (2) meet type of business
  requirements as published by SBA; and (3) meet lending requirements of local
  intermediary lenders.
Preapplication Coordination:
