Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Reports:                                                                               
  SBA will request financial information including, but not limited to, financial      
  statements, economic impact and community development information, and               
  portfolio financing reports and valuations. SBA will require both annual and         
  quarterly reports.                                                                   
Audits:                                                                                
  SBA will require an annual financial report performed by an independent public       
  accountant and an annual examination performed by SBA's internal examiners.          
Records:                                                                               
  Appropriate records as needed for requirements of 111 and 112.                       
Account Identification:                                                                
  Guarantees (Loans) 73-1154-0-1-376; Operational Assistance grants (Grants)           
  73-0100-0-1-376.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  Administrative: FY 07 $210,000; FY 08 $242,000; FY 09 $251,000.                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  13 CFR Part 108.                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  SBA, Investment Division, New Markets Venture Capital Program, 409 3rd               
  Street, N.W., Suite 6300, Washington, DC 20416. Telephone: (202) 205-6510.           
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.sba.gov/INV/NMVC .                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Equity venture capital finance experience, community development finance             
  experience, Federal grant administration experience and technical assistance         
  experience.                                                                          
                                                                                       
59.052 NATIVE AMERICAN OUTREACH                                                        
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Small Business Act, as amended; Public Law 108-447; Consolitated                     
  Appropriations Act, 2005.                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To fund economic development projects that will provide small business               
  opportunities and empower American Indians, Native Alaskans and Native               
  Hawaiian entrepreneurs located in disadvantaged and under-served Indian              
  reservations and tribal areas within the U.S.                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Contracts).                                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The projects must have the ability to provide increased entrepreneurial              
  development opportunities for Native Americans, serve as effective models to         
  address the issue of access to SBA information and resources, and have the           
  potential to become best practices for implementation by other entities around

  the country. Program initiatives must assist small businesses in tribal areas on

  the basis of need, realizing that not all Native American tribes, particularly those

                                                                                       
  in remote areas experiencing severe economic hardship, may be aware of this          
  and other SBA programs. Projects must also include a strong outreach                 
  component to ensure that underserved Native American tribes have the                 
  opportunity to participate in the program.                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Organizations must have experience in effectively training, counseling,              
  developing and measuring small business development in Indian Country.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Native American entrepreneurs who are starting their own business or expanding       
  their existing business.                                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is excluded from overage under E.O. 12372.                              
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Proposals are accepted per an annual Request for Proposal advertised in the          
  Federal Register.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  On a project by project basis, proposals of eligible applicants are evaluated by a   
  review panel. The SBA/Office of Procurement and Grants Management issues             
  an award to each approved applicant.                                                 


                                                                                 11-08 
Deadlines:
  Applications/proposals must be submitted by the date indicated in the Request
  for Proposal.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Within 120 days from filing deadline.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  On a case by case need basis, as determined by the contracting officer and the
  program office.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The performance period varies based upon the accepted proposals.
Reports:
  Monthly performance and financial reports are due by the middle of the month
  subsequent to the accomplishment of work. Content of the performance reports
  varies dependent upon the nature of the work and as stipulated in the Request for
  Proposal and resulting contract. Funded projects may be subject to follow-up
  impact analysis as determined by the program office.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  The awardee shall maintain and submit detailed, complete and accurate client
  activity records to reflect clearly the nature and variety of services provided.
  Financial records must be kept until 3 years after the completion and submission
  of the final report.
Account Identification:
  73-0100-0-1-376.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,415,000; FY 08 $1,637,000; FY 09 $1,685,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available at this time.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Contact the Small Business Administration for more information. OMB
  Circulars A-110, A-122, A-21, A-133.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Small Business Administration, Office of Native American Affairs, 409 Third
  Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20416. Contact the Office of Native American
  Affairs.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.sba.gov/naa/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  59.026, Service Corps of Retired Executives; 59.037, Small Business
  Development Centers.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Typical projects include, but not limited to: small business development
  incubator activities; small business training; marketing outreach to Indian
  Country and business development services for specialized projects such as
  reforestation, etc.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Established on a project by project basis to include, but not limited to: viability
  and feasibility, performance history, etc.
59.053 OMBUDSMAN AND REGULATORY FAIRNESS
BOARDS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996, Public Law 104-
  121, (March 29, 1996); 5 U.S.C. 601 note; H.R. 3136.
OBJECTIVES:
  To serve the small business community by receiving comments from small
  businesses, small non-profit organizations or small government entities
  (representing less than 50,000 people) regarding unfair and/or excessive actions
  by Federal Agencies or Agency employees conducting compliance or
  enforcement activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Investigation of Complaints (Compliance Reviews).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Received comments may be confidential or not and be discussed with
  appropriate Federal Agency personnel to seek a timely response to an excessive
  and/or unfair Federal regulatory issue. Hold Hearings throughout the U.S. to
  receive testimony and commentary from small entities about unfair and/or
  excessive Federal regulatory enforcement actions. Comments are also received
  online, by fax, mail or personal delivery.
                                                                                     861
