Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines for program applications are established in the notice of fund           
  availability.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  For grant applicants, from 30 to 60 work days after receipt of items in the        
  Second Submission section of the grant application package, including              
  documentation on acquisition, rehabilitation and new construction; match and       
  feasibility; matching funds; supportive services; and operating budget. For        
  recognition by VA as eligible to receive per diem payments, 30 to 60 days after    
  formal recognition is approved, pending availability of funds.                     
Appeals:                                                                             
  If an application would have been selected but for a procedural error committed    
  by VA, VA will select that application for potential funding when sufficient       
  funds become available, if there is no material change in the information that     
  resulted in its selection. A new application will not be required for this purpose.
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Refer to 38 CFR 17.706. Federal participation provides up to 65 percent of total   
  project cost, with the grant recipient providing the remainder. Once funds are     
  obligated for a grant project, VA will not increase the amount obligated.          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  For the grant program, appropriation expires at the end of each fiscal year.       
  Length of time limitations for the per diem programs are not established,          
  however, per diem is contingent on availability of VA program funds.               
  Reimbursement payments are made to the recipient based on the Federal share of     
  costs incurred.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  Required in accordance with 38 CFR 17.700.

Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  Three categories of records should be maintained by VA and the contractor: (a)     
  contractor fiscal records; (b) contractor treatment records; and (c) VA record     
  summaries of treatment provided. Contractor fiscal records should be               
  maintained by the contractor until they are certified by the General Accounting    
  Office, as guided by Records Control Schedule 10-1. Contractor treatment           
  records should be maintained by the contractor for a period of three years after   
  the date of last patient activity before being disposed of by the contractor.      
  Contractor summaries and related records will be maintained by the appropriate     
  VA health care facility until three years after the last episode of care, then they
  will be filed with VA's Consolidated Health Records for each veteran patient.      
  Consolidated Health Records are retained by the VA facility for 75 years from      
  the last episode of care.                                                          
Account Identification:                                                              
  36-0160-0-1-703.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants & Per Diem) FY 07 $81,187,000; FY 08 est $107,180,000; and FY 09           
  est $122,000,000.                                                                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $12,610 to $541,000.                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  During the first five rounds of funding, more than 400 applications were           
  received, requesting approximately $200 million to acquire, renovate, or           
  construct supportive housing or service center facilities for homeless veterans or 
  to purchase vans for outreach and transportation. Total VA funding for these       
  projects was over $26 million. When these projects are completed,                  
  approximately 2,500 new community-based beds will be available for homeless        
  veterans. Additionally, under this funding, 14 homeless veterans service centers   
  will be established; 20 vans have been purchased by entities to conduct outreach   
  or provide transportation for homeless veterans; and five mobile service center    
  units will provide medical care and/or counseling services for homeless veterans   
  with limited access to treatment. Most programs have been awarded grants for       
  acquiring and renovating facilities. A small number of programs have been          
  awarded a grant for new construction of buildings or acquiring already renovated   
  facilities. Twenty programs were awarded grants to purchase vans for outreach      
  and transportation. The majority of grant funding for housing will create          
  transitional housing for homeless veterans. Of this transitional housing or in     
  addition to it, supportive housing beds will be created for special populations    
  including homeless elderly veterans, female veterans, veterans experiencing        
  mental health or substance abuse problems, and homeless terminally ill veterans.   
   In addition to housing, the funding will also create service centers that provide 
  linkages with other community resources, job training, and/or emergency            
  services in an effort to engage the homeless veteran in more longer term support.  


                                                                                11-08
   The projects funded to purchase vans will be using the vehicles for expanding
  outreach efforts and providing transportation for homeless veterans to VA and
  community services.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Title 38 Code of Federal Regulations 17.700 - 17.731, VA Homeless Providers
  Grant and Per Diem Program.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Manager, VA Homeless Providers Grant and Per Diem Program,
  Mental Health Strategic Healthcare Group (116E), Department of Veterans
  Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20420. Telephone: (202)
  273-8966. (This is not a toll-free number.) Toll-free (1 877) 322-0334.
  Contacts: Victor Harris - Telephone: (202) 273-8443. Roger Casey - Telephone:
  (1 877) 322-0334.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.va.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  As required by 38 CFR 17.700, applications are reviewed, rated and ranked in
  priority order. Selection criteria include: (a) Quality of the project. (b)Targeting
  to persons on street and in shelters. (c) Ability of the applicant to develop and
  operate a project. (d) Need for the type of project proposed in the area to be
  served. (e) Innovative quality of the proposal. (f) Leveraging. (g) Cost
  effectiveness. (h) Coordination with other programs.
64.026 VETERANS STATE ADULT DAY HEALTH CARE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  VETERANS HEALTH ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF VETERANS
  AFFAIRS
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 106-117, Section 101.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide a community-based program designed to meet the needs of adults
  with impairments through individual plans of care. This type of structured,
  comprehensive, nonresidential program provides a variety of health, social, and
  related support services in a protective setting. By supporting families and
  caregivers, an adult day services program enables the person to live in the
  community. An adult day services program assesses the needs of the persons
  served and offers services to meet those needs. The persons served attend on a
  planned basis. Nothing in this generic description of adult day services may be
  construed to modify the specific services or eligibility requirements referenced
  in the definition of adult day care and adult day health.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Adult day health is a supervised daytime program providing skilled nursing and
  rehabilitative therapy services in addition to core services outlined in Public Law
  106-117 Section 101. (1) Adult day health services are only appropriate for
  adults with medical or disabling conditions that require the intervention or
  services of a registered nurse or licensed rehabilitative therapist acting under the
  supervision of the client's physician. (2) The adult day health center must offer
  and provide on site the following services: (a) All core services under PL 106-
  117 Section 101; (b) Skilled nursing services other than routine health
  monitoring with nurse consultation; (c) At least one of the following skilled
  therapy services: physical therapy, occupational therapy, or speech-language
  pathology or audiology, as those services are defined under PL 106-117 Section
  101 respectively; and (d) Psychological or counseling services, including
  assessing for psycho-social therapy need, dementia, abuse or neglect, and
  alcohol or drug abuse; making appropriate referrals; and providing brief,
  intermittent supportive counseling. (a) The following personal care services as
  defined in PL 106-117 Section 101, "personal care services," or its successor: (i)
  Ambulation; (ii) Body care; (iii) Eating; (iv) Positioning; (v) Self-medication;
  (vi) Transfer; (vii) Toileting; (viii) Personal hygiene at a level that ensures client
  safety and comfort while in attendance at the program; and (ix) Bathing at a
  level that ensures client safety and comfort while in attendance at the program.
  (b) Social services on a consultation basis, which may include: (i) Referrals to
  other providers for services not within the scope of Medicaid reimbursed adult
  day care services; (ii) Caregiver support and education; or (iii) Assistance with
  coping skills. (c) Routine health monitoring with consultation from a registered
  nurse that a consulting nurse acting within the scope of practice can provide
  with or without a physician's order. Examples include: (i) Obtaining baseline
  and routine monitoring information on a client's health status, such as vital
  signs, weight, and dietary needs; (ii) General health education such as providing
  information about nutrition, illnesses, and preventive care; (iii) Communicating
  changes in the client's health status to the client's caregiver; (iv) Annual and as
                                                                                      875
