  needed updating of the client's medical record; (v) Assistance as needed with         
  coordination of health services provided outside of the adult day care program.       
  (d) General therapeutic activities that an unlicensed person can provide or that a    
  licensed person can provide with or without a physician's order. These services       
  are planned and provided as an integral part of the client's plan of care and are     
  based on the client's abilities, interests and goals. Examples include: (i)           
  Recreational activities; (ii) Diversionary activities; (iii) Relaxation therapy; (iv) 
  Cognitive stimulation; (v) Group range of motion or conditioning exercises. (e)       
  General health education that an unlicensed person can provide or that a licensed     
  person can provide with or without a physician's order, including but not limited     
  to topics such as: (i) Nutrition; (ii) Stress management; (iii) Disease               
  management skills; (iv) Preventive care. (f) A nutritional meal and snacks            
  provided each four-hour period at regular times comparable to normal meal             
  times, including modified diet if needed and within the scope of the program, as      
  provided under Public Law 106-117 Section 101; (g) Supervision and/or                 
  protection for clients who require supervision or protection for their safety; (h)    
  Assistance with arranging transportation to and from the program; and (i) First       
  aid and provisions for obtaining or providing care in an emergency.                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  52.50 Eligible veterans. A veteran is an eligible veteran under this part if VA       
  determines that the veteran meets the definition of a veteran in 38 U.S.C. 101, is    
  not barred from receiving this VA care under 38 U.S.C. 5303, 5303A, needs             
  adult day health care, and is within one of the following Categories listed below:    
  Public Law 106-117 Section 101, Adult Day Health-Eligibility. (a) Veterans            
  with service-connected disabilities; (b) Veterans who are former prisoners of         
                                                                                        
  war; (c) Veterans who were discharged or released from active military service

                                                                                        
  for a disability incurred or aggravated in the line of duty; (d) Veterans who

                                                                                        
  receive disability compensation under 38 U.S.C. 1151; (e) Veterans whose

                                                                                        
  entitlement to disability compensation is suspended because of the receipt of

                                                                                        
  retired pay; (f) Veterans whose entitlement to disability compensation is

                                                                                        
  suspended pursuant to 38 U.S.C. 1151, but only to the extent that such veterans

                                                                                        
  continuing eligibility for adult day health care is provided for in the judgment or   
  settlement described in 38 U.S.C. 1151; (g) Veterans who VA determines are            
  unable to defray the expenses of necessary care as specified under 38 U.S.C.          
  1722(a); (h) Veterans of the Mexican Border period or of World War I; (i)             
  Veterans solely seeking care for a disorder associated with exposure to a toxic

  substance or radiation or for a disorder associated with service in the Southwest

  Asia theater of operations during the Gulf War, as provided in 38 U.S.C.              
  1710(e); (j) Veterans who agree to pay to the United States the applicable co-        
  payment determined under 38 U.S.C. 1710(f) and 1710(g), if they seek VA               
  (Department of Veterans Affairs) hospital, nursing home, or outpatient care.

  (Authority: 38 U.S.C. 101, 501, 1741, 1743).                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  A veteran eligible for care in a VA facility needing adult day health care and        
  meeting one of the following conditions: (a) has a service-connected disability       
  for which such care is being provided; (b) has a non-service connected disability     
                                                                                        
  and sates under oath his inability to defray the expenses of necessary adult day

                                                                                        
  health care; (c) was discharged or related from active military, naval and air

                                                                                        
  services for a disability incurred or aggravated in the line of duty; or (d) is in

                                                                                        
  receipt of, or but for the receipt of retirement pay would be entitled to receive

                                                                                        
  disability compensation. A veteran must also meet State admission criteria.

                                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                        
  None.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                        
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Letter of application from State addressed to the Chief Consultant, Geriatrics        
  and Extended Care (114) Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue,           
  N.W. Washington DC 20420.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Recognition by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for purposes of VA aid               
  pursuant to Title 38 U.S.C. Section 1741.                                             
Deadlines:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  From 30 to 60 days.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  38 U.S.C. 1741. For each veteran provided adult day health care, formula              
  payments to the State are $64.13 per diem, or one-half the cost of care,              
  whichever is less.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  There is no length limitation; grant payments are made monthly to the state.          
Reports:                                                                                
  Monthly reports and quarterly statements of Federal aid claims are filed by the       
  State with VA field station of jurisdiction.                                          
Audits:                                                                                 


876                                                                               11-08

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003). "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $400,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirement for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133."
Records:
  Cost records on which quarterly statements are based and attendance records to
  support report for days of care provided to veteran.
Account Identification:
  36-0160-0-1-703.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $362,000; FY 08 est $380,000; and FY 09 est $399,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $22,686 to $165,077; average $93,882.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The State Home ADHC program was able to provide outpatient adult day
  healthcare to 20 participants in FY 2007 and is estimated to provide for 21 and
  22 participants in FY 2008 and FY 2009, respectively.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  VA Manual M-1, Part I, Chapter 3, State Veterans Homes, and M-5, Part VIII.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for Veterans Hospital Facilities.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief Consultant, Geriatrics and Extended Care Service (114), Department of
  Veterans Affairs, Washington DC 20420. Chief, State Home Per Diem Program.
   Telephone: (202) 461-6771.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.va.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  64.010, Veterans Nursing Home Care.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
64.100 AUTOMOBILES AND ADAPTIVE EQUIPMENT FOR
CERTAIN DISABLED VETERANS AND MEMBERS OF THE
ARMED FORCES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  VETERANS AFFAIRS
AUTHORIZATION:
  38 U.S.C. 39.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance to certain disabled servicepersons and veterans
  toward the purchase price of an automobile or other conveyance and an
  additional amount for adaptive equipment deemed necessary to insure the
  eligible person will be able to operate or make use of the automobile or other
  conveyance. To provide adaptive equipment only for certain other disabled
  veterans.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance toward purchase of an automobile or other conveyance is a one-time
  payment only. Necessary adaptive equipment may be furnished, repaired,
  replaced, or reinstalled on a conveyance which may be purchased with
  assistance or any other conveyance subsequently or previously acquired.
  Adaptive equipment will be provided for no more than two conveyances during
  any four-year period unless one of those two vehicles becomes unavailable to the
  veteran.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Veterans with honorable service and servicepersons on active duty having a
  service-connected disability due to loss or permanent loss of use of one or both
  feet, one or both hands, or a permanent impairment of vision of both eyes to a
  prescribed degree. For adaptive equipment only, eligibility also exists if there is
  service-connected ankylosis of one or both knees or one or both hips.
  Servicepersons on active duty also qualify under the same criteria as veterans.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Disabled servicepersons and veterans.
Credentials/Documentation:
  DD Form 214, "Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty".
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  An application (VA Form 21-4502) may be obtained from any VA Office or
  Regional Office (see Appendix IV of the Catalog) and submitted to the Regional
  Office. Applications are also available on-line at http://www.va.gov/vaforms/.
