CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
64.103 LIFE INSURANCE FOR VETERANS                                                     
                                                                                       
      (GI Insurance)                                                                   
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                      
  VETERANS AFFAIRS                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  War Risk Insurance Act, as amended, Public Law 65-90; World War Veterans             
  Act, Public Law 68-242, as amended; National Service Life Insurance Act,             
  Public Law 76-801, as amended; Servicemen's Indemnity and Insurance Act,             
  Public Law 82-23; Public Law 88-664; Public Law 92-95, as amended;                   
  Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance, Public Law 89-214, Public Law 105-             
  368; as amended; Family Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance, Public Law             
  107-14; Traumatic Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance, Public Law 109-13;           
  Public Law 109-80; Veterans Group Life Insurance, Public Law 93-289; Public          
  Law 105-368; 38 U.S.C. 1903, 1922, 1923, 1925, 1941, 2106 and Subchapter             
  III.                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide life insurance protection for veterans of World War I, World War II,      
  Korean conflict, Vietnam conflict, Gulf era conflicts and service-disabled           
  veterans separated from active duty on or after April 25, 1951, and to provide       
  mortgage protection life insurance for those disabled veterans who are given a       
  VA grant to secure specially adapted housing under Chapter 21, Title 38, U.S.C.      
   Also to provide life insurance protection for current members of the uniformed      
  services with coverage on their lives and the lives of their spouses and children.   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Loans.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Life insurance settlement upon death of insured; or the insured may personally       
  surrender a permanent plan policy for cash; or the insured may be granted a loan     
  up to 94 percent of the cash surrender value of a permanent plan policy. Interest    
  on United States Government Life Insurance (WWI) policy loans is charged at          
  the rate of 5 percent per annum. Interest is charged at a variable rate which may    
  change annually for National Service Life (WWII), Veterans Special Life              
  (Korean conflict), Service-Disabled Veterans (Korean Conflict and Continuing)        
  and Veterans Reopened Insurance policies. The variable rate equals the yield on      
  the Ten-Year Constant Maturities Index for U.S. Treasury Securities for the          
  month of June of each year rounded down to the next whole percentage. This           
  loan rate is effective from the first day of October of each year and will not       
  exceed 12 percent or be lower than 5 percent per annum. Dividends are paid on        
  United States Government Life (WWI), National Service Life (WWII), Veterans          
  Special Life (Korean Conflict), and Veterans Reopened Insurance. Dividends are       
  not paid on Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance (Korean Conflict and                 
  continuing), or the Veterans Mortgage Life Insurance. The face amount of the         
  policy, less any indebtedness on the policy, is payable to the designated            
  beneficiary upon the insured's death under a regular life policy, and only to the    
  mortgage holder under Veterans Mortgage Life Insurance coverage. In                  
  Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance, life insurance settlement upon death of        
  insured, insured's spouse or insured's dependent children and the Accelerated        
  Benefits Option can be used on both the member's own coverage and coverage           
  of the member's spouse. In Veterans' Group Life Insurance, life insurance            
  settlement upon death of the insured.                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  All of the programs are closed for new issues except Service-Disabled Veterans       
  Insurance, Veterans Mortgage Life Insurance, Service members' Group Life             
  Insurance and Veterans Group Life Insurance. A veteran discharged from active        
  military duty, on or after April 25, 1951, who has been granted a service            
  connection for a new disability, and who, if not for the disability would be         
  otherwise insurable in accordance with the established standards of good health,     
  applies for such coverage within 2 years from the date of notice of the VA           
  service-connected rating, may be issued Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance.         
  (The time period in which to apply is limited to one year from the date of notice    
  of the VA service-connected rating if the notice was provided before September       
  1, 1991.) A veteran insured under Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance who            
  qualifies for waiver of premiums, who is under age 65 and who applies within         
  one year from date of notice from VA that he/she qualifies for waiver of             
  premiums, may be issued Supplemental Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance             
  coverage. A veteran who has been given a VA grant for specially adapted              
  housing will be sent notice that he/she is automatically insured for mortgage        
  protection unless he/she elects in writing not to be so insured, or fails to respond 
  within 60 days after a final request for information on which premium can be         
  based is mailed to him/her. Service members are automatically covered for the        
  maximum coverage amount of life insurance on themselves and a spouse, unless         
  the member declines or reduces the coverage in writing. Service members are          
  also automatically covered by Servicemembers' Traumatic Injury Protection            
  (TSGLI), which provides automatic traumatic injury coverage to all service           


878                                                                              11-08

  members under SGLI. TSGLI provides for payment between $25,000 and
  $100,000 (depending on the type of injury) to SGLI members who sustain a
  traumatic injury that results in certain severe losses. Coverage of children is on
  "dependent" children and no premium is paid. Veterans are eligible to convert
  their Service members' Group Life Insurance in an amount up to the coverage
  held on their date of discharge. If a veteran is totally disabled at time of
  discharge, the veteran is eligible for a one-year disability extension of their
  Service members' Group Life Insurance and the conversion to Veterans' Group
  Life Insurance.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The veteran may apply for either type of insurance. However, if the veteran is
  mentally incompetent, a VA recognized fiduciary may apply on his/her behalf
  for Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance. Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance
  may also be granted under certain conditions to mentally incompetent veterans
  who were otherwise eligible for such insurance, but due to their incompetency,
  died without filing an application.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The veteran may apply for either type of insurance. However, if the veteran is
  mentally incompetent, a VA recognized fiduciary may apply on his/her behalf
  for Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance. Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance
  may also be granted under certain conditions to mentally incompetent veterans
  who were otherwise eligible for such insurance, but due to their incompetency,
  died without filing an application.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  None.
Award Procedure:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Deadlines:
  Upon receipt of VA's notice of eligibility for Service-Disabled Veterans
  Insurance, a veteran may apply by submitting the application on VA Form 29-
  4364. Upon receipt of notice from VA that he/she qualifies for waiver of
  premiums, an individual insured under Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance
  may apply for additional supplemental coverage by submitting an application on
  VA Form 29-0190. He/she may be guided by VA Pamphlet 29-9 in selecting the
  type of policy. The form and pamphlet may be obtained from the nearest VA
  office (listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog) and submitted to the Philadelphia
  VA Regional Office and Insurance Center, P.O. Box 7208, Philadelphia, PA
  19101. A veteran eligible for Veterans Mortgage Life Insurance need only
  submit information and documentation to the Philadelphia VA Regional Office
  and Insurance Center, P.O. Box 7208, Philadelphia, PA 19101. For Veterans'
  Group Life Insurance, veterans must make application on SGLV 8283. Veterans
  must apply for the Disability Extension of Service members' Group Life
  Insurance on SGLV 8715. These applications are sent to OSGLI, P.O. Box
  41618, Philadelphia, PA 19176. For a TSGLI payment, the member must use
  the TSGLI Certification form, GL.2005.261 to apply for TSGLI benefits. The
  TSGLI certification form has three parts. Part A must be completed by the
  service member, the appointed guardian, or the attorney-in-fact and Part B must
  be completed by the attending medical professional. The form must then be
  submitted to the member's branch of service TSGLI certifying official for
  completion of Part C. Names and addresses of the TSGLI certifying officials for
  each branch of service can be found in the TSGLI Procedures Guide on the
  Department of Veteran's Affairs Insurance website. Once this determination is
  made, the certifying official will forward the certification form to OSGLI.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance is issued by the Philadelphia Regional
  Office and Insurance Center to any veteran meeting the requirements listed
  under Applicant Eligibility above. Veterans Mortgage Life Insurance is
  automatically issued to all veterans receiving a grant for specially adapted
  housing. Veterans' Group Life Insurance and Disability Extension of Service
  members' Group Life Insurance are issued by the Office of Service members'
  Group Life Insurance to any veteran meeting the requirements listed under the
  Applicant Eligibility above.
Appeals:
  Generally within 2 years following the date of notice of VA's service-connected
  rating for Service-Disabled Insurance (the time period in which to apply is
  limited to one year from the date of notice of the VA Service-Connected rating if
  the notice was provided before September 1, 1991.) Check with local VA office
  for exceptions. For Service-Disabled Veterans Insurance supplemental coverage,
  the time period in which to apply is one year from the date of VA's notice that
  the veteran qualifies for waiver of premiums. For Veterans Mortgage Life
  Insurance the veteran must apply before age 70. For Veterans' Group Life
  Insurance, the veteran has 120 days from discharge to convert with no
  requirement of good health. A veteran has another year in which conversion can
  be done, but good health required. For the Disability Extension of
  Servicemembers' Group Life Insurance, the veteran must make application
  within the two-year period for which the extension would be granted. There are
  currently no time limits for TSGLI claims.
Renewals:
