  all benefits legislated by the Congress for veterans of the active military, naval or  
  air service of this country (to include the Public Health Service, the National        
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, and certain World War II Merchant              
  Marines). These include compensation, pension, loan guaranty, vocational

  rehabilitation and employment, and education, insurance, hospitalization,              
  domiciliary care, outpatient medical and dental treatment, automobiles and

  specially adapted houses for disabled veterans, burial and survivor's benefits.

                                                                                         
  They help the veteran and dependents file claims, secure supporting evidence           
  and, on request, represent the claimant to the VA adjudicative or medical

  authorities. Special outreach emphasis is placed on specific target populations.       
  These include the aged, the ill, former prisoners of war, women veterans,              
  recently separated veterans, survivors of service members killed on active duty,       
  and the homeless. Service includes providing information and personal service          
  on matters which affect veterans, but are under the jurisdiction of other Federal,     
  State, county or local agencies.                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  Generally, veterans, their dependents and beneficiaries, their representatives or      
  other interested parties.                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  Eligibility for the benefits is controlled by specific legislation, but the assistance 
  is available to all.                                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  None for assistance, although various proofs are needed for the benefits.              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  All recently discharged or separated veterans are furnished a package of               
  informational materials on the full range of veterans benefits. This program is        
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                               
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  Phone, write or visit the nearest VA regional office, Center or VA Office listed       
  in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                         
  Veterans and dependents are provided with necessary applications for benefits          
  and are assisted in the preparation of the applications, which are then forwarded      
  to the appropriate units within VA for development.                                    
Deadlines:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Appeals:                                                                                 
  Personnel provide assistance with development of appeals for basic benefits.           
Renewals:                                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                         
  Not applicable.

                                                                                         
Reports:

  Not applicable.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Records:                                                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                                  
  Not identified separately.                                                             
Obligations:                                                                             
  (Salaries and Expenses) Not Separately Identifiable. (NOTE: The responsibility         
  for assistance and funds has been spread to the five direct programs to facilitate     
  GPRA implementation.)                                                                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  More than 21 million contacts are completed annually.                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  "Federal Benefits for Veterans and Dependents," VA Pamphlet 80-0-01, $5.00,            
  available from Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA            
  15250-7954. The stock number is: 051-000-00233-4. "A Summary of VA                     
  Benefits," VA Pamphlet 21-00-1; VA Benefits for Survivors, VA Pamphlet 21-             
  03-1; and on-line at www.va.gov.                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  Application and contact should be made with the Veterans Benefits                      
  Administration field offices as shown in Appendix IV of the Catalog under              
  Veterans Benefits Administration.                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Department of Veterans Affairs, Washington, DC 20420. Telephone: (202) 461-            
  9700.                                                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.va.gov.                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  17.803, Uniformed Services Employment and Reemployment Rights; 27.002,                 
  Federal Employment Assistance for Veterans.                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             


884                                                                                11-08

  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
64.116 VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION FOR DISABLED
VETERANS
   (Vocational Rehabilitation)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  VETERANS AFFAIRS
AUTHORIZATION:
  Veterans' Rehabilitation and Education Amendments of 1980, Public Laws 96-
  466, 101-237, 101-508, 102-16, 102-83, 102-568, 104-275, 38 U.S.C. 3102.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide all services and assistance necessary to enable service-disabled
  veterans and service persons hospitalized or receiving outpatient medical care
  services or treatment for a service- connected disability pending discharge to get
  and keep a suitable job. When employment is not reasonably feasible, the
  program can provide the needed services and assistance to help the individual
  achieve maximum independence in daily living.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use; Direct Payments for Specified Use;
  Direct Loans; Advisory Services and Counseling.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The program offers the services and assistance necessary for an individual to
  increase their level of independence in daily living, or obtain and retain suitable
  employment. This is employment that matches the individual's aptitudes,
  interests, and abilities and does not worsen the individual's disabilities. An
  individual may reach an employment goal directly by receiving job seeking and
  job placement services. If direct placement is not possible, the program provides
  education or training to qualify the individual for employment. If the individual
  requires education or training, the program provides for direct payment to
  service providers for the entire cost of tuition, books, fees, supplies, and other
  services. As part or all of a rehabilitation program, individuals may receive
  services and training designed to help them increase their level of independence
  in their homes and communities. Counseling services are provided to the
  individual throughout his or her participation in the program. In addition to
  disability compensation, the veteran receives a monthly subsistence allowance
  when participating in training at least half-time. Advances of up to $1,041.48
  may be made to veterans to meet unexpected financial difficulties. These
  advances do not bear interest and are repaid out of future VA benefit payments.
  Although no set repayment period is established, the monthly rate of repayment
  may not generally be less than 10 percent. In general, a new advance may not be
  made until a previous advance has been fully repaid. Usually, the training phase
  of the rehabilitation program may not exceed the equivalent of 48 months of
  full-time benefits nor may training be provided more than 12 years after the
  individual becomes eligible to apply for the program. Following training, or
  sometimes as the whole of a rehabilitation program, the veteran may also receive
  up to 18 months of counseling, job placement and post-placement services. The
  veteran may receive an employment adjustment allowance equal to 2 months of
  subsistence during this period of services, but only if employability was
  achieved as a result of services received in a program which included training.
  Veterans who meet certain requirements may receive assistance to become self-
  employed.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Veterans of World War II and later service with a service-connected disability or
  disabilities rated at least 20 percent compensable and certain service-disabled
  servicepersons pending discharge or release from service if VA determines the
  servicepersons will likely receive at least a 20 percent rating and they need
  vocational rehabilitation because of an employment handicap. Veterans with a
  10 percent service-connected disability may be eligible if they first applied for
  vocational rehabilitation prior to November 1, 1990, and they have an
  employment handicap. In addition, veterans with compensable ratings of 10
  percent may also be eligible if they are found to have a serious employment
  handicap.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Veterans of World War II and later service with a service-connected disability or
  disabilities rated at least 20 percent compensable and certain service-disabled
  servicepersons pending discharge or release from service if VA determines the
  servicepersons will likely receive at least a 20 percent rating and they need
  vocational rehabilitation because of an employment handicap. Veterans with
  compensable ratings of 10 percent may also be eligible if they are found to have
  a serious employment handicap.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
