TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  VA may guarantee a lender against loss on a loan made to an eligible applicant     
  to buy a new or used manufactured home and/or to buy or improve a lot for          
  placement of a manufactured home, or to refinance an existing VA guaranteed or     
  insured loan previously obtained on the same manufactured home and/or lot          
  which the veteran or the veteran's surviving spouse (if such surviving spouse      
  was an obligor under such existing loan) owns and occupies, to obtain a lower      
  rate of interest; or to refinance an existing manufactured home loan to acquire a  
  lot on which such manufactured home is or will be placed. Restrictions on          
  guaranteed VA manufactured home loans are: (a) the terms of repayment must         
  bear a proper relationship to applicant's present and anticipated income and       
  expenses and the applicant must be a satisfactory credit risk; (b) the applicant   
  must certify that he or she intends to occupy the property as his or her home;     
  previous occupancy is acceptable for loans to refinance existing VA-guaranteed     
  loans to a lower interest rate; (c) the manufactured home must contain living      
  facilities for year round occupancy; (d) used manufactured homes must meet         
  construction and acceptability standards. There are limitations on the term of a   
  loan, depending on the purpose. The maximum term is 20 years and 32 days for       
  a single-wide manufactured home or a combination single-wide manufactured          
  home and lot, 23 years and 32 days for a double-wide manufactured home, 25         
  years and 32 days for a double-wide unit and lot, and 15 years and 32 days for a   
  lot only on which a manufactured home already owned by the applicant will be       
  placed. The loan amount may not exceed an amount equal to 95 percent of the        
  purchase price of the property securing the loan.                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  (a) Veterans who served on active duty on or after September 16, 1940, and were    
  discharged or released under conditions other than dishonorable. Veterans who      
                                                                                     
  served any time during World War II, the Korean Conflict, the Vietnam-era, or

                                                                                     
  the Persian Gulf War must have served on active duty 90 days or more; veterans

                                                                                     
  with peacetime service only must have served a minimum of 181 days

                                                                                     
  continuous active duty. All veterans separated from enlisted service which began

                                                                                     
  after September 7, 1980, or service as an officer which began after October 16,

                                                                                     
  1981, must also have served at least 24 months of continuous active duty or the

                                                                                     
  full period for which the person was called or ordered to active duty. Veterans of

                                                                                     
  such recent service may qualify with less service time if they have a

                                                                                     
  compensable service-connected disability or were discharged after at least 181

                                                                                     
  days (90 days during Persian Gulf War) under the authority of 10 U.S.C. 1171 or

                                                                                     
  1173; (b) any veteran in the above classes with less service but discharged with a

                                                                                     
  service-connected disability; (c) individuals may also be eligible if they were    
  released from active duty due to an involuntary reduction in force, certain        
  medical conditions, or in some instances, for the convenience of the               
  Government; (d) unmarried surviving spouses of otherwise eligible veterans who     
  died in service or whose deaths were attributable to service-connected             
  disabilities; (e) service personnel who have served at least 181 days on           
  continuous active duty status (90 days until the ending date for the Persian Gulf  
  War has been set); (f) the spouse of any member of the Armed Forces serving on     
  active duty who is listed as missing in action, or as a prisoner of war, and has   
  been so listed for a total of more than 90 days; (g) members of the Selected       
  Reserve who are not otherwise eligible for home loan benefits and who have         
  completed a total of six (6) years in the Selected Reserves, followed by an

  honorable discharge, placement on the retired list, or continued service.

  Individuals who completed less than 6 years may be eligible if discharged for a    
  service-connected disability. Eligibility for Selected Reservists expires          
  September 30, 2009. Applicants must have sufficient present and prospective        
  income to meet loan repayment terms and have a satisfactory credit record.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Veterans, servicepersons, and certain unmarried surviving spouses of veterans.     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Evidence of the veteran's service or certificate of eligibility for loan benefits  
  issued by the Department of Veterans Affairs. Loan applications submitted by       
  lenders must be accompanied by verification of income of the applicant and a       
  credit report.                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Eligible veterans should: (a) obtain a Certificate of Eligibility from the VA

                                                                                     
  Eligibility Center, (b) present it with the housing proposal to a private lender

                                                                                     
  willing to make the loan. Application for guaranty is made by the lender to the

                                                                                     
  VA Regional Loan Center having jurisdiction over the locality in which the

                                                                                     
  manufactured home is to be placed.                                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The processing VA office will issue the lender evidence of its guaranty after      
  requirements are met and proceeds are disbursed.                                   
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  From one to five days after receipt of loan application in VA.

                                                                                     
Appeals:



                                                                               11-08 
  Denial of eligibility is appealable through Board of Veterans' Appeals. In the
  event of a denial, claimants are advised of appeal rights and procedures at the
  time of notification.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The guaranty is $20,000 or 40 percent of the loan amount, whichever is less.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  As a condition of continued guaranty coverage, the holder of the loan must
  notify the guaranteeing VA office of the borrower's default on installment
  payments or other contract terms, and of any substantive changes in the terms of
  the contract or the guaranty. Reporting time limitations are specified in VA
  regulations.
Audits:
  VA has the right to audit loan accounting records until expiration of the
  guaranty.
Records:
  Until VA ceases to be liable as the guarantor of a loan, the lender or loan holder
  must maintain adequate records on the amount and dates of payments received
  and disbursements made on guaranteed loans.
Account Identification:
  36-4129-0-3-704.
Obligations:
  (Guaranteed Loans) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The guaranty is $20,000 or 40 percent of the loan amount, whichever is less.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007 and 2008, no manufactured home loans were guaranteed. In
  fiscal year 2009, no loans are expected.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  38 CFR 36.4200; VA Pamphlet 26-71-1, "Questions and Answers on
  Manufactured Home Loans to Veterans."
Regional or Local Office:
  See Veterans Benefits Administration field office listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Veterans Affairs, Washington, DC 20420. Telephone: (202) 461-
  9511.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.va.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.110, Manufactured Home Loan Insurance_ Financing Purchase of
  Manufactured Homes as Principal Residences of Borrowers; 14.127, Mortgage
  Insurance_Manufactured Home Parks; 64.106, Specially Adapted Housing for
  Disabled Veterans; 64.114, Veterans Housing_Guaranteed and Insured Loans;
  64.118, Veterans Housing_Direct Loans for Certain Disabled Veterans.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
64.120 POST-VIETNAM ERA VETERANS' EDUCATIONAL
ASSISTANCE
   (Voluntary-Contributory Matching Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  VETERANS AFFAIRS
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Laws 94-502, 99-576, 100-689, 101-237, 102- 16, 102-127, 102-484,
  102-568, 103-446, 104-275, 105-114, 105-368; 106- 117, 106-419, 107-103; 38
  U.S.C. 3221.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide educational assistance to persons entering the Armed Forces after
  December 31, 1976, and before July 1, 1985; to assist persons in obtaining an
  education they might otherwise not be able to afford; and to promote and assist
  the all volunteer military program of the United States by attracting qualified
  persons to serve in the Armed Forces.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Participants may pursue: (1) courses at colleges and universities leading to
  associate, bachelor or graduate degrees (including courses taken via accredited
  independent study, provided those courses lead to a standard college degree or a
  certificate that reflects educational attainment offered by an institution of higher
  learning); (2) courses leading to a certificate or diploma from colleges or
  universities or from business, technical or vocational schools; (3) apprenticeship
                                                                                     887
