  or on-the-job training programs for individuals not on active duty; (4)              
  correspondence courses, under certain conditions; (5) flight training, if the        
  individual holds a private pilot license and meets the medical requirements upon     
  beginning the training program; (6) state-approved teacher certification             
  programs; (7) preparatory courses for tests necessary for admission to a college     
  or graduate school; (8) reimbursement for licensing and certification tests          
  approved for veterans; (9) entrepreneurship training; (10) reimbursement for         
  national exams for admission to college or for college credit.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  The participant must have entered on active duty on or after January 1, 1977,        
  and before July 1, 1985, and either served on active duty for more than 180          
  continuous days receiving an other than dishonorable discharge, or have been         
  discharged after January, 1, 1977 because of a service-connected disability. Also    
  eligible are participants who serve for more than 180 days and who continue on       
  active duty and have completed their first period of obligated service (or 6 years   
  of active duty, whichever comes first). Participants must also have satisfactorily   
  contributed to the program. (Satisfactory contribution consists of monthly           
  deduction of $25 to $100 from military pay, up to a maximum of $2,700, for           
  deposit in a special training fund.) Participants may make lump-sum                  
  contributions. No individuals on active duty in the Armed Forces may initially       
  begin contributing to this program after March 31, 1987.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Post-Vietnam era veterans.                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Military discharge certificate, certification of enrollment by educational           
  institution in approved courses leading to an educational, professional or           
  vocational objective and such other certifications as may be developed by VA         
  and the Department of Defense.                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  An application form (VA Form 22-1990) may be obtained from any VA office             
  or regional office and submitted to the appropriate VA regional processing           
  office.

Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Awards are authorized at the designated VA Regional Processing Office.

                                                                                       
Deadlines:

  Generally, eligibility ceases at the end of 10 years from the date of the            
  participant's last discharge or release from qualifying active duty after January 1,

  1977. Participants may use their entitlement at any time during this 10-year         
  period and are not required to use it in consecutive months. The basic 10-year       
  period may be extended for those veterans who were prevented from beginning          
  or completing their chosen program of education because they were held by a          
  foreign government or power or because of a physical or mental disability not        
  the result of their own willful misconduct. The 10-year period can also be           
  extended for those who reenter active duty for 90 days or more after becoming        
  eligible.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  At least 84.76 percent of applications are processed within 90 days or less in       
  2006 and 99.59 percent in 2007.                                                      
Appeals:                                                                               
  Appeals are available through a special board; response time is 109.0 days in        
  2006 and 112.4 days in 2007.                                                         
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Contributions to the program will be accumulated from service persons electing       
  to participate in the program; the Department of Defense (DOD) matches the           
  service person's contributions at a rate of $2 for each $1 contributed by the        
  participant. In some cases, additional contributions may be made by DOD.             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Available within ten years of first date of discharge or release from service or     
  until the amount of money in the special fund, converted to months of                
  entitlement (to a maximum of 36) is exhausted. Assistance checks generally to        
  be released on a monthly basis.                                                      
Reports:                                                                               
  The educational allowance will not be paid if the participant does not pursue his    
  or her course in accordance with established policies and regulations of the         
  educational institution he or she attends, and is not making satisfactory progress   
  as required by law and VA Regulations. Certification by the educational              
  institution as to the participant's enrollment must be made for each period for      
  which assistance is sought. Certifications for course enrollment and pursuit not     
  leading to a standard college degree must be made monthly by the participant;        
  for courses leading to a standard college degree, periodic verifications of pursuit  
  are required.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                


888                                                                              11-08

  36-8133-0-7-702.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $2,256,000; FY 08 est $2,256,000; and FY 09 est
  $2,172,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Up to a maximum of $8,100 of basic benefits. Work study allowances: Payment
  based on the higher of the Federal minimum wage or the State minimum wage
  where work is performed. Tutorial assistance up to a maximum of $1,200.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  For fiscal year 2007, there were 439 students trained; estimates for fiscal year
  2008 and fiscal year 2009 are 550 and 550 students, respectively.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  38 CFR 21.5001 - 21.5270 "Federal Benefits For Veterans and Dependents," VA
  Pamphlet 80-0-01, $5.00, available from Superintendent of Documents, P.O.
  Box 371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954 or from the online government
  bookstore at www.bookstore.gpo.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for Veterans Benefits Administration Field
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Veterans Affairs, Central Office, Washington, DC 20420.
  Telephone: (202) 461-9800.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.GIBILL.va.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  64.124, All-Volunteer Force Educational Assistance; 84.007, Federal
  Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants; 84.032, Federal Family
  Education Loans; 84.038, Federal Perkins Loan Program_Federal Capital
  Contributions; 84.063, Federal Pell Grant Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
64.124 ALL-VOLUNTEER FORCE EDUCATIONAL
ASSISTANCE
   (Montgomery GI-Bill Active Duty (MGIB) - Chapter 30)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  VETERANS AFFAIRS
AUTHORIZATION:
  Title 38 U.S.C., Chapter 30. Also known as the Montgomery GI Bill (MGIB).
OBJECTIVES:
  To help servicepersons readjust to civilian life after their separation from
  military service. Assist in the recruitment and retention of highly qualified
  personnel in the active and reserve components in the Armed Forces by
  providing education benefits.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The following types of programs may be approved for training under the
  Montgomery GI Bill: (1) courses at colleges and universities leading to
  associate, bachelor or graduate degrees (including courses taken via accredited
  independent study, provided those courses lead to a standard college degree or a
  certificate that reflects educational attainment offered by an institution of higher
  learning); (2) courses leading to a certificate or diploma from business, technical
  or vocational schools; (3) apprenticeship or on-the-job training programs for
  individuals not on active duty; (4) correspondence courses; (5) flight training, if
  veteran holds a private pilot license and meets the medical requirements upon
  beginning the training program; (6) state-approved teacher certification
  programs; (7) preparatory courses for tests necessary for admission to a college
  or graduate school; (8) reimbursement for licensing and certification tests
  approved for veterans; (9) entrepreneurship training; (10) reimbursement for
  national exams for admission to college or for college credit.
Applicant Eligibility:
  What follows is not a complete list of eligibility requirements. For more
  information on the newest MGIB program changes go to the VA web-site
  address listed below. A high school diploma or equivalency certificate is always
  required for eligibility to the MGIB as is an honorable discharge from the
  qualifying period of service unless the individual is currently on active duty. (1)
  Individuals initially entering military service on or after July 1, 1985 may be
  eligible unless they specifically elect not to participate in the MGIB program.
  Service members can use the MGIB benefit after completing two continuous
  years of service. Veterans whose initial obligation was 3 years or more may use
  the MGIB benefit after completing three continuous years of active duty, or less
  time if discharged early for an acceptable reason. Veterans whose initial
  obligation was less than 3 years may use the MGIB benefits after serving two
  years of active duty, or less time if discharged early for an acceptable reason or if
