  active duty must be under conditions other than dishonorable. For veterans, the        
  discharge or release from active duty must have been under conditions other            
  than dishonorable. This counseling is also available to current beneficiaries of       
  VA educational assistance including: Chapter 30 - All-Volunteer Force                  
  Educational Assistance Program; Chapter 32 - Post-Vietnam Era Veterans'                
  Educational Assistance; Chapter 35 - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational            
  Assistance; Chapter 1606 - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selective         
  Service; Chapter 1607 - Reserve Educational Assistance Program and to                  
  veterans and qualified dependents who are eligible for educational assistance          
  under any of the above programs (Chapters).                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  Service members must be within 180 days of projected discharge or release from         
  active duty. Veterans must be within 1 year from the date of discharge or release      
  from active duty. For servicemembers, the projected discharge or release from          
  active duty must be under conditions other than dishonorable. For veterans, the        
  discharge or release from active duty must have been under conditions other            
  than dishonorable. This counseling is also available to current beneficiaries of       
  VA educational assistance including: Chapter 30 - All-Volunteer Force                  
  Educational Assistance Program; Chapter 32 - Post-Vietnam Era Veterans'                
  Educational Assistance; Chapter 35 - Survivors' and Dependents' Educational            
  Assistance; Chapter 1606 - Educational Assistance for Members of the Selective         
  Service; Chapter 1607 - Reserve Educational Assistance Program and to                  
  veterans and qualified dependents who are eligible for educational assistance          
  under any of the above programs (Chapters).                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  Servicemembers must present proof that they are within 180 of projected                
  discharge or release from active duty. Examples of this proof are a copy of the        
  enlistment contract and a brief written statement from the individual's                
  commander. Veterans must present proof they are within 1 year of discharge or

  release from active duty under conditions other than dishonorable. An example          
  of this proof is a copy of the individual's DD Form 214. Current beneficiaries of      
  VA educational assistance and those eligible for educational assistance must

  indicate this eligibility or receipt of benefits and have it confirmed at the VA       
  regional or local office.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                         
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  Obtain VA Form 28-8832, Application for Counseling, from any VA office or              
  regional office. Complete and submit this form to the nearest regional office. A       
  written statement from an individual requesting vocational and educational             
  counseling is also sufficient. With the application form or written statement,         
  submit proof of prior or pending discharge or release from active duty if VA has       
  not already received this evidence or indicate eligibility for, or current receipt of, 
  VA educational assistance.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                         
  The regional office will notify qualified Individual.                                  
Deadlines:                                                                               
  Qualified individuals may not receive counseling benefits earlier than 180 days        
  before projected discharge or release from active duty or more than 1 year after       
  discharge or release from active duty.                                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Appeals:                                                                                 
  Available through special board. Average time to process an appeal is 622 days.        
  In the event of a denial, claimants are advised of appeal rights and procedures at     
  the time of notification.                                                              
Renewals:                                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Reports:                                                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                                  
  Expenditures under this program are monitored. Specific comprehensive                  
  procedures exist for reviewing the quality of services provided and staff time         
  involved in service delivery. Contract expenditures require recordkeeping of the       
  services provided and the funds expended.                                              
Records:                                                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                                  
  36-0137-0-1-702.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  (Contract Services Payments) FY 07 $4,745,274; FY 08 est $6,000,000; and FY

                                                                                         
  09 est $6,000,000.

                                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                         
  Not applicable.

                                                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  Vocational and educational counseling. Included service members and veterans           
                                                                                         


890                                                                                11-08

  who received these services under Public Law 102-16, who are not separately
  identifiable.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  38 CFR 21.4100; "Federal Benefits for Veterans and Dependents," VA Pamphlet
  80-0-01, $5.00, available from Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box 371954,
  Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. The stock number is: 051-000-00233-4. "VA
  Counseling Can Help You," the VA pamphlet portion of VA Form 28-8821,
  Application for Counseling, free, is available from any VA office or regional
  office.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for Veterans Benefits Administration field
  offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Veterans Affairs, Veterans Benefits Administration, Vocational
  Rehabilitation and Employment Service (28), Washington, DC 20420.
  Telephone: (202) 461-9600.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.va.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  64.116, Vocational Rehabilitation for Disabled Veterans; 64.120, Post-Vietnam
  Era Veterans' Educational Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Contract counseling psychologists are selected on the basis of (1) their academic
  credentials and experience in vocational and educational counseling, (2) their
  location in relation to the geographic dispersion of available clients for referral,
  and (3) costs of the services to be provided.
64.126 NATIVE AMERICAN VETERAN DIRECT LOAN
PROGRAM
   (VA Native American Veterans Housing Loan Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  VETERANS BENEFITS ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  VETERANS AFFAIRS
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 102-547 and 109-233, 38 U.S.C. 3761-3764.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide direct loans to certain veterans who are, or whose spouses are, Native
  Americans for the purchase or construction of homes on trust lands.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  VA may make home loans to eligible applicants for any of the following
  purposes: (1) Buy or build a home; (2) simultaneously purchase and improve a
  home; (3) repair, alter or improve a home; (4) purchase a manufactured home to
  be permanently affixed to a lot that is already held in leasehold by the applicant;
  or (5) to refinance an existing VA loan to lower the interest rate. Restrictions on
  direct loans under this program are that: (a) the borrower must have a leasehold
  or fee interest and occupy, as his or her home, the housing unit securing the
  loan; (b) the nature and condition of the unit must be suitable for dwelling; (c)
  the terms of repayment must bear a proper relationship to the applicant's present
  and anticipated income and expenses; (d) the applicant must be a satisfactory
  credit risk; (e) the applicant must be a Native American; and (f) the property on
  which the home is located must be federal trust property.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Veterans who are, or whose spouses are, recognized by a Federally Recognized
  Tribal Government as a Native American and who: (a) Served on active duty on
  or after September 16, 1940, and were discharged or released under conditions
  other than dishonorable. If service was any time during World War II, the
  Korean Conflict, the Vietnam-era, or the Persian Gulf War, then the Native
  American Veteran must have served on active duty for 90 days or more;
  peacetime service only must have served a minimum of 181 days continuous
  active duty. If separated from enlisted service which began after September 7,
  1980, or service as an officer which began after October 16, 1981, a veteran
  must also have served at least 24 months of continuous active duty or the full
  period for which called or ordered to active duty. Veterans of such recent service
  may qualify with less service time if they have a compensable service-connected
  disability or were discharged after at least 181 days, under the authority of 10
  U.S.C 1171 or 1173. (b) Any veteran in the above classes with less service but
  discharged with a service-connected disability. (c) If acknowledged as a Native
  American by a Federally Recognized Tribal Government, unmarried surviving
  spouses of otherwise eligible veterans who died in service or whose deaths were
  attributable to service-connected disabilities and spouses of members of the
  Armed Forces serving on active duty, who are listed as missing in action, or as
  prisoners of war and who have been so listed 90 days or more. (d) Members of
  the Selected Reservists who ae, or whose spouses ae, recognized by a Federally
  Recognized Tribal Government as Native Americans and who are not otherwise
