                                            ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

66.001 AIR POLLUTION CONTROL PROGRAM SUPPORT                                            
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  OFFICE OF AIR AND RADIATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                                 
  AGENCY                                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Clean Air Act of 1990, Section 105, as amended; Public Law 101-549.

                                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                        
  Section 105 program are to assist State, Tribal, Municipal, Intermunicipal, and

                                                                                        
  Interstate agencies in planning, developing, establishing, improving, and

                                                                                        
  maintaining adequate programs for the continuing prevention and control of air

                                                                                        
  pollution and/or in the implementation of national primary and secondary air

                                                                                        
  quality standards. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: A major portion of

                                                                                        
  continuing program funds are being devoted by recipients to attain the National

                                                                                        
  Ambient Air Quality Standards (NAAQS) for 8-hour ozone and fine particulates

                                                                                        
  (PM2.5). This continues to be a multi-year, multi-pollutant effort and reflects

                                                                                        
  the fact that the NAAQS may be periodically revised. Funded activities include

                                                                                        
  the development and submission of re-designation requests including

                                                                                        
  maintenance plans for non-attainment areas meeting the NAAQS, as

                                                                                        
  appropriate. Recipients are also required to review the annual air quality reports

                                                                                        
  for criteria air pollutants and take appropriate actions dealing with any areas that

                                                                                        
  are newly discovered to be violating the NAAQS. For attainment of the 8-hour

                                                                                        
  ozone standard, section 105 grants will continue to support the shift of State,

                                                                                        
  Local and Tribal work to implementation of control plans including updates of

                                                                                        
  control strategies. Plans for attainment include strategies such as regulation of

                                                                                        
  stationary sources, mobile source emissions testing and trip reduction measures,

                                                                                        
  transportation conformity, participation in the NOx/CAIR interstate emissions

                                                                                        
  trading program, and other innovative approaches including early ozone

                                                                                        
  reduction programs and voluntary measures at the local level. States were to

                                                                                        
  have submitted their 1997 PM2.5 state implementation plans (SIPs) by April 5,

                                                                                        
  2008 that included the following elements: attainment demonstration, emission

                                                                                        
  inventory, reasonably available control technology and control measures, a

                                                                                        
  reasonable further progress plan, and contingency measures. Recipients were to

                                                                                        
  have recommended designation status by December 2007 for areas not attaining

                                                                                        
  the new (2006) 24-hour PM2.5 standard. Recipients may also be working with

                                                                                        
  local areas to support innovative, voluntary, early action initiatives such as the

                                                                                        
  8-hour Ozone Flex. States with Early Action Compact Areas (EACs) which had

                                                                                        
  designation deferrals and were determined not to meet attainment by 12/31/2007

                                                                                        
  under the EAC program were to have begun working on non-attainment area

                                                                                        
  SIPs. For the other criteria pollutants (i.e., CO, SO2, PM10, Pb) funds continue

                                                                                        
  to assist States, Tribes and Local agencies in: maintaining compliance with

                                                                                        
  existing standards; or in implementing strategies to reduce these pollutants,

                                                                                        
  review data for their designation to attainment, and assist in developing

                                                                                        
  attainment plans, as necessary. Funds are also being used by State, Local and

                                                                                        
  Tribal governments to bolster their individual roles in regional efforts to reduce

                                                                                        
  visibility-impairing regional haze. Regional haze SIPs were to have been

                                                                                        
  submitted by December 17, 2007. EPA and its partners continue to devote

                                                                                        
  significant grant resources to ambient air monitoring as restructuring of the

                                                                                        
  overall national ambient air monitoring network continues. Reassessment is

                                                                                        
  occurring in light recent revisions in the national ambient air quality standards,

                                                                                        
  monitoring regulations, and the continuing needs of State, local and tribal

                                                                                        
  governments. Monitors are operated for NAAQS pollutants, PM2.5 speciation,

                                                                                        
  and PAMS according to monitoring regulations, approved monitoring plans,

                                                                                        
  and/or grant agreements including quality assurance provisions. Recipients

                                                                                        
  quality-assure, submit and certify air quality data on a regular basis. Recipients

                                                                                        
  were also to have begun or continued a 5-year-cycle network assessment

                                                                                        
  (required by the amended national monitoring rule) and complete it by July 1,

                                                                                        
  2010. Funds for air toxics purposes are provided to: expand existing air toxics

                                                                                        
  monitoring networks operated by State, Tribal and Local agencies in order to

                                                                                        
  better characterizeair

                                                                                        
  toxicsrisksandassess the effectiveness of control strategies; update and review

                                                                                        
  HAP emission inventory and test and review new NEI process and EIS

                                                                                        
  components and provide feedback to EPA; help State and other agencies

                                                                                        
  implement maximum achievable control technology (MACT) standards and

                                                                                        
  other air toxics standards affecting the emissions of specific categories of

                                                                                        
  sources (e.g., Section 112, 111(d) and 129); and help carry out national, regional

                                                                                        
  and community-based initiatives that focus on the identification and reduction

                                                                                        
  of residual, multi-media and cumulative air toxics risks. Additional priorities

                                                                                        
  include implementation of air toxics reduction programs through technology-

                                                                                        
  based and delegated residual risk standards. For FY 08-09, Section 105 funds

                                                                                        
  support agency-specific air pollution prevention and control activities in the

                                                                                        
  form of direct grants to recipients and associated program support to help EPA

                                                                                        
  address three major priorities in air pollution control: (a) attain and maintain

                                                                                        
  national ambient air quality standards for criteria pollutants (ozone, particulate

                                                                                        
  matter, visibility; carbon monoxide, lead, sulfur dioxide and nitrogen dioxide)

                                                                                        
  which endanger human health (particularly sensitive populations) and the

                                                                                        
  environment; (b) eliminate unacceptable risks of cancer and other health

                                                                                        


896                                                                               11-08

problems from air toxics emissions; and (c) reduce the destructive effects of acid
rain deposition on land and water systems formed by ambient nitrates and
sulfates. Funds also address air pollution concerns that are multi-pollutant,
cross-media, interstate, or trans-boundary in nature. Funds for acid deposition
enable States to conduct analyses of the impacts of acid rain on land and water
bodies, assess the effectiveness of control strategies, and monitor the market-
based acid rain trading program emissions from electric utilities. Funding
Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: By nature, much of the work occurring in FY 2008
will continue into FY 2009. However, several new developments will alter the
priorities for the program across the country in FY 2009 - the response to the
new NAAQS in ozone and PM2.5, and the shift of the PM2.5 ambient
monitoring program from Section 103 (100 percent federal funding) to Section
105 authority (recipient cost shared). Recipients will continue to review air
quality reports and take appropriate actions dealing with new violating
attainment areas with any of the NAAQS; submit re-designation requests
including maintenance plans for areas with clean air quality data as appropriate;
work with local area stakeholders to support innovative, voluntary, early action
initiatives such as the 8-hour Ozone Flex; continue to implement 8-hr ozone
SIPs; and submit any outstanding ozone SIP elements (including prior
commitments). However, recipients will also begin preparing recommendations
on designations for the potential revised ozone NAAQS. For PM2.5, in addition
to implementing their PM2.5 SIP for 1997 NAAQS, recipients will begin SIP
planning for 2006 PM2.5 NAAQS and coordinate with EPA regarding
recommendations and comments for 2006 PM2.5 NAAQS designations. Some
states will work withlocal agencies to implement woodstove change-out
programs in areas where change-outs could significantly reduce ambient particle
concentrations. Areas may also explore feasibility of changing out existing
outdoor wood-fired boilers to significantly reduce PM2.5 concentrations. For
both ozone and PM2.5, recipients will continue to implement their NOX
requirements under the Clean Air Interstate Rule (CAIR). As in FY 2008, for
ambient monitoring all state/local primary quality assurance organizations
operate monitors and submit NAAQS pollutant data, PAMS, and QA data to
AQS directly or indirectly through another organization according to schedule in
40 CFR Part 58. Data must also meet quality assurance requirements. These
organizations will also submit their required annual (monitoring) network plans
by July 1 unless another schedule
hasbeenapproved.Theymustlso certify their 2008 NAAQS pollutant data in AQS
and provide supporting documentation by July 1, 2009 (State/local only, unless
tribal work plan requirement). Additionally monitoring organizations will report
real time ozone and PM2.5data to AirNOW for cities required to report the AQI
(State/local only); will continue the 5-year-cycle network assessment required by
July 1, 2010; (State/local only, unless tribal work plan requirement), and include
final NCore siting plan in Annual Monitoring Network Plan due July 1, 2009.
Air quality reporting, including particle pollution forecasting, will be expanded
to additional cities. For regional haze, States and other stakeholders will
continue to work with EPA on issues related to submitted regional haze SIPs and
will continue to implement Best Available Retrofit Technology (BART)
requirements. As in FY 2008, funds for air toxics purposes are provided to:
expand existing air toxics monitoring networks operated by State, Tribal and
Local agencies in order to better characterize air toxics risks and assess the
effectiveness of control strategies. Recipients will collect data for the integrated
2008 hazardous air pollutant (HAP) emissions inventory; implement delegated
or approved section 112, 111(d) and 129 standards, as appropriate, for major
sources and area sources; implement delegated residual risk standards; and work
with communities to develop and implement voluntary air toxics programs that
address outdoor, indoor, and mobile sources with emphasis on areas with
potential environmental justice concerns. For FY 2009, the President has again
proposed that the PM2.5air monitoring program be moved under Sectio 105
authority. PM2.5 Fine Particulate Monitoring. State and local air pollution
control agencies are working with EPA to operate a national fine particulate
(PM2.5) monitoring network to accurately assess and characterize the nature and
extent of fine particulates (PM2.5) across the country. This assessment is
necessary to determine the air quality status of an area in relation to the national
PM2.5 ambient air quality standard. At least three years of quality-assured data
are required in order to determine an area's attainment status. The air quality
status of an area will determine the nature and complexity of its attainment plan,
its associated control strategies, and its implementation schedule. The immediate
goals of this multi-year program are: appropriate spatial characterization of
PM2.5 NAAQS; public reporting of PM2.5 in the Air Quality Index;
characterization of PM2.5 chemical speciation data for long term trends;
development and accountability of emission control programs and tracking of
regional haze, and limited support of health studies; implementation of NCore
CO, SO2, NO2/NOy trace-level monitoring to support characterization of PM
precursors; assessment of PM2.5 data quality; and procurement and testing of
PM2.5 filters. Grant funds are used to provide support to eligible State and local
air agencies for continued operation of high value federal reference method
(FRM) and speciation monitoring sites; additional investments in PM2.5
