  continuous monitoring and associated data management systems for timely             
  reporting of high quality data; and continued investments in precursor gas          
  analyzers, data analyses, and quality assurance activities that will support better 
  understanding of particle formation.                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grant funds may be used for costs specifically incurred in the conduct of a         
  State/Local/Tribal Air Pollution Control Program in accordance with the             
  purposes enumerated in the approved application. These include personnel costs,     
  supplies, equipment, training of personnel, travel, and other necessary             
  expenditures during the approved project period. Funds may not be used for          
  construction of facilities, nor for expenses incurred other than during each        
  approved award period. Grant funds may not be used to subsidize the costs of        
  Title V operating permit programs. Assistance agreement awards under this           
  program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information        
  regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following           
  website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Municipal, Intermunicipal, State, Federally Recognized Indian Tribe, or             
  Interstate or Intertribal with legal responsibility for appropriate air pollution   
  planning, development, establishment, implementation, and maintenance of            
  Clean Air Act air pollution control activities, including management of grant       
  support for those activities, provided such organization furnishes funds for the    
  current year that are equal to or in excess of its recurrent expenditures for the   
  previous year for its approved section 105 air pollution program. The               
  determination of expenditures is subject to decisions based on provisions of the    
  Clean Air Act and applicable grant regulations. This program is available to        
  each State, territory and possession of the U.S., including the District of         
  Columbia. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA             
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of   
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement               
  Competition Policy.                                                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Municipalities (local governments), Intermunicipalities, States, Federally          
  Recognized Indian Tribes, and Interstate and Intertribal agencies.                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The application must supply evidence of legal authority for air pollution control;  
  evidence of the availability of nonfederal matching funds; assurance that federal   
  funds do not supplant available recipient funds, evidence that the Governor or      
  his designated State agency has been given the opportunity to comment on the        
  relationship of the program to be funded to the State plan; and a workable          
  program officially adopted for the agency. Principles for determining allowable     
  costs are set forth in applicable Federal management circulars described in the     
  general grant regulations and procedures 40 CFR Part 31 of the Federal              
  Regulations. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-        
  87 for State and local governments.                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Discussion with the applicable EPA Regional Office is advised for air program       
  grant applications. The standard application forms as furnished by the              
  Environmental Protection Agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102              
  must be used for this program. Applications are subject to the State's review.      
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review. Regarding pre-application/pre-           
  proposal assistance with respect to competitive funding opportunities under this    
  program description, EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-              
  application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in
  the competitive announcement. For additional information, contact the               
  individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog.   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Requests for application forms and completed applications must be submitted to      
  the appropriate EPA Regional Grants Administration Branch. Application must         
  meet the requirements of the grant regulations and will be reviewed to determine    
  merit and relevancy of the proposed project. This program is excluded from          
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110. Applicants may be able to use                
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities       
  under this CFDA.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Procedures for awards are outlined in General Grant Regulations 40 CFR Part         
  31. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications,              
  proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and         
  criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted     
  in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance                
  agreements.                                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   


                                                                                 11-08
  Approximately 90 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Clean Air Act does not prescribe a specific statutory funding formula but
  does direct that the factors of population, the extent and severity of the air
  pollution problem, and financial need, be considered in the allocation of
  available resources by the Agency. The current allocation approach is currently
  under review for updating by the Agency. EPA is undertaking the review in
  consultation with eligible recipients. State, Interstate, and Local programs may
  receive up to 60 percent Federal funding for the total approved program costs.
  The amount of Federal share of grant costs should be determined by reference to
  the criteria set forth in Section 105 of the Clean Air Act and in 40 CFR 35.145,
  40 CFR 35.146, and 40 CFR 147. Not more than 10 percent of the funds
  available shall be granted for air pollution control programs in any one State.
  Not less than one-half of one percent of the funds are to be made available as a
  minimum to a State (overall) for application. However, award of these levels of
  funds will be made only if the agencies within the State meet the requirements of
  the Act and grant regulations. For Indian Tribes establishing eligibility pursuant
  to Section 35.573, the Regional Administrator may provide financial assistance
  in an amount up to 95 percent of the approved costs of planning, developing,
  establishing, or improving an air pollution control program, and up to 95 percent
  of the approved costs of maintaining that program. After 2 years from the date
  of each Tribe's initial grant award, the Regional Administrator will reduce the
  maximum federal share to 90 percent, as long as the Regional Administrator
  determines that the Tribes meet certain economic indicators that would provide
  an objective assessment of the tribe's ability to increase its share.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The terms of the grant shall be determined at time of award.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Grant and administrative reporting requirements are also identified in
  the Grant Regulations Part 30 and Part 32. Programmatic reporting
  requirements are outlined in Part 31 and in the applicable national program
  manager annual guidance. Requirements for the evaluation of recipient
  performance are discussed in 40 CFR 35.115.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained for 3 years from the date of submission of the annual financial status
  report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related
  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $154,747,260; FY 08 $165,700,000; FY 09 $175,730,000 (estimated
  and includes $25.5M for PM2.5 air monitoring. Note: The President's Budget
  request proposes to fund the PM 2.5 Air Monitoring grant program under
  Section 105, but Congress has proposed to continue funding the program under
  Section 103.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2008 - From approximately $64,000 to $6,850,000 per recipient; average
  approximately $1,500,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2008, approximately 110 applications were received from State, Local and
  Tribal agencies to help support their continuing air quality programs were
  funded. This same level is expected to be received and funded in FY 2009.
  These programs plan and implement measures to improve, protect, monitor and
                                                                                     897
