  report air quality in their communities. The plans integrate state and local       
  measures with federal measures - including advances in environmental               
  technologies (e.g., cleaner fuels, vehicle and industrial technology), in          
  addressing and reducing air pollution and in meeting National Ambient Air          
  Quality Standards (NAAQS). The NAAQS are regularly reassessed to assure            
  that public health and welfare is being adequately protected. The most recent      
  designations for ozone occurred in 2004 and 89 of the original 126 ozone areas

  are now meeting that NAAQS based on data collected during 2004-2006.               
  Thirteen of the 14 Early Action Compact areas will have been designated

  attainment by April 15, 2008. For PM, the Agency designated 86 areas, with a       
  total population of 35.8 million people, as nonattainment for PM10 in 1992 and

  46 of those areas remain in nonattainment. In 4/05, EPA designated 39 areas as     
  nonattainment for the PM2.5 based on air quality data collected during 2001-       
  2003. Some PM2.5 design values in designated nonattainment areas are               
  improving slightly, especially in the western U.S violated the annual and not the  
  24-hour NAAQS. As the new standards for ozone and PM2.5 take affect,               
  updates on in designations and progress in air quality status will be provided.    
  States have achieved widespread attainment of standards for several of the         
  criteria pollutants: CO, SO2, NO2 and Lead. Specifically: for carbon monoxide      
  EPA originally designated 78 areas, affecting 69.8 million people, as              
  nonattainment for CO in 1992 with 3 nonattainment areas, affecting 719             
  thousand people remaining. For sulfur dioxide (SO2), EPA designated 54 areas,      
  with a total population of 9.8 million people, as nonattainment for SO2 in 1992    
  with 10 nonattainment areas remaining affecting a total population of 1.1          
  million. All 10 areas have monitoring data measuring attainment of the SO2         
  NAAQS. For nitrogen Dioxide (NO2), there are no designated NO2                     
  nonattainment areas and all areas continue to meet the NAAQS. For lead (Pb),       
  EPA designated 13 areas, with a total population of 1.8 million people as          
  nonattainment for Pb in 1992 and 2 nonattainment areas remain. There are no        
  new areas violating the current lead NAAQS. The lead NAAQS is currently            
  being examined for revision.                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Air Pollution Control Program Grants, EPA, 40 CFR Part 35 (revised January 9,      
  2001); Interim Rule published January 4, 1995 (FR V.60 No.2, pp.366-372);          
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures, EPA, 40 CFR Part 31.                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Contact appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.      
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  For program information: William Houck, National Air Grant Coordinator,            
  State/local (202) 564-1234, Fax: (202) 564-1352, houck.william@epa.gov; and        
  Darryl Harmon, Tribal Air Coordinator (202) 564-7416, Fax: (202) 564-1352,         
  harmon.darryl@epa.gov; Office of Air and Radiation, Environmental Protection       
  Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20460. Mail Code              
  6102A.                                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/air/.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  66.600, Environmental Protection Consolidated Grants for the Insular Areas -       
  Program Support.                                                                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Continuing program grants are provided to State, Local and Tribal air pollution    
  control agencies for the purpose of operating programs that plan and implement     
  activities to achieve ambient air quality standards. These programs cover:         
  planning for attainment of updated national air quality standards including fine   
  particulates and ozone; state implementation plan development; ambient             
  monitoring; emission inventories; air and emissions modeling; source               
  permitting; certain compliance and enforcement activities; public outreach and     
  education activities; development and implementation of air quality regulations;   
  implementation of market-based, early action (ozone) compacts and other            
  innovative air pollution reduction strategies; technical training; risk and data   
  analyses; information management; and program evaluation, progress reporting       
  and other program operation and maintenance activities.                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The criteria for awarding air pollution control program assistance grants are      
  provided in the 1990 Clean Air Act, Section 105, and set forth in State and local  
  assistance grant regulations (40 CFR 35). Some of the criteria considered for      
  award include the following: 1) No grant may be awarded unless the program         
  contained in the grant application meets the requirements of Section 35.140        
  (program purposes and associated regulations) and has been approved by the         
  Regional Administrator. Sections 35.104 and 35.107 describe what an agency         
  needs to do to prepare an adequate application. This usually includes the use of   
  annual program and grant guidance from EPA and is generally done in                
  consultation with the EPA Regional Office. 2) No grant may be awarded until        
  the Regional Administrator has consulted with the official designated by the       
  Governor(s) of the State(s) affected by such award pursuant to Section 105(b) of   
  the Clean Air Act. Such consultation should consider the role of the applicant in  
  the enforcement of any applicable implementation plan and confirm that the         
  applicant's program will be generally compatible with the objectives of the        
  applicable implementation plan. 3) The requirements of this Section shall not      
  apply to Indian Tribes that have established eligibility pursuant to Section       


898                                                                            11-08

  35.573 and intertribal agencies made up of such Tribes. 4) No grant may be
  awarded unless the Regional Administrator has determined that the agency has
  adequate air pollution control authority and necessary regulations to implement
  such authority. The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards
  under this CFDA description will be described in the competitive
  announcement.
66.032 STATE INDOOR RADON GRANTS
   (SIRG)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF AIR AND RADIATION, INDOOR ENVIRONMENTS DIVISION,
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indoor Radon Abatement Act, Section 306, 15 U.S.C. 2661; Toxic Substances
  Control Act, Title I, Section 10(a).
OBJECTIVES:
  The Indoor Radon Abatement Act (IRAA), Section 306, and the Toxic
  Substances Control Act (TSCA), Section 10(a), authorizes EPA to assist States
  and Federally Recognized Indian Tribes in the development and implementation
  of programs for the assessment and mitigation of radon related health risks.
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: In FY 2008 this program aims to: (1)
  maintain, enhance and improve the effectiveness of existing state and federally
  recognized indian tribal radon programs; (2) increase the number of homes and
  schools tested and mitigated; (3) increase the number of builders voluntarily
  including radon-reducing features in new homes; (4) increase the number of
  state and local jurisdictions adopting radon-reducing features in residential
  building codes; (5) focus activities under (2), (3) and (4) in high radon potential
  areas; (6) encourage radon disclosure, testing and mitigation in residential
  property transfers; and (7) encourage grant recipients to be more strategic in
  their risk reduction efforts, e.g., by improving their results reporting and sharing
  and replicating best practices.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The following activities are eligible for funding under SIRG: radon surveys,
  public information and educational materials, radon control programs, purchase
  of radon measurement equipment or devices, purchase and maintenance of
  analytic equipment, training, program overhead and administration, data storage
  and management, mitigation demonstrations, and toll-free hotlines. Funding for
  these eligible activities may be used to develop State radon response programs.
  States may, at the Governor's direction, provide assistance to local governments
  for public information and educational materials, radon control programs and
  training. RESTRICTIONS: The statute places the following restrictions on the
  use of Federal funds: 1) SIRG recipients must perform satisfactorily in the
  preceding budget period to be eligible to receive additional funding; 2) State
  expenditures for measurement equipment/devices and mitigation demonstrations
  cannot exceed 50 percent of the grant amount in a budget period; 3) State
  expenditures for general overhead and program administration cannot exceed 25
  percent in a budget period; and 4) SIRG applicants may use grant funds for
  financial assistance to persons only to the extent that such assistance is related to
  demonstration projects or the purchase and analysis of radon measurement
  devices.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible entities include States (including District of Columbia (DC)), Puerto
  Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Canal Zone, American Samoa, the Northern
  Mariana Islands, Federally recognized Indian Tribes and Tribal consortia, or any
  other U.S. Territory or possession. For certain competitive funding opportunities
  under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a
  number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance
  Agreement Competition Policy. The Agency may also limit eligibility to
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants from a particular regional or
  geographical area (e.g. tribes). EPA may limit competition to a sovereign nation
  when TSCA 10(a) is the grant authority.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State agencies: local, municipal, district, or area wide governments and
  organizations; U.S. territories or possessions, Federally Recognized Indian
  Tribes, colleges, universities, multi-state agencies, nonprofit organizations, low-
  income individuals, homeowners, and the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  An applicant's application must: (1) describe the seriousness and extent of radon
  exposure; (2) identify the lead State agency with primary responsibility for the
  radon program that will receive the grant, with a description of the lead agency's
  role and responsibilities, and those of any other State agencies, and any
  municipal, district or area wide organizations involved in the radon program; (3)
  submit a work plan describing the activities and programs to be funded; (4)
  provide a budget specifying the Federal and applicant share of the funding for
  each work plan element. First time applicants must have a 3-year work plan
  outlining long range program goals and objectives, the tasks necessary to
