  achieve them, the resource requirements including anticipated SIRG applicant        
  funding levels and the desired Federal funding level. Costs are determined in       
  accordance with OMB Circular A-87, "Cost Principles for State, Local and            
  Tribal Governments."                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Application assistance is available through Regional radon coordinators and         
  their Regional grants specialist counterparts. Regarding pre-application/pre-       
  proposal assistance with respect to competitive funding opportunities under this    
  program description (TSCA 10(a) only), EPA will generally specify the nature of     
  the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be available to      
  applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional information, contact     
  the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the        
  Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                    
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult         
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying   
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. Visit             
  www.epa.gov/iaq/whereyoulive.html for state specific information on the state       
  radon programs and how to contact them.                                             
Application Procedure:                                                                
  EPA requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for       
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency and       
  the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, or        
  through the Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 3903F,           
  Washington, DC 20460. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to        
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Each application shall be subjected to administrative evaluation to determine       
  adequacy of application in relation to grant regulations and to technical and       
  program evaluation to determine the merit and relevancy of the project or           
  program. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications,         
  proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and         
  criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted     
  in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance                
  agreements.                                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Completed deadlines are set by the appropriate Regional Office. Contact the         
  Regional Office for application deadlines. Visit                                    
  www.epa.gov/iaq/whereyoulive.html for details.                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  About 90 days.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in               
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal       
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also        
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."      
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients     
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                 
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable for 40 CFR or TSCA 10(a).                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula. EPA may provide States with up to 60         
  percent of allowable costs of approved SIRG Program activities. TSCA Section        
  306 requires a progressive match for States and Tribes in the first, second and     
  third year of participation in the SIRG program. (25 percent, 40 percent, and 50    
  percent respectively). However, in FY 2005 Congress changed the recipient           
  match requirement to be a minimum of 40 percent for participants with three or      
  more years in the program. Under TSCA 10(a) authority, Federally Recognized         
  Indian Tribes are not required to provide a cost share match, but competition is    
  required.                                                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Under TSCA Section 306, EPA normally funds grants and cooperative                   
  agreements for a period of 12-36 months. EPA negotiates project periods             
  appropriate to the specific project, and encourages 3 year grant periods.           
  However, EPA project periods are limited to a maxium of 5 years. Grants and         
  cooperative agreements are fully funded or incrementally (partially) funded.        
  Successful applicants under a competitive funding announcement are notified         
  via U.S. mail or electronic mail.                                                   
Reports:                                                                              
  Required reports from grant recipients include: performance reports, no more        
  often than quarterly; Financial Status Reports, (Standard Form 269); Federal        
  Cash Transactions Reports (for grants paid by letter of credit); and if applicable, 
  Request for Advance or Reimbursement (Standard Form 270). To monitor the            
  performance of each grant recipient, the EPA Project Officer and other Agency       
  personnel may conduct mid-year (or more frequent) site visits to inspect            
  program activities first hand.                                                      
Audits:                                                                               
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the      
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,      
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.        


                                                                                 11-08
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting
  entries in accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipient grants and cooperative
  agreement records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the
  date of submission of the final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those
  raised as a result of an audit remain following the 3-year period, recipients must
  retain records until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $7,439,000; FY 08 $7,948,000; and FY 09 est $7,948,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Federal funding can range from $15,000 to a maximum of about $700,000 per
  State applicant and $10,000 to $80,000 per Tribal applicant. The average
  Federal funding per applicant is $150,000 for States and $30,000 per Tribe.
  Minimum awards are $10,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY07, SIRG awarded 44 assistance agreements (39 states, 5 tribes) totaling
  $7,432,000. An estimated 213,000 additional homes included radon-reducing
  features in calendar 2006 (latest data; 139,000 new homes and 74,500 existing
  homes). Much of this progress resulted from the work of coalitions in
  partnership with local governments, national and local nonprofit organizations,
  and other leaders. The SIRG program continues to stress the importance of
  achieving and measuring results in the number of homes, schools, and other
  buildings tested and mitigated for radon; in the number of homes built with
  radon-reducing features through real estate disclosure and property transfers.
  Recipients are now required to include the results measures template in their
  work plans. Projects that yield results are preferred over those with inconclusive
  results.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  EPA regulations that govern State activities under the SIRG Program are
  contained in the following Parts of 40 CFR: (1) Part 4, "Implementation of the
  Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of
  1980"; (2) Part 7, "Nondiscrimination in Programs Receiving Federal Assistance
  from the Environmental Protection Agency"; (3) Part 29, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Environmental Protection Agency Programs and Activities"; (4) Part
  31, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements to State and Local Governments"; (5) Part 32, "Debarment and
  Suspension under EPA Assistance Programs", and (6) Part 35; "State and Local
  Assistance". Applicable OMB Circulars include (1) Circular A- 87, "Cost
  Principles for State and Local Governments," and (2) Circular A-102, "Uniform
  Requirements for Assistance to State and Local Governments". Other materials
  applicable to SIRG include: (1) Administrative Guidance for the State Indoor
  Radon Grants Program under Section 306, Indoor Radon Abatement Act
  (January 2005); (2) Indoor Radon and Radon Decay Product Measurement
  Device Protocols (EPA 402-R-92-004); 3) Protocols for Radon and Radon
  Decay Products Measurements in Homes EPA 420-R-93-003; and (4) Guidance
  for the Indian Radon Pilot Projects (March 1991). Visit
  http://www.epa.gov/radon/sirgprogram.html for more information.
Regional or Local Office:
  For questions of a programmatic/technical nature, contact the appropriate
  Regional Radon Office representative listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. The
  individual Regional radon SIRG project officers can be found at
  http://www.epa.gov/radon/sirgprogram.html.
Headquarters Office:
  For program information, contact: Philip Jalbert, Office of Radiation and Indoor
  Air, Environmental Protection Agency, 1310 L Street, NW., Mail Code 6609J,
  Washington, DC 20005. Phone: (202) 343-9431; fax (202) 343-2393; e-mail:
  jalbert.philip@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.epa.gov/radon/sirgprogram.html
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The State and Tribal Indoor Radon Grant (SIRG) program has awarded grants to
  States and Tribes to: (1) establish effective radon programs among states,
  territories, and federally recognized Indian tribes; (2) increase the number of
  homes, schools, and other buildings tested and mitigated from radon; (3)
  implement radon resistant construction standards in high risk areas; (4)
  encourage radon testing and disclosure in connection with real estate transfers;
  and (5) promote environmental justice through programs and outreach efforts
                                                                                  899
