  directed at low-income and/or culturally-diverse populations. The Agency              
  encourages recipients to partner with other public health and environmental           
  organizations to increase program effectiveness.                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  The EPA will base its review of SIRG applications on whether they reflect the         
  program's goals and promote integrity in States' use of grant funds. Pursuant to      
  TSCA Section 306(e), if State applications exceed the funds appropriated for          
  award in a fiscal year, EPA will prioritize State activities based on the following   
  criteria: (1) the seriousness and extent of the radon contamination problem to be     
  addressed; (2) the potential for the activity or project to bring about reduction in  
  radon levels; (3) the potential for the development of innovative radon               
  assessment techniques, mitigation measures as approved by the Administrator,          
  or program management approaches which may be of use to other States; (4) the         
  potential for the activity to implement EPA's model radon-resistant building          
  standards; (5) the potential for the development of radon programs in high-risk       
  areas; and (6) the potential for the activity to improve the effectiveness and        
  viability of the State program. The evaluation and selection criteria for             
  competitive awards under this CFDA description will be described in the               
  competitive announcement. Under the TSCA 10(a) authority, Tribes are                  
  authorized to receive grants for demonstration projects. However, under this          
  authority, SIRG funding is awarded competitively. EPA may establish                   
  additional criteria related to demonstration activities or other aspects of the       
  SIRG program. All other requirements of the SIRG program are applicable to            
  the States and Tribes unless otherwise stated in TSCA 306 or TSCA 10(a).              
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
66.033 OZONE TRANSPORT COMMISSION                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  OFFICE OF AIR AND RADIATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                                 
  AGENCY                                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Clean Air Act of 1990, Sections 106 and 111, as amended; Public Law 101-549,          
  42 U.S.C. 1406.                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To develop or recommend air quality implementation plans for air quality              
  control regions designated pursuant to Section 106 (interstate pollution) or          
  Section 111 (interstate ozone pollution) of the Clean Air Act of 1990. Funding        
  Priority-Fiscal Year 2008: The Ozone Transport Commission (OTC) will                  
  continue to provide a forum for the states within the Ozone Transport Region          
  (New England and Middle Atlantic states) to develop and adopt air quality             
  implementation plans for reducing ozone pollution pursuant to Section 106 of          
  Section 111 of the Clean Air Act of 1990.                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Assistance funds may be used for costs specifically incurred in the conduct of        
  interstate pollution projects in accordance with the purposes enumerated in the       
  approved application. Assistance agreement awards under this program may              
  involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding            
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:              
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  An agency or commission designated by the Governors of the affected States,           
  which is capable of recommending to those Governors' plans for implementation         
  of national primary and secondary ambient air quality standards and which             
  includes representation form the States and the appropriate political subdivisions    
  within the affected air quality control region. For certain competitive funding       
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to        
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the              
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Municipalities, intermunicipalities, States, interstate agencies or commissions,      
  and Federally recognized Indian tribes.                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  The application must supply evidence of legal authority for air pollution control;    
  evidence of the availability of nonfederal matching funds, evidence that the          
  Governor or his designated State agency has been given the opportunity to             
  comment on the relationship of the program to be funded to the State plan and a       
  workable program officially adopted for the agency. Principles for determining        
  allowable costs are set forth in applicable Federal management circulars              
  described in the general grant regulations and procedures 40 CFR Part 30 of the       
  Federal Regulations. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular         
  No. A-87 for State and Local governments.                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  Discussions of informal meetings with the Headquarters Program Office                 
  concerning program preparation are advisable. The standard application forms          
  as furnished by the Federal Agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102             
  must be used for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.       
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should            
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or    


900                                                                               11-08

  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Application Procedure:
  Requests for application forms and completed applications should be submitted
  to the appropriate EPA Office (See Appendix IV of the Catalog). Applicants
  may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  Each application shall be subjected to administrative coordination to determine
  adequacy in relation to grant regulations, and to technical and program
  evaluation to determine merit and relevancy of the project. For competitive
  awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals, and/or
  submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the
  competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance with
  EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Applications are due 60 days prior to the beginning of the budget period.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Applicant must reapply.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Upon initial designation by the Governors of the affected States, pursuant to
  Sections 106 or 111 of the Clean Air Act of 1990, the Administrator is
  authorized to pay for up to 2 years, and up to 100 percent of the air quality
  planning program costs of an designated commission or interstate agency. After
  the initial 2-year period, the Administrator is authorized to make grants to such
  agency or such commission in amounts up to 3/5 of its air quality management
  plan costs. This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The terms of the grant shall be determined at the time of grant award.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim and final progress reports, and financial and equipment reports.
  Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part 30 and
  Part 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting
  entries in accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipient grants and cooperative
  agreements records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the
  date of submission of the final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those
  raised as a result of an audit remain following the 3-year period, recipients must
  retain records until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0200-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $639,000; FY 08 $635,000; and FY 09 est $635,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  There is only one cooperative agreement awarded under this program. The
  cooperative agreement will range from $600,00 to $650,000/fiscal year with an
  average award of $635,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Ozone Transport Commission provides policy guidance to its member states
