  and the District of Columbia on actions needed to reduce ozone pollution within    
  the ozone transport region. They provide air pollution assessment, technical       
  support and forums through which their member states can harmonize their           
  pollution reduction strategies. This is accomplished through the development of    
  multi-state agreements such as the NOx emissions reductions, the Clean Energy      
  Initiative, education and outreach efforts and similar activities. OTC also        
  participates in national forums such as the Clean Air Act advisory Committee       
  and the Air Quality Management workgroup representing its member states.           
  This CFDA issues one grant annually in response to the Clean Air Act               
  Amendments to establish an Ozone Transport Commission which perform the            
  activities stated herein annually. In FY 2007, one grant was awarded for           
  $639,000 and one grant in FY 2008 was awarded for $635,000.                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  EPA Uniform Administration Requirements for Grants and Cooperative                 
  Agreements to State and Local Governments (40 CFR Part 31).                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA        
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters         
  program contacts listed below.                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Air and Radiation, Environmental Protection Agency, 1200                 
  Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code 6102A, Washington, DC 20460.                  
  Program Contact: Pat Childers at childers.pat@epa.gov, Telephone: (202) 564-       
  1082, Fax: (202) 564-1352.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.otcair.org/.                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Operation of the Ozone Transport Commission for the past 15 years.                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA       
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                     
                                                                                     
66.034 SURVEYS, STUDIES, RESEARCH,                                                   
INVESTIGATIONS, DEMONSTRATIONS, AND SPECIAL                                          
                                                                                     
PURPOSE ACTIVITIES RELATING TO THE CLEAN AIR                                         
ACT                                                                                  
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF AIR AND RADIATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                              
  AGENCY                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Clean Air Act of 1963, Section 103, as amended, Public Law 95-95, 42 U.S.C.        
  7401 et seq.; National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Section                   
  102(2)(F),Public Law 91-190, 42 U.S.C. 4332.                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To support Surveys, Studies, Research, Investigations, Demonstrations and          
  Special Purpose assistance relating to the causes, effects (including health and   
  welfare effects), extent, prevention, and control of air pollution to include such 
  topics as air quality, acid deposition, climate change, global programs, indoor    
  environments, radiation, mobile source technology and community-driven             
  approaches to transportation and emissions reduction. Funding Priority - Fiscal    
  Year 2008: (1) Indoor Environments. This activity will support surveys, studies,   
  research, and/or investigations or demonstrations, performed by concerned,         
  national, non-profit organizations that lead to effective outreach strategies to   
  educate key audiences about indoor air pollutants and their associated health      
  risks, and convince them to adopt effective mitigation and control strategies.     
  Currently, the Program focuses on several critical aspects of indoor air quality   
  that pose significant risks to public health, and in particular, to children and to
  other disproportionately impacted segments of society. These include: reducing     
  the exposure of children and others with asthma to indoor triggers that worsen     
  their condition; promoting the adoption of operation and maintenance practices     
  in schools throughout the nation to reduce the harmful effects of poor indoor air  
  quality on the health of students and staff; promoting voluntary radon testing by  
  homeowners to identify elevated levels and fix them when they are found, as        
  well as working with homebuilders to incorporate radon resistant construction      
  features into new homes; and encouraging adult smokers to protect their children   
  from the adverse health effects of environmental exposure to secondhand smoke      
  by making a conscious decision to smoke outside and keep their homes and cars      
  smokefree. (2)Radiation. This activity currently manages a national                
  environmental radiation monitoring program, is prepared for and responds to        
  incidents involving nuclear or radiological material, oversees the safe disposal of
  radioactive waste, maintains two laboratories that allow for radiological          
  sampling and analyses, and provides standards for protecting human health and      
  the environment from radioactive material. Activities could include performance    
  testing and evaluation, analytical procedures, radiation laboratory equipment.     
  This demonstration pilot activity supports and enhances state radiological         
  laboratory capability and capacity to reduce the gap in capability to analyze      
                                                                                     
                                                                                11-08
  environmental samples following a significant national radiological incident.
  Key activities include audits and proficiency testing, provision of radiological
  instrumentation, supplies, training, and limited facilities upgrades. (3)
  Community-Scale Air Toxics Ambient Monitoring (CSATAM). The CSATAM
  Grant Program results in discreet two-year projects designed to assist state, local
  and tribal communities in identifying and profiling air toxics sources,
  characterizing the degree and extent of local air toxics problems, and tracking
  progress of air toxics reduction activities in specific local areas without reliance
  on often uncertain estimates of emissions and air dispersion models. Further,
  these grants typically allow the recipient state, local, and tribal air pollution
  control agencies to establish or enhance hazardous air pollutant monitoring
  networks, thus providing long term capability to investigate and assess specific
  local air quality scenarios of concern. Note that from year to year, this program
  may establish categories of projects and funding targets within those categories.
  (4) Mobile Sources Technologies. Grants will encompass studies and
  investigations utilizing state-of-the-art experimental techniques in advanced
  engine development technology, including hydraulic hybrid drivetrains, to
  optimize fuel economy, reduce exhaust emissions (including PM and NOx), and
  improve performance. Additional grants will support studiesidentifying
  barriers to technological innovation, analyzing innovative strategies for
  overcoming these barriers, and encouraging the development and adoption of
  new vehicle and fuel technologies for the control of emissions. (5) Heavy Duty
  Truck Fuel Consumption and Emissions Reductions. This program will study
  and analyze fuel consumption and emissions reductions associated with the use
  of innovative technologies for heavy duty diesel trucks. Studies and evaluations
  will involve truck fleets that operate under varying conditions, so as to evaluate
  the effectiveness of the various technologies. (6) National Internet-based On-
  Board Diagnostic (OBD) Information Exchange. This program will support
  activities that maintain, update, and improve the Internet-based information
  clearinghouse to facilitate the accurate and timely exchange of technical
  information related to on-board diagnostic (OBD) between state
  inspection/maintenance programs, the automotive industry, and the general
  public. (7) Climate Change. This is a voluntary program that supports activities
  relating to improving economic, technical and programmatic understanding of
  climate change. The Climate Change Division supports projects relating to
  technical, outreach, and education about climate change impacts, mitigation and
  adaptation options so that the private and public sectors may more effectively
  and comprehensively address their climate goals. The Climate Change Division
  supports projects that break down market barriers that limit investment in
  technologies that reduce methane and non-CO2 greenhouse gases; projects that
  address the technical issues surrounding sequestration and carbon storage;
  projects that address collection and analyses of economic data relating to climate
  change; and programs such as Methane to Markets that support climate
  technology transfer in developing and transition countries. (8) Climate
  Protection Partnerships. This is a voluntary government/industry partnership
  program designed to capitalize on the opportunities that consumers, businesses,
  and organizations have for making sound investments in efficient equipment,
  policies, and practices. During FY 2008, the Global Climate Change program
  managed a number of efforts to remove barriers in the marketplace and to deploy
  technology faster in the residential, commercial, and industrial sectors of the
  economy. Our programs work by overcoming widely acknowledged barriers to
  energy efficiency: lack of clear, reliable information on technology
  opportunities; lack of awareness of energy efficient products and services; lack
  of financing options to turn lifecycle energy savings into initial cost savings for
  consumers; low incentives to manufacturers for efficiency research and
  development. In addition, our Global Climate Change programs provided
  technical assistance, training, information exchange and other forms of
  cooperation to enhance the capabilities of governments and other stakeholders to
  protect human health and the environment regionally and globally.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable
  direct costs incident to approved Surveys, Studies, Research, Investigations,
  Demonstrations and Special Purpose plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance
  with established EPA policies and regulations. Assistance agreement awards
  under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further
  information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the
  following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States, local
  governments, territories, Indian Tribes, and possessions of the U.S., including
  the District of Columbia, international organizations, public and private
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public or private
  nonprofit institutions, which submit applications proposing projects with
  significant technical merit and relevance to EPA's Office of Air and Radiation's
  mission. Eligibility for projects awarded or competed exclusively with State and
  Tribal Assistance Grant (STAG) funds is limited to air pollution control
  agencies, as defined in section 302(b) of the Clean Air Act that are also eligible
  to receive grants under section 105 of the Clean Air Act, and/or federally
                                                                                    901
