  recognized tribes. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this        
  CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or       
  subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement    
  Competition Policy.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, Indian Tribes,      
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, and other public and private   
  nonprofit institutions.                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for                 
  educational institutions, and OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions.   
  Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background,       
  academic training, experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out   
  projects. EPA may ask applicants or principle investigators to provide             
  curriculum vitae and relevant publications.                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive      
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify   
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be    
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional            
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.       
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  EPA requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for      
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,         
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 3903R, Washington,          
  DC 20460 or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix         
  IV of the Catalog. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to          
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None, unless applications are submitted in response to calls for proposals or      
  requests for applications which include deadlines.                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 180 days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and cooperative agreements         
  for Surveys, Studies, Research, and Investigations. Approval of subsequent         
  funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress, continued        
  relevance of the project to EPA's priorities, availability of funds, and Agency    
  policy on the competitive grant process.                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  EPA normally funds grants and cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis.          
  However, EPA can negotiate the project period with each applicant based on         
  project requirements. EPA limits project periods to 5 years. Grants are generally  
  fully funded or on an incremental funding basis. Successful applicants will be     
  notified either via U.S. mail or electronically. Such notification is contingent   
  upon information contained in the resulting solicitation.                          
Reports:                                                                             
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in       
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,      
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention       
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part  
  30 and Part 31.                                                                    
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each

  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,

                                                                                     
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit

  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in      


902                                                                            11-08

  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting
  entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipients grants and cooperative
  agreements records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the
  date of submission of final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those raised
  as a result of audits remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain
  records until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-1810-0-1-304. Resulting awards are funded using the following accounts:
  Environmental Program & Management (EPM), Science & Technology (S&T),
  and State & Tribal Air Grants (STAG).
Obligations:
  FY 07 $45,783,177; FY 08 $18,001,650; and FY 09 est $21,305,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  EPA generally award grants ranging in value from $5,000 to $750,000 per fiscal
  year. The average value of each grant is $150,000 per fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Data Not Available. This CFDA is utilized by EPA Headquarters and the
  regions. Specific program accomplishments are unavailable. Prospective
  applicants may contact the individual listed in "Headquarters Office," below for
  more information. Conference is devoted to the sharing of information about
  current and ongoing research into alternatives to methyl bromide for the
  agricultural sector, for both pre-plant and post-harvest uses. Conference
  proceedings are available at http://www.mbao.org. The 2004 conference took
  place in Orlando, Florida, and had about 400 attendees. MBAO is jointly
  sponsored in cooperation with EPA, the Department of Agriculture, and the
  Crop Protection Coalition.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Surveys, Studies, Research, and Investigations grants and cooperative
  agreements are subject to EPA's General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and
  40 CFR Part 31).
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters
  program contacts listed below.
Headquarters Office:
  For information on grant applications and procedures, contact: Environmental
  Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division,
  1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code 3903R, Washington, DC 20460.
  For program information contact: Office of Air and Radiation, 1200
  Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460, Mail Code: 6102A.
  Courtney Hyde, Telephone: (202) 564-1227, hyde.courtney@epa.gov, Fax:
  (202) 564-1327.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/air/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of funded projects are: (1) Conducting training courses for
  environmental health professionals on indoor air quality topics including asthma
  triggers, schools, radon, indoor air quality in large buildings, and community
  outreach; (2) Climate change tribal impacts, communications, and outreach; (3)
  Activities that advance methane recovery and use as a clean energy source; (4)
  Integrated assessment of multiple greenhouse gases, climate impacts, and
  pollution; (5) National Education Association Health Information Network; (6)
  Implementation of energy-efficient standards and labeling programs in
  developing countries; (7) Market transformation projects that will increase
  public awareness of the health benefits and cost savings assocaited with the use
  of energy efficient products and services; (8) Projects that involve regional
  outreach and education benefits of reneweable energy, encouraging state and
  local governments to make green power purchases; and (9) Demonstrating the
  effectiveness and viability of retrofit technologies in reducing harmful air
  emissions from existing diesel highway, heavy-duty vehicles and to acheive
  actual local emission reductions.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  EPA selects proposed Surveys, Studies, Research, and Investigations projects for
  funding based on factors such as relevancy to EPA's mission, technical merit,
  and the likelihood of success. If EPA issues a solicitation for applications for a
  particular project or group of projects, the solicitation will identify specific
  criteria. The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this
  CFDA description will be described in the competitive announcement.
66.035 COMMUNITY ACTION FOR A RENEWED
ENVIRONMENT (CARE) PROGRAM
