   (CARE)                                                                             
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF PREVENTION, PESTICIDES AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES,                              
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Clean Air Act, Section 103(b)(3) as amended; Clean Water Act, Section               
  104(b)(3), as amended; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001, as amended;          
  Toxics Substances Control Act, Section 10, as supplemented by Public Law            
  106-74 (1999); Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Section 20      
  (a), as supplemented by Public Law 106-74 (1999); Marine Protection,                
  Research, and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203, as amended; and National                
  Environmental Policy Act, Section 102(2)(F).                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To support analyses, studies, evaluations, surveys, investigations, conferences,    
  demonstrations and special purpose projects which empower communities to            
  reduce risks from exposures to toxic pollutants in the air, in the water, and on the
  land through collaborative action at the local level. Funding Priority - Fiscal     
  Year 2008: The CARE program aims to: (1) Reduce exposures to toxic                  
  pollutants through collaborative action at the local level; (2) Help communities    
  gain an understanding of all potential sources of exposure to toxic pollutants; (3) 
  Work with communities to set priorities for risk reduction activities; and, (4)     
  Create self sustaining, community based partnerships that will continue to          
  improve the local environment. The following program strategies will be used:       
  (1) Provide information and a variety of tools to help communities understand       
  and assess toxic risks; (2) Collaborate with community stakeholder groups to        
  prioritize plans for risk reduction; (3) Mobilize local resources and utilize EPA   
  voluntary programs to implement risk reduction activities; (4) Link EPA             
  programs together to efficiently support communities; (5) Create a positive         
  environment that encourages all members of the community including                  
  businesses and colleges and universities to join the collaborative partnership; (6) 
  Facilitate networking among CARE communities to share experiences and               
  lessons learned; and, (7) Build long term community capacity to continue            
  improving the local environment.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Cooperative Agreements are available to support recipients' allowable direct        
  costs incident to approved surveys, analyses, studies, evaluations,conferences,     
  investigations, demonstrations and special purpose projects plus allowable          
  indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and regulations.        
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to             
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information        
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Local, Public non-profit institution/organizations, Federally Recognized Indian     
  Tribal Government, Native American Organizations, Private nonprofit                 
  institution/organization, Quasi-public nonprofit institution/organization, local    
  government, colleges, universities, interstate and intrastate. Proposals to renew   
  or supplement existing projects are eligible to compete. See "Authorization"        
  listed above. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA         
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of   
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement               
  Competition Policy.                                                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Local, Public nonprofit institution/organizations, Federally Recognized Indian      
  Tribal Government, Native American Organizations, Private nonprofit                 
  institution/organization, Quasi-public nonprofit institution/organization, local    
  government, colleges, universities, interstate and intrastate.                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State         
  and local governments, and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for                 
  educational institutions, and OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions.    
  Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background,        
  academic training, experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out    
  projects. EPA may ask applicants or principle investigators to provide              
  curriculum vitae and relevant publications.                                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive       
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify    
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be     
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional             
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see      
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.        
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should          
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or  
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in  
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. For      
  competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals and/or     
  submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the    


                                                                                 11-08
  announcement of the competitive funding opportunity. Competition will be
  conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance
  agreements.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 3903R, Washington,
  DC 20460 or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix
  IV of the Catalog. Additional information on the EPA grant package can be
  found at: http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. Requests for Initial
  Proposals or Requests for Applications will specify application procedures.
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in Request for Applications
  or Request for Initial Proposals.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. Generally, EPA incrementally funds cooperative agreements. Approval of
  subsequent funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress,
  continued relevance of the projects to EPA's priorities, availability of funds, and
  Agency policy on the cooperative agreement process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  CERCLA 311(b)(3) requires that "to the maximum extent possible," EPA enter
  into an appropriate cost sharing arrangement with recipients of grants and
  cooperative agreements relating to innovative and alternative treatment
  technologies. EPA may waive the 311(b)(3) cost sharing requirement in
  appropriate cases. Matching requirements may be established in program
  guidance or the terms of competitive solicitations. This program has no statutory
  formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  EPA normally funds cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis. However,
  EPA can negotiate the project period with each applicant based on project
  requirements and most CARE awards will be for 18 to 36 months. EPA limits
  project periods to 5 years. Any resulting cooperative agreement awards will
  normally be awarded on a quarterly basis. Applicants will be notified of an
  award in accordance with the information specified in any resulting solicitation.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for cooperative agreements in the terms
  and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly, interim,
  and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention reports.
  Specific reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part
  30 and Part 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofit and universities)
  or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable depending upon the
  identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep financial records, including all
  documents supporting entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes
  in cooperative agreements available to personnel authorized to examine EPA
  recipients cooperative agreements records. Recipients must maintain all records
  until 3 years from the date of submission of final expenditure reports. If
  questions, such as those raised as a result of audits remain following the 3-year
  period, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely resolved.
                                                                                   903
