Account Identification:                                                             
  68-0108-0-1-304, Environmental Program Management (EPM).                          
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $1,900,000; FY 08 $3,400,000; and FY 09 est $2,400,000.                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  There is no minimum amount of assistance. Cooperative agreements awarded          
  based on Level 1 agreements will range from $75,000 to $100,000 with an           
  average Level 1 award of $90,000. Level II agreements will range from $150,000    
  to $300,00 with an average Level II award of $275,000.                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  The CARE program is a relatively new initiative. It uses two sets of cooperative  
  agreements. In the smaller Level I agreements, the community, working with        
  EPA, creates a collaborative problem solving group made up of the various         
  stakeholders in the community. That group assesses the community's toxic          
  exposure problems and begins to identify potential solutions. In the larger Level 
  II agreements, the community, working with EPA selects and funds projects that    
  reduce risk and improve the environment in the community. In FY07 we              
  received 30 applications and funded 22 projects, including two of the FY 05       
  Level I projects who successfully completed their project and competed for and    
  received a Level II grant. CARE communities have implemented a variety of         
  EPA Partnership Programs and reduced citizen's exposure to toxics including       
  lead, diesel emissions, mercury and environmental tobacco smoke. The              
  communities have also reduced emissions of green house gases.                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Environmental Policy and Innovation grants and cooperative agreements are         
  subject to EPA's General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part        
  31). Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for        
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for          
  educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions and   
  FAR Part 31 for profit makers.                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA       
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters        
  program contacts listed below.                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  For information on grant applications and procedures, contact: Environmental      
  Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division,         
  3903R, Washington, DC 20460. For Program Information contact: Larry               
  Weinstock, (202) 564-9226 weinstock.larry@epa.gov, Fax: (202) 564-7739.           
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.epa.gov/care/.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  CARE is a unique community-based, community-driven, multimedia                    
  demonstration program designed to help communities undersand and reduce           
  risks due to toxic and environmental pollutants from all sources. Projects funded 
  under the CARE program include: (1) the development of an assessment of           
  toxins and pollution sources used to educate residents about their impact on      
  local health and the environment; (2) assisting owners of homes with lead-based   
  paint in obtaining remediation funds and development of a neighborhood toxic      
  education program; (3) the study of all potential local sources of toxic risk in  
  order to develop a long-term voluntary toxics management system to reduce the     
  generation of toxic pollutants; (4) the creation of a Community Partnership that  
  is a multi-stakeholder group - that includes industries, communities, small       
  business owners - to conduct a community capacity building program to identify    
  the concerns of the communities and to discuss how to address them; and (5) a     
  collaborative project with community agencies to address the negative             
  environmental and public health impact that small automotive repair and body      
  shops have on their employees and neighbors, while avoiding putting shops out     
  of business by regulatory enforcement.                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Competitive applications and proposals will be selected in accordance with        
  announced criteria. Non-competitive proposals are judged for (a) technical merit  
  in terms of: (1) strengths and weaknesses of the project; (2) adequacy of overall 
  project design; (3) competency of proposed staff; (4) suitability of applicant's  
  available resources; (5) appropriateness of the proposed project period and       
  budget; and (6) probability that the project will accomplish stated objectives    
  and; for (b) program interest in terms of: (1) the need for the proposed project; 
  and (2) relationship to program objectives. The evaluation and selection criteria 
  for competitive awards under this CFDA description will be described in the       
  competitive announcement.                                                         
                                                                                    
66.036 CLEAN SCHOOL BUS USA                                                         
                                                                                    
      (CSBUSA)                                                                      
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF AIR AND RADIATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                             
  AGENCY                                                                            


904                                                                           11-08

AUTHORIZATION:
  FY 2006 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, H.R.
  2361, Energy Policy Act of 2005.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support projects relating to necessary upgrades to diesel school bus fleets.
  CSBUSA is a national initiative to minimize children's exposure to diesel
  exhaust by reducing pollution from school buses. The program has three key
  elements: (1) reduce school bus idling; (2) retrofit 1991-2006 model year buses
  with devices that reduce pollution, and (3) replace pre-1990 buses with new,
  clean-technology buses. Projects categorized under this CFDA are now funded
  under CFDA 66.039 and/or CFDA 66.040. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008:
  Projects categorized under this CFDA are now funded under CFDA 66.039
  and/or CFDA 66.040.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable
  direct costs incident to necessary upgrades to diesel school bus fleets plus
  allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and
  regulations. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or
  relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial
  information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Local and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, local and state
  governments, school districts, non-profit organizations. For certain competitive
  funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit
  eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with
  the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Local, Anyone/General Public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments and Indian Tribes. Applicants may be requested to
  demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training, experience in
  the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. Regarding pre-application/pre-
  proposal assistance with respect to competitive funding opportunities under this
  program description, EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-
  application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in
  the competitive announcement. For additional information, contact the
  individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog.
  EPA awards grants and cooperative agreements supporting the mission of the
  Office of Air and Radiation, based on competitive applications submitted in
  response to EPA solicitations, considering relevance and likelihood of success of
  proposed projects.
Application Procedure:
  EPA requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 3903R, Washington,
  DC 20460 or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix
  IV of the Catalog or downloaded from
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/forms/forms.htm. Applicants may be able to use
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  EPA will administratively evaluate each application to determine the adequacy
  of the application in relation to EPA's general grant regulations. EPA's Office of
  Air and Radiation and/or the 10 EPA regions will evaluate applications to
  determine the merit and relevance of proposed projects. Applications/proposals
  will also be reviewed in accordance with the terms, conditions and criteria in the
  solicitation/announcement of the competitive funding opportunity. Competitions
  will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing
  assistance agreements. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate
  applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms,
  conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions
  will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing
  assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  As stated in the Request for Applicants.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days after the request for applications.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
