  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also         
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."       
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients      
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                  
Renewals:                                                                              
  None. All projects will be fully funded.                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program does not have a statutory formula. The match required for this

  program is set at a minimum of 5%.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                       
  Projects categorized under this CFDA are now funded under CFDA 66.039                
  and/or CFDA 66.040.                                                                  
Reports:                                                                               
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in         
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,        
  interim and final progress reports, and financial and equipment reports.             
  Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part 30 and      
  Part 31.                                                                             
Audits:                                                                                
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the       
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,       
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.         
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each          
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,          
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                 
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in       
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:                                                                               
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting           
  entries in accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants available to     
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipient grants and cooperative                 
  agreement records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the       
  date of submission of the final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those     
  raised as a result of an audit remain following the 3-year period, recipients must   
  retain records until the matter is completely resolved.                              
Account Identification:                                                                
  68-0103-0-1-304.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $6,900,000; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 $0. Projects categorized under this

                                                                                       
  CFDA are now funded under CFDA 66.039 and/or CFDA 66.040.                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  There is no minimum or maximum amount of assistance. The general range of            
  the amount of assistance is $200,000 - $400,000. The average is $250,000.            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In FY 2007, EPA awarded 45 grants for an estimated $6,900,000. Projects              
  categorized under this CFDA are now funded under CFDA 66.039 and/or CFDA             
  66.040.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Clean School Bus USA grants and cooperative agreements are subject to EPA's          
  General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and Part 31).                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA

                                                                                       
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or Jennifer Keller of the

                                                                                       
  Clean School Bus USA program.

                                                                                       
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                       
  For program information, Contact: Jennifer Keller, Ariel Rios Building, 1200

                                                                                       
  Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code: 6405J, Washington, DC 20460.

                                                                                       
  Telephone: (202) 343-9541; Fax: (202) 343-2804; E-mail:

                                                                                       
  keller.jennifer@epa.gov.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.epa.gov/cleanschoolbus.

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  None.

EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Projects chosen in the Clean School Bus assistance agreement competition             
  include both the retrofitting of newer school buses and the purchase of new          
  buses to replace some of the very oldest in the nation's fleet. Examples of funded   
  projects include: a new hybrid-electric school bus; use of diesel oxidation          
  catalysts and biodiesel blended fuel (B20) for buses in three counties; retrofitting 
  of 11 school buses with advanced emission control technology to eliminate            
  particulate matter and volatile organic compounds which contribute to poor air       
                                                                                       
  quality; school bus retrofit project to reduce diesel emissions generated by

                                                                                       
  school buses used by special-needs children; and the installation of diesel

                                                                                       
  particulate filters or diesel oxidation catalysts and crankcase emission control

                                                                                       
  systems on school buses initiating the use of ultra low sulfer diesel fuel early and

                                                                                       
  in the interim support using biodiesel.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                       
                                                                                 11-08 
  EPA selects proposed Clean School Bus USA projects for funding based on
  criteria specified in the solicitation, and the likelihood of success, as well as
  factors such as relevancy to EPA's mission, and technical merit. If EPA issues a
  solicitation for applications for a particular project or group of projects, the
  solicitation will identify specific criteria. The evaluation and selection criteria
  for competitive awards under this CFDA description will be described in the
  competitive announcement.
66.037 INTERNSHIPS, TRAINING AND WORKSHOPS FOR
THE OFFICE OF AIR AND RADIATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF AIR AND RADIATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
  AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Air Act, Section 103(b)(3), as amended 42 U.S.C. 7403; National
  Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Section 102(2)(F), Public Law 91-190, 42
  U.S.C. 4332.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide, Internships, Training, Workshops, and Technical Monitoring in
  support of the Clean Air Act. These activities aim to: (1) support the
  development of career-oriented personnel qualified to work in occupations
  involving environmental protection and air pollution abatement and control; (2)
  provide technical training for State, local, territorial, and Indian Tribal
  environmental control agencies; (3) enhance the capability of state and local
  agencies responsible for environmental pollution control or other agencies with
  similar pollution control responsibilities; (4) provide educational renewal for
  career oriented personnel to achieve additional knowledge through academic
  professional training; (5) provide both undergraduate and graduate students in
  science, engineering, and other relevant fields with education and training
  opportunities to enhance their understanding of air quality-related topics; and, 6)
  to increase the quality and number of people into the environmental control
  field. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: This program will continue to
  provide training to tribes in all aspects of air quality, develop workshops in air
  quality based on identified needs, and provide technical support to ensure
  adequate information is provided to actually support programs and use
  knowledge developed in training workshops. In FY 2008, this program will also
  support education and training for undergraduate and graduate students
  interersted in acquiring science, engineering, and other knowledge necessary to
  help addess air quality and other environmental issues affecting communities
  along the US-Mexico Border.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable
  direct costs incident to approved projects for internships, training and workshops
  related to environmental issues plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with
  established EPA policies and regulations. This requirement does not involve
  geospatial information.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States, local
  governments, territories, Indian Tribes, and possessions of the U.S., including
  the Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Government, District of Columbia and
  possessions of the U.S., international organizations, public and private
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public or private
  nonprofit institutions, which submit applications proposing projects with
  significant technical merit and relevance to EPA's Office of Air and Radiation's
  mission. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement
  Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, universities and
  colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public and private nonprofit institutions,
  and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  educational institutions, and OMB Circular No. A-122 for non-profit
  institutions. Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they have appropriate
  background, academic training, experience in the field, and necessary equipment
  to carry out projects.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
                                                                                        905
