Application Procedure:                                                               
  EPA requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424, Requests for      
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,         
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 3903R, Washington,          
  DC 20460 or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix         
  IV of the Catalog or downloaded from                                               
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/forms/forms.htm. Applicants must submit their requests      
  for training assistance on EPA Standard Form 424 and the fellowship assistance     
  on EPA Standard Form 5770-2. Applicants may be able to use                         
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities      
  under this CFDA.                                                                   
Award Procedure:

  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated

  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance

                                                                                     
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  As stated in the Request for Applications or Request for Initial Proposals.        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Approximately 180 days after the deadline for the Request for Applications.        
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. All projects will be fully funded.                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  If the grant is not fully funded at time of award, EPA normally funds grants on a  
  12-month incremental basis. Each grant is limited to a three (3) year duration.    
Reports:                                                                             
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in       
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,      
  interim and final progress reports, and financial and equipment reports.           
  Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part 30 and    
  Part 31.                                                                           
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each        
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit               
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in     
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting         
  entries in accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants available to   
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipient grants and cooperative               
  agreement records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the     
  date of submission of the final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those   
  raised as a result of an audit remain following the 3-year period, recipients must 
  retain records until the matter is completely resolved.                            
Account Identification:                                                              
  68-0108-0-1-304. Awards funded using the following accounts: Environmental         
  Program and Management (EPM), and State and Tribal Air Grants (STAG).              
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $109,000; and FY 09 est $126,000.                                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  EPA generally awards grants ranging in value from $50,000 to $500,000 per          
  fiscal year. The average amount is $250,000.                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  There are no program accomplishment to report at this time. This is a new          
  program.                                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Training grants are subject to EPA's General Grant Regulations 40 CFR Part 30      
  and Part 31; 40 CFR Part 45; and EPA Annual Program Guidance provided to           
  State and Local agencies.                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA        
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters         
  program contacts listed below.                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                 


906                                                                            11-08

  For Program Information, contact: Linda Zarow, Office of Air and Radiation,
  Ariel Rios North Building, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code
  6101A, Washington, DC 20460; Telephone: (202) 564-7431; E-mail:
  zarow.linda@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.epa.gov/air.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  No examples of funded projects are available at this time. This is a new
  program.
66.038 TRAINING, INVESTIGATIONS, AND SPECIAL
PURPOSE ACTIVITIES OF FEDERALLY-RECOGNIZED
INDIAN TRIBES CONSISTENT WITH THE CLEAN AIR
ACT (CAA), TRIBAL SOVEREIGNTY AND THE
PROTECTION AND MANAGEMENT OF AIR QUALITY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF AIR AND RADIATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
  AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Air Act of 1963, Section 103, as amended, Public Law 95-95, 42 U.S.C.
  7403.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support Federally-recognized Indian Tribes' efforts to understand, assess and
  characterize air quality, and design methods and plans to protect and improve air
  quality on tribal lands through surveys, studies, research, training,
  investigations, and special purpose activities. To ensure tribes have appropriate
  levels of support and opportunity to understand their air quality and take
  proactive measures to preserve, restore and protect air quality for their
  reservations and other lands over which they have jurisdiction through tribal
  program implementation, CAA implementation, radiation protection, mobile
  source controls, and voluntary programs to address outdoor and indoor air and
  other concerns. To ensure that all tribes have the tools they need to understand
  and participate in local, regional and national issues, regulatory and policy
  developments, and to protect their air quality from activities off the reservation
  that may affect or impact them. To improve the ability of tribes to understand,
  define, design and participate in activities that affect their air quality. Funding
  Priority-Fiscal Year 2008: EPA and Tribes, in partnership, will protect public
  health, the environment, and unique Tribal air resources, consistent with the
  CAA, its Amendments, and EPA's trust responsibilities. This program will
  ensure Tribes have appropriate levels of support and opportunity to understand
  their own air quality and take proactive measures to preserve, restore, and
  protect air quality for their reservations and other lands over which they have
  jurisdiction through CAA implementation, radiation protection, mobile source
  controls, and voluntary programs to address idoor and outdoor air and other
  concerns. Activities will ensure that all Tribes have the tools they need to
  understand and participate in local, regional, and national issues and to protect
  their air quality from changes off reservation that may impact them. Key
  activities include: (1) Training and Program Development - this area includes
  technical, administrative, and policy related training conducted in-person, on-
  line, and/or by any remote technological method supporting the enhancement of
  skills that contribute to development of tribal air quality management activities;
  (2) Assessment and Monitoring - activities related to assessment may include
  short or long term efforts to define, design, understand, and assess in a
  qualitative or quantitative manner (such as through an emission or source
  inventory) the impacts of air pollutants to human health, the environment, and
  items of cultural importance. Monitoring includes numerous activities that
  gather data about the state of the environment and measuring the concentrations
  and potential effects of criteria and/or toxic air pollutants; (3) Developing
  capacity or a plan for eligibility under the Tribal Authority Rule - developing
  capacity includes activities that increase the experience and expertise of tribes to
  understand and assess air quality, including technical, administrative, policy,
  regulatory, education and outreach, communication skills, training, and building
  contacts, networks and experience. Capacity includes carrying-out these
  programs and activities, interacting with the national air program and providing
  input, guidance, and perspective to efforts to develop policies, regulations, and
  guidance at the local, regional, and national level including reading, report
  writing, grant writing and reporting, budgeting, public speaking, developing
  presentations, preparing comments, editing documents, operating and
  maintaining equipment, and participating in meetings. Developing a plan for
  eligibility under the Tribal Authority Rule (TAR) includes report reading and
  writing, grant writing and reporting, budgeting, public speaking, presentation
  development, comment preparation, document editing, equipment operation and
  maintenance, and meeting participation;
  (4)DelegationorOngoingCapabilityDevelopment - This activity includes
  developing technical, administrative, and management skills, knowledge, and
  abilities through experience, training, and education to enable activities such as
