  reading and interpreting federal regulations, operating equipment, preparing and   
  presenting technical information and reports, interacting with tribal communities  
  and governments, federal bureaucrats and bureaucracy, providing outreach and       
  education, public speaking, conducting public hearings, collecting and analyzing   
  data, developing plans and innovative approaches to pollution control in a         
  culturally sensitive manner; and (5) Tribal Implementation Plan development -      
  tribes may conduct all aspects of air quality management at an advanced level,     
  including data analysis, analyzing, interpreting and commenting on                 
  administrative and regulatory requirements and activities at local, state, regional
  and national levels, developing advanced technical, policy and planning            
  document preparation, and tribal government representation.                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipient's allowable   
  direct costs incident to approved Tribal air resources activities that will protect
  public health and the environment, plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance    
  with established EPA policies and regulations. Assistance agreement awards         
  under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further        
  information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the        
  following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Assistance under this program is generally available to Federally-recognized       
  Indian Tribes and Intertribal Consortia, which submit applications proposing       
  projects with significant technical merit and relevance to EPA's Office of Air     
  and Radiation's mission. For certain competitive funding opportunities under       
  this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number     
  or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance           
  Agreement Competition Policy.                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Federally-recognized Indian Tribes and Intertribal Consortia.                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments and Indian Tribes. Applicants may be requested to            
  demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training, experience in     
  the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects. EPA may ask applicants   
  or principle investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive      
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify   
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be    
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional            
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.      
  12372.                                                                             
Application Procedure:                                                               
  EPA requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for      
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,         
  Grants and Interagency Agreement Management Division, 3903R, Washington,           
  DC 20460 or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix         
  IV of the Catalog. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to          
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  As stated in the Request for Applications (RFA) or Request for Proposals (RFP).    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 180 days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and cooperative agreements         
  for Training, Investigations, and Special Purpose. Approval of subsequent          
  funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress, continued        
  relevance of the project to EPA's priorities, availability of funds, and Agency    
  policy on the competitive grant process.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  EPA normally funds grants and cooperataive agreements on a 12-month basis.         
  However, EPA can negotiate the project period with each applicant based on

  project requirements. EPA limits project periods to 5 years. Grants and            


                                                                                11-08
  cooperative agreements are generally fully funded or on an incremental funding
  basis. Successful applicants will be notified either via U.S. mail or
  electronically. Such notification is contingent upon information contained in the
  resulting solicitation.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations
  found at 40 CFR Part 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients are subject to the retention and access requirements for records under
  40 CFR Part 31.42. Recipients must keep financial records, including all
  documents supporting entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes
  in grants available to personnel authorized to examine EPA recipients' grant and
  cooperative agreement records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3
  years from the date of submission of final expenditure reports. If questions, such
  as those raised as a result of audits remain following the 3-year period, recipients
  must retain records until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-1810-0-1-304. Resulting awards are funded using the following accounts:
  Environmental Program & Management (EPM), Science & Technology (S&T),
  and State & Tribal Air Grants (STAG).
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $9,589,688; FY 09 est $9,590,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  There is no minimum amount of assistance; the maximum is $7,750,000. The
  general range of the amount of assistance is $25,000 to $500,000. The average is
  $75,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Training, Investigations, and Special Purpose grants and cooperative agreements
  are subject to EPA General Grant Regulations 40 CFR Part 31. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local
  governments and Indian Tribes.
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters
  program contacts listed below.
Headquarters Office:
  For information on grant applications and procedures, contact: Environmental
  Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreement Management Division,
  3903R, Washington, DC 20460. For program information contact: Darrel
  Harmon, Telephone: (202) 564-7416, E-mail: harmon.darrel@epa.gov, Fax:
  (202) 501-1153.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/air/tribal.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.001, Air Pollution Control Program Support; 66.034, Surveys, Studies,
  Research, Investigations, Demonstrations, and Special Purpose Activities
  Relating to the Clean Air Act.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Competitive applications and proposals are selected for funding based on factors
  such as relevancy to EPA's mission, technical merit, and the likelihood of
  success. The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this
  CFDA description will be described in the competitive announcement. Tribal
  Governments and inter-tribal consortia are exempted from competition under
  EPA Order 5700.5A1.
66.039 NATIONAL CLEAN DIESEL FUNDING ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM
   (DERA National Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
                                                                                    907
