  OFFICE OF AIR AND RADIATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                                
  AGENCY                                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  FY 2008 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, H.R.          
  2764; The Energy Policy Act of 2005, Public Law 109-58.                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  Sections 792 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 authorize EPA to award grants          
  and low-cost revolving loans to eligible entities to fund the costs of a retrofit    
  technology that significantly reduces emissions through development and              
  implementation of a certified engine configuration, verified technology, or          
  emerging technology for buses (including school buses), medium-duty or heavy-        
  duty trucks, marine engines, locomotives, or nonroad engines or vehicles used in     
  construction, handling of cargo (including at port or airport), agriculture,         
  mining, or energy production. In addition, eligible entities may also use funds      
  awarded for programs or projects to reduce long-duration idling using verified       
  technology involving a vehicle or equipment described above, or the creation of      
  low-cost revolving loan programs to finance diesel emissions reduction projects.     
  The objective of the assistance under this program is to achieve significant         
  reductions in diesel emissions in terms of tons of pollution produced and            
  reductions in diesel emissions exposure, particularly from fleets operating in       
  areas designated by the Administrator as poor air quality areas. Funding             
  Priority-Fiscal Year 2008: This program aims to work aggressively to reduce the      
  pollution emitted from diesel engines across the country through the                 
  implementation of varied control strategies and aggressive involvement of            
  national, state, and local partners. Priority shall be given to projects which:      
  Maximize public health benefits; Are the most cost-effective; Serve areas with       
  the highest population density, that are poor air quality areas (including           
  nonattainment or maintenance of national ambient air quality standards for a         
  criteria pollutant; Federal Class I areas; or areas with toxic air pollutant         
  concerns); Serve areas that receive a disproportionate quantity of air pollution     
  from diesel fleets, including truck stops, ports, rail yards, terminals, and         
  distribution centers or that use a community-based multi-stakeholder                 
  collaborative process to reduce toxic emissions; Include a certified engine          
  configuration, verified technology, or emerging technology that has a long           
  expected useful life; Will maximize the useful life of any certified engine          
  configuration, verified technology, or emerging technology used or funded by         
  the eligible entity; Conserve diesel fuel; and Utilize ultra low sulfur diesel fuel  
  (15 parts per million of sulfur content) ahead of EPA's mandate (for nonroad         
  projects).                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants and Cooperative agreements are available to support recipient's allowable     
  costs incident to supporting projects to reduce emissions from diesel engines,       
  plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and       
  regulations.No grant or loan provided under this program shall be used to fund       
  the costs of emissions reductions that are mandated under Federal, State or local    
  law. Voluntary or elective emission reduction measures shall not be considered       
  "mandated", regardless of whether the reductions are included in the State           
  implementation plan of a State. Distribution of Funds: 1) not less than 50           
  percent of funds available for a fiscal year under the DERA National Program         
  shall be provided to eligible entities for the benefit of public fleets; 2) not less 
  than 90 percent of funds available for a fiscal year under the DERA National         
  Program shall be provided to eligible entities for projects using-a certified        
  engine configuration; or a verified technology.3) not more than 10 percent of        
  funds available for a fiscal year under the DERA National Program shall be           
  provided to eligible entities for the development and commercialization of           
  emerging technologies.                                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  A regional, State, local or tribal agency or port authority with jurisdiction over   
  transportation or air quality; and a nonprofit organization or institution that      
  represents or provides pollution reduction or educational services to persons or     
  oganizations that own or operate diesel fleets; or has, as its principal purpose,    
  the promotion of transportation or air quality are eligible for assistance under     
  this program. City, county, or municipal agencies, school districts, and             
  metropolitan planning organizations (MPOs) that have jurisdiction over               
  transportation or air quality are all eligible entities under this program. For      
  certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the           
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible            
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition             
  Policy.                                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State, Local, Public Nonprofit Institution/Organization, Anyone/General Public.      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with Office of Management and Budget          
  (OMB) Circular A-87, found at 2 CFR 225, for State and local governments and         
  Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21, found at 2 CFR 220, for educational            
  institutions, and OMB Circular No. A-122, found at 2 CFR 230, for nonprofit          
  institutions. Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they have appropriate       
  background, academic training, experience in the field, and necessary equipment      


908                                                                              11-08

  to carry out projects.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  By law Section 792 includes application requirements. In addition, EPA requires
  final applications to be made on Standard Form 424, Application for Federal
  Assistance. Requests for application kits must be submitted to the
  Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements
  Management Division, 3903R, Washington, DC 20460. Standard Form 424 is
  also available for download at EPA's Office of Grants and Debarment (OGD)
  web site, http://www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/application.htm, from
  www.grants.gov, or from EPA Regional Collaborative assistance agreement
  websites. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically
  apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA's Office of Air and Radiation and/or the 10 EPA
  Regions will review and evaluate applications, proposals, and/or submissions in
  accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive
  announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA
  policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in the Request for
  Applications or Request for Proposals.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days after the request for applications.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Permitted. Generally, EPA incrementally funds cooperative agreements.
  Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project
  progress, continued relevance of the projects to EPA's priorities, availability of
  funds, and Agency policy on the cooperative agreement process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The grants and cooperative agreements funded under the National Clean Diesel
  Funding Assistance Program will have up to a five-year project period. FY 2008
  is the first year of funding for this Program.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Specific reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant
  Regulations 40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting
  entries in accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipient grants and cooperative
  agreement records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the
  date of submission of the final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those
  raised as a result of an audit remain following the 3-year period, recipients must
  retain records until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304.
