Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $34,400,000; and FY 09 est $35,000,000.                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  There is no minimum amount of assistance. Smaller grants typically range from       
  $100,000 - $300,000 with an average award of $125,000. Larger grants typically      
  range from $500,000 - $2 million with an average award of $650,000.                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Diesel Emissions Reduction program grants and cooperative agreements are            
  subject to EPA's general grant regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and Part 31).            
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA         
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or Jennifer Keller.            
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  For program information, contact: Jennifer Keller, Environmental Protection         
  Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code: 6405J, Washington, DC            
  20460; Telephone: (202) 343-9541; Fax: (202) 343-2803; E-mail:                      
  keller.jennifer@epa.gov.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/cleandiesel.                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  66.034, Surveys, Studies, Research, Investigations, Demonstrations, and Special     
  Purpose Activities Relating to the Clean Air Act; 66.306, Environmental Justice     
  Collaborative Problem-Solving Cooperative Agreement Program; 66.039,                
  National Clean Diesel Funding Assistance Program.                                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Projects that may be eligible include a variety of diesel emissions reductions      
  solutions such as: add-on emission control retrofit technologies; idle reduction    
  technologies; cleaner fuel use; engine repowers; engine upgrades; and/or vehicle    
  or equipment replacement; and the creation of low-cost revolving loan programs      
  to finance diesel emissions reduction projects. Eligible vehicles, engines and      
  equipment may include: buses (including school buses); medium-duty or heavy-        
  duty trucks; marine engines; locomotives; and nonroad engines or vehicles used      
  in: (i) construction; (ii) handling or cargo (including at a port or airport); (iii)
  agriculture; (iv) mining; or v) energy production (including stationary engines     
  such as generators or pumps).                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA        
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                      
                                                                                      
66.040 STATE CLEAN DIESEL GRANT PROGRAM                                               
                                                                                      
   (DERA State Program)                                                               
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF AIR AND RADIATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                               
  AGENCY                                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  FY 2008 Interior, Environment and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, H.R.         
  2764; The Energy Policy Act of 2005, Public Law 109-58.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  Section 793 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 authorizes EPA to award                
  assistance agreements to States to develop and implement such grant and low-        
  cost revolving loan programs in the State as are appropriate to meet State needs    
  and goals relating to the reduction of diesel emissions. Funding Priority-Fiscal    
  Year 2008: To the extent practicable, States receiving assistance under this        
  program shall give priority to projects which: Maximize public health benefits;     
  Are the most cost-effective; Serve areas with the highest population density, that  
  are poor air quality areas (including nonattainment or maintenance of national      
  ambient air quality standards for a criteria pollutant; Federal Class I areas; or   
  areas with toxic air pollutant concerns); Serve areas that receive a                
  disproportionate quantity of air pollution from diesel fleets, including truck      
  stops, ports, rail yards, terminals, and distribution centers or that use a         
  community-based multi-stakeholder collaborative process to reduce toxic             
  emissions; Include a certified engine configuration, verified technology, or        
  emerging technology that has a long expected useful life; Maximize the useful       
  life of any certified engine configuration, verified technology, or emerging        
  technology used or funded by the eligible entity; Conserve diesel fuel; and         
  Utilize ultra low sulfur diesel fuel (15 parts per million of sulfur content) ahead 
  of EPA's mandate (for nonroad projects).                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support the development and      
  implementation of such grant and low-cost revolving loan programs in a State as     
  are appropriate to meet State needs and goals relating to the reduction of diesel   
  emissions. A grant or loan funded by the State using funds from the DERA State      
  Program may be used for a project relating to a certified engine configuration or   
  a verified technology. Funds received under Subtitle G of the Energy Policy Act     


                                                                                 11-08
  (Diesel Emissions Reduction) may not be used to pay a matching share under
  this program. Funds may be used for projects involving EPA-verified and/or
  California Air Resources Board (CARB) -listed diesel emissions reduction
  technologies and/or EPA certified engines, or emerging diesel emissions
  reduction technologies or strategies.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is available to the 50 States.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State, Local, Public Nonprofit Institution/Organization, Anyone/General Public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs for State governments will be determined in accordance with Office of
  Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-87, found at 2 CFR 225.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to this program
  description, EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-
  proposal assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  EPA requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424, Application
  for Federal Assistance. Requests for application kits must be submitted to the
  Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements
  Management Division, 3903R, Washington, DC 20460. Standard Form 424 is
  also available for download at EPA's Office of Grants and Debarment (OGD)
  website, http://www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/application.htm, from
  www.grants.gov, or from EPA Regional Collaborative assistance agreement
  websites. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically
  apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  EPA's Office of Air and Radiation and/or the 10 EPA Regions will review and
  evaluate applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the
  terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the Federal Register Notice of
  Availability of Funds for this program.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be specified in the Federal Register Notice of Availability of
  Funds for this program.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days after the request for applications.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Permitted. Generally, EPA incrementally funds cooperative agreements.
  Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project
  progress, continued relevance of the projects to EPA's priorities, availability of
  funds, and Agency policy on the cooperative agreement process as outlined in
  the Federal Register Notice of Availability of Funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has a statutory allocation formula (Subtitle G - Diesel Emissions
  Reduction, Section 793(c)(2)). There is no match requirement for this program.
  However, there is an incentive match provision (Subtitle G - Diesel Emissions
  Reduction, Section 793(c)(3)).
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants and cooperative agreements funded under this program may have up to a
  seven-year project period. Applicants will be notified of an award in accordance
  with the information specified in the Federal Register Notice of Availability of
  Funds.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Specific reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant
  Regulations at 40 CFR Part 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting
                                                                                  909
