  entries in accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants available to    
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipient grants and cooperative                
  agreement records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the      
  date of submission of the final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those    
  raised as a result of an audit remain following the 3-year period, recipients must  
  retain records until the matter is completely resolved.                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  68-0103-0-1-304.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $14,800,000; and FY 09 est $15,000,000.                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  There is no minimum or maximum amount of assistance. The range is estimated         
  from $300,000 to $3,000,000 with an average award of $300,000, depending on         
  the number of States participating.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  There are no program accomplishments to report at this time. This is a new          
  program.                                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  State Clean Diesel Grant Program grants and cooperative agreements are subject      
  to EPA's general grant regulations (40 CFR Part 31). Guidelines for applying for    
  funds under this program will be published in the Federal Register.                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA         
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or Jennifer Keller.            
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  For program information, contact: Jennifer Keller, US Environmental Protection      
  Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code: 6405J, Washington, DC.           
  20460; Telephone: (202) 343-9541; Fax: (202) 343-2803; E-mail:                      
  keller.jennifer@epa.gov.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/cleandiesel.                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  66.034, Surveys, Studies, Research, Investigations, Demonstrations, and Special

                                                                                      
  Purpose Activities Relating to the Clean Air Act.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  States may use funds under this program to develop and implement grant and

                                                                                      
  loan programs that are designed to achieve significant reductions in diesel

                                                                                      
  emissions and are appropriate to meet State needs and goals relating to the

                                                                                      
  reduction of diesel emissions. State grant and loan programs may fund projects

                                                                                      
  relating to a certified engine configuration or a verified technology for vehicles,

                                                                                      
  engines and equipment, including: buses; medium-duty or heavy-duty trucks;

                                                                                      
  marine engines; locomotives; and nonroad engines or vehicles used in: i)

                                                                                      
  construction; ii) handling or cargo (including at a port or airport); iii)

                                                                                      
  agriculture; iv)mining; or v) energy production. Projects under the State's grant

                                                                                      
  program may include, but are not limited to, a variety of diesel emissions

                                                                                      
  reductions solutions such as: add-on emission control retrofit technologies; idle

                                                                                      
  reduction technologies; cleaner fuel use; engine repowers; engine upgrades;

                                                                                      
  and/or vehicle or equipment replacement; and the creation of low-cost revolving

                                                                                      
  loan programs to finance diesel emissions reduction projects.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  The evaluation and selection criteria for awards under this CFDA description

                                                                                      
  will be described in the Federal Register Notice of Availability of Funds.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
66.110 HEALTHY COMMUNITIES GRANT PROGRAM                                              
      (Healthy Communities)                                                           
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  REGION I, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Clean Air Act, Section 103; Clean Water Act, Section 104(b)(3); Safe Drinking       
  Water Act of 1974, Section 1442(a)(b)(c); Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and       
  Rodenticide Act, Section 20; National Environmental Education Act, Section 6;       
  Pollution Prevention Act, Section 6605; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section           
  8001; Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended; Toxic             
  Substances Control Act, Section 10, as amended; and Indian Environmental            
  General Assistance Program Act.                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  Grants are awarded to support projects that meet two criteria: (1) They must be     
  located in and directly benefit one or more Target Investment Areas                 
  (Environmental Justice Areas of Potential Concern, Places with High Risks from      
  Toxic Air Pollution, Sensitive Populations, and/or Urban Areas); and (2) They       
  must achieve measurable environmental and public health results in one or more      
  of the Target Program Areas (generally defined in the annual competitive            
  funding announcement). Funds for all projects should support activities to          
  restore or revitalize the environment, provide education, outreach, training,       
  organize, or conduct community planning activities in the Target Program            
  Areas. The Regional Office will only accept submissions for projects that affect    
  the States, Tribes, and Territories within the six New England States:              
  Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode Island, and                 


910                                                                             11-08

Vermont. Projects that are National in scope are not eligible for funding under
this Regional Program. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Asthma: Projects
that increase the number of people with asthma who take actions to reduce their
exposure to environmental triggers (improved self-management of asthma).
Projects should identify, disseminate and promote the use of existing or
innovative education and outreach products and services with proven
effectiveness. Projects can target geographic areas and various settings (e.g.,
communities, schools, homes/housing, etc.) and address indoor air quality
issues. Healthy homes approaches should include interventions to reduce
environmental triggers such as integrated pest management and reduction of
indoor air pollutants (e.g. particulate matter, dust, mold, environmental tobacco
smoke, etc.). Applicants are encouraged to integrate environmental trigger
avoidance into comprehensive asthma management programs, as recommended
by the National Asthma Education Prevention Program (NAEPP)
http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov/about/naepp/. Applicants are further encouraged to
integrate comprehensive asthma management programs into holistic "Healthy
Homes" approaches to environmental diseases as well as partnerships with
managed care organizations and health care payers to incorporate the
environmental aspects of asthma into provider referral and reimbursement
systems. While it is appropriate to place environmental trigger avoidance into
the broader context of medical management in EPA-funded activities, where
non-environmental asthma management (e.g., medical management) activities
are proposed, applicants must be prepared to document alternative funding
sources for such activities. Capacity Building on Environmental and Public
Health Issues: Projects that increase regional, state, tribal, community, and
neighborhood access to information, dialogue, collection and use of data (e.g.,
GIS mapping, risk evaluation, risk mitigation, collecting emissions data, etc.),
and/or improve methods of risk characterization; organize and sponsor
community training events, or other forums that increase citizen involvement in
understanding or addressing environmental and public health issues (topics may
include, but are not limited to: environmental justice, indoor/ambient air quality,
lead, asthma, pesticides, transportation, urban rivers/wetlands, water quality,
open/green space, and/or energy); build new or strengthen existing coalitions to
address schools, States, or regional programs and one or more other
environmental and public health issue(s) are encouraged. Research projects,
surveys, trainings and/or studies that address tribal compliance assistance, tribal
compliance monitoring, and/or tribal enforcement issues associated with waste
management, schools and public water systems on federally recognized tribal
lands in New England are also encouraged. Clean Energy: Projects that promote
clean energy, through energy efficiency measures that reduce energy
consumption, or through the generation of energy from
renewable resources, including solar, wind, biomass, and geothermal sources are
priorities for EPA. Priority sectors for energy efficiency and renewables include
municipalities, schools, and colleges and universities. Municipal projects should
focus on reducing energy consumption within municipal buildings, including
offices, schools and wastewater treatment plants. In general, these projects
should focus on more efficient use of energy, and water, as well as the potential
use of renewable energy to supply electricity or heat to a facility in place of
power provided by the local utility. Proposed projects in this Target Program
Area require a 5% match. Please see Section III B, Matching for additional
information. Healthy Indoor/Outdoor Environments: Projects that focus on
reducing and/or preventing childhood lead poisoning, reducing asthma triggers,
promoting integrated pest management; reducing childhood exposure to one or
more toxins (PCBs, dioxin, mercury, lead, pesticides, etc.) and promoting
comprehensive healthy homes and other indoor environments are encouraged.
Projects that reduce indoor or ambient air toxics in a city, community or county,
including those to create and implement risk management plans, conduct risk
screening, build technical training capacity to help reduce community exposure
to indoor and or outdoor air toxics are also encouraged under this category.
Healthy Schools: Projects that train K-12 school teams to implement EPA's
Indoor Air Quality Tools for Schools program
(http://www.epa.gov/iaq/schools/tooklit.html) through state-wide, regional, or
local workshops; develop or support a systems approach to improving
environmental conditions in schools including customization and
implementation of EPA's Healthy School Environments Assessment Tool
(Healthy SEAT); train K-12 school teams to address asthma triggers, deploy
integrated pest management techniques particularly in urban areas and/or tribal
schools (www.epa.gov/iaq/schools/asthma); or efforts which combine several
project areas described in this grant solicitation are encouraged. For more
information on creating healthy school environments, please visit
www.epa.gov/schools. Pollution Prevention and Recycling: Projects that prevent
pollution at the source of production through toxic use reduction and the more
efficient use of materials, energy, water, and natural resources; and projects that
reduce environmental impacts by promoting recycling, composting, waste
minimization, beneficial reuse, market development, and sustainable purchasing
practices. Priority sectors for pollution prevention and recycling include K-12
schools, hospitals and healthcare facilities, marinas, and colleges and
universities. K-12 schools projects should focus on more efficient use of energy,
water, reduction of waste generation and/or natural resources including
