  recycling, composting, and/or chemical management (www.epa.gov/sc3). Smart         
  Growth: Projects that encourage compact, mixed-use, transit-oriented,              
  pedestrian-friendly development in urban areas. Smart growth can improve air       
  quality by replacing some motor vehicle trips with walking, biking, and other      
  clean forms of transportation, reducing exposure to airborne pollutants and risk   
  of respiratory illnesses. Smart growth also can improve water quality by           
  reducing impervious surfaces and preserving green spaces both of which can         
  reduce exposure to waterborne pollutants. Examples of smart growth projects        
  include community involvement in development and redevelopment projects;           
  environmentally-sound reuse of vacant lots; improved transportation choices,       
  including transit, pedestrian, and bicycle facilities; and projects that improve   
  public health through improvements to the built environment. Urban Natural         
  Resources and Open/Green Space: Projects that train and educate the general        
  public on ways to identify, prevent and/or reduce or eliminate toxic substances    
  and contamination on vacant lots and open/green space; train                       
  and educate the general public or other community stakeholders on ways to          
  increase community access to urban rivers and other urban natural resources if     
  such access is related to the causes, effects, extent, reduction, prevention and/or
  elimination of pollution; train and educate groups of urban community              
  stakeholders on methods to identify, reduce, prevent or eliminate exposures to     
  pollution in soil, air or water; train groups, community/neighborhood              
  stakeholders, and/or residents in holistic and comprehensive approaches for        
  promoting pollution prevention efforts in a sustainable manner that improves,      
  protects and/or enhances the ecological health of urban natural resources. Water   
  Quality Monitoring or Analyses: Projects that focus on determining the quality     
  of a particular water body or watershed, identifying water quality problem(s),     
  and/or determining the cause of pollution through water quality monitoring         
  and/or analyses of water bodies. Projects should involve community groups,         
  educational institutions, watershed groups and/or other organizations. Projects    
  can provide and/or support educational opportunities for students, interns or      
  citizens to learn more about science, biology and water quality monitoring.        
  Projects focusing on urban and/or environmental justice areas are encouraged.      
  Other Topics and Issues: On an annual basis, the competitive annoucement may       
  identify additional funding priorities.                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to            
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information       
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Assistance under this program is available to State, Local, public nonprofit       
  institutions/organizations, private nonprofit institutions/organizations, quasi-   
  public nonprofit institutions/organizations, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal    
  Governments, K-12 schools or school districts; and non-profit organizations        
  (e.g. grassroots and/or community-based organizations). Funding will be            
  considered for a college or university to support a project with substantial       
  community involvement. Private businesses, federal agencies, and individuals       
  are not eligible to be grant recipients; however, they are encouraged to work in   
  partnership with eligible applicants on projects. Applicants need not be located   
  within the boundaries of the EPA regional office to be eligible to apply for       
  funding but must propose projects that affect the States, Tribes, and Territories  
  within their Region. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this      
  CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or       
  subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement    
  Competition Policy.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State, Local, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, public nonprofit     
  institutions/organizations, private nonprofit institutions/organizations, quasi-   
  public nonprofit institutions/organizations, anyone/general public.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Tribes may be asked to demonstrate that they are federally recognized. Interstate  
  organizations may be asked to provide a citation to the statutory authority, which 
  establishes their status. Intertribal consortia may be asked to provide            
  documentation that they meet the requirements of 40 CFR Part 35.504. Non-          
  profit applicants are not required to have a formal Internal Revenue Service       
  (IRS) nonprofit designation, such as 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4); however they must     
  present their letter of incorporation or other documentation demonstrating their   
  non-profit or not-for-profit status. This requirement does not apply to public     
  agencies or Federally Recognized Indian Tribes. Failure to enclose the letter of   
  incorporation or other documentation demonstrating non-profit or not-for-profit    
  status will render full proposal submissions incomplete and they will not be       
  reviewed. Applicants who have an IRS 501(c)(4) designation are not eligible for    
  grants if they engage in lobbying, no matter what the source of funding for the    
  lobbying activities. For-profit enterprises are not eligible to receive sub-grants 
  from eligible recipients, although they may receive contracts, subject to EPA's    
  regulations on procurement under assistance agreements, 40 CFR 30.40 (for          
  non-governmental recipients) and 40 CFR 31.36 (for governments).                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  For competitive awards, a one page summary format is provided in the               


                                                                                11-08
  competitive announcement. Applicants invited to submit a full proposal are
  required to submit the SF 424, 424A, 424B, and the pre-award compliance
  report. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to
  competitive funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will
  generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if
  any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For
  additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts"
  or see Appendix IV of the Catalog. Interested applicants should review
  information on the Internet at: http://www.epa.gov/ne/eco/uep/hcgp.html.This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The Healthy Communities Grant Program has a two step process for evaluating
  competitive applications which is described in the annual Request for Initial
  Proposals. The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency
  and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program.
  Application forms are available at http://www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/index.htm
  and by mail upon request to the Grants and Interagency Agreements
  Management Division at (202) 564-5305. Completed applications should be
  submitted to the Region I Office. Applicants may be able to use
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines for competitive awards will be specified in the annual competitive
  funding announcement.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants will be notified within 60 days of receipt of submission for funding.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  All competitive grant awards should be prepared and submitted as new projects,
  which will be evaluated based on criteria specified in annual competitive
  funding announcement. Renewals or extensions of existing projects may be
  available.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The grant program generally allows a match of up to 5 percent of the total
  budget but it is not required. Any exceptions will be identified in the competitive
  funding announcement. Award recipients can use contributions from entities
  other than themselves as a match. However, other Federal money cannot be used
  as the match for this grant program. Matching funds are considered grant funds.
  They must be used for the reasonable and necessary expenses of carrying out the
  assistance agreement work plan. Any restrictions on the use of grant funds (e.g.,
  prohibition of land acquisition with grant funds) also apply to the matching
  funds. This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance agreements are normally funded on a 12 (annual) or 24 month basis,
  at the discretion of the applicant. There is no restriction placed on the time
  permitted to spend the money awarded as long as the money is spent within the
  budget and project periods of the award specified in the workplan and the
  budget worksheet in the SF 424.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for cooperative agreements in the terms
  and conditions of the agreements. Cooperative agreements require quarterly and
  final progress and expenditure reports; program evaluations and other reports as
  detailed by the specific terms and conditions of the agreements.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
                                                                                   911
