Records:                                                                                
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting           
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant must be kept available to           
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be               
  maintained until expiration of three years from the date of submission of the         
  final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result 
  of audit, related records should be retained until the matter is completely           
  resolved.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                                 
  68-0108-0-1-304.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $592,410; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available. The             
  Healthy Communities Grant Program combines resources across contributing              
  regional and national programs and varies annually.                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $10,789 to $35,000/fiscal year; $29,621/fiscal year.                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  All projects funded through the Healthy Communities Program reduce                    
  environmental risks, and protect and improve human health and the quality of          
  life to create healthy communities and ecosystems. Specific outputs, services         
  and results vary based on each project and Target Program Area(s)identified.          
  Overall program accomplishments include, but are not limited to: reduction in         
  childhood lead poisoning, increased education and outreach related to                 
  environment and public health issues, reduction in asthma emergency room              
  visits, increased water quality data and information on urban rivers and              
  wetlands, and increased number of school teams trained or provided technical          
  assistance. In 2007, 91 initial submissions were received and of those, 57            
  applicants were invited to submit a full proposal. Fifty-four applicants submitted    
  full proposals and of those, 20 awards were granted in fiscal year 2007. It is        
  anticipated that 10-20 awards will be granted in fiscal year 2008.                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Grants and cooperative agreements awarded under the Healthy Communities               
  Grant Program are subject to EPA's General Grant Regulations, and Procedures          
  (40 CFR Parts 30 and 40 CFR Parts 31). Costs will be determined on accordance         
  with OMB Circular A-87 for State and Local governments and Indian Tribes,             
  OMB Circular A-21 for educational institutions and OMB Circular A-122 for             
  nonprofit institutions.                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Sandra Brownell, EPA Region I, 1 Congress Street, CPT, Suite 1100, Boston,            
  MA 02114. Telephone: (617) 918-1797. Toll Free: (888) 372-7341. TTY: (617)            
  918-2028. Fax: (617) 918-0797. E-Mail: Brownell.Sandra@epa.gov.                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  None.                                                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.epa.gov/region01/index.html.                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Examples of funded projects include such activities as: (1) Assisting school

                                                                                        
  teams to reduce the prevalence of asthma triggers in urban school districts; (2)      
  Conducting an education and outreach campaign in low-income diverse urban             
  neighborhoods on vehicle idling, asthma, and ambient air quality; (3) Identifying     
  neighborhood environmental and/or public health concerns to local residents and

                                                                                        
  developing strategies to measurably improve the local environment and/or public       
  health; (4) Developing an integrated pest management program which focuses            
  on reducing pesticide exposures for elderly populations; and (5) Developing and       
  implementing a volunteer water monitoring program to measure and track the            
  water quality of a water body or watershed in a community. There are many             
  other types of eligible projects. This grant program is designed to allow             
  applicants the flexibility to propose a project that fits community needs and         
  funding priorities. Additional examples of funded projects can be found at            
  http://www.epa.gov/ne/eco/uep/hcgp.html.                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA

                                                                                        
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                        
                                                                                        
66.111 REGIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL PRIORITY                                                  
PROJECTS                                                                                
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  REGION 7, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide         
  Act, Section 20; Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section        
  8001; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic Substances Control Act,            
  Section 10.                                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To support investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys,            
  studies, and special purpose assistance to protect public health and prevent,         
  reduce, and eliminate pollution in Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, and Nebraska.              


912                                                                               11-08

  Projects may be single media or multimedia which support the regional
  environmental priorities. Single media grants support pollution prevention
  efforts for individual environmental law statutes. Multimedia grants are
  assistance agreements that are awarded citing two or more environmental law
  statutes, appropriation legislation, or applicable legislative history as the
  statutory authority. Funding Priority 2008 - Funded projects will focus on the
  regional environmental priorities and include unique, geographically-based
  projects that support the Agency's ability to protect human health and the
  environment. These projects may address places, sectors, or innovative projects,
  and focus on prevention, agriculture, climate change and energy, and/or
  collaborative efforts to protect human health and the environment and achieve
  environmental results. These projects may also demonstrate state, local, and/or
  other stakeholder participation; identify opportunities for leveraging other
  sources of funding; or support smart growth planning in communities. Smart
  growth projects are those focused on improving the quality of life in
  communities by integrating the tenets of ecology, equity and management by
  citizens.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable
  direct costs incident to approved investigations, experiments, training,
  demonstrations, surveys, studies, and special purpose assistance plus allowable
  indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and regulations.
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov."
  "Geospatial Information" includes: Information that identifies the geographic
  location and characteristics of natural or constructed features or boundaries on
  the Earth, or applications, tools, and hardware associated with the generation,
  maintenance, or distribution of such information. This information may be
  derived from, among other things, GPS, remote sensing, mapping, charting, and
  surveying technologies, or statistical data.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States, territories, Indian
  Tribes, and possessions of the U.S., including the District of Columbia; public
  and private universities and colleges; hospitals; laboratories; other public or
  private nonprofit institutions; for-profit groups; and individuals which submit
  applications proposing projects with significant technical merit and relevance to
  EPA's mission. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement
  Competition Policy. Nonprofit organizations must be able to demonstrate that
  they are eligible through documentation of nonprofit status provided the U.S.
  Internal Revenue Service or their state of incorporation. However, nonprofit
  organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that
  engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure
  Act of 1995 are not eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, Indian Tribes,
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public and private
  nonprofit institutions, and individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions, and
  FAR Part 31 for profit makers. Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they
  have appropriate background, academic training, experience in the field, and
  necessary equipment to carry out projects. EPA may ask applicants or principle
  investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications. Nonprofit
  organizations must be able to demonstrate that they are eligible through
  documentation of nonprofit status provided the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or
  their state of incorporation.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. If an applicant submits an unsolicited proposal it
  will be reviewed and evaluated in accordance with Agency policy and
  procedures. For more information regarding the procedures for submitting
  unsolicited proposals, applicants may contact the individual(s) listed as
  "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
