  EPA requires eligible applicants to submit Standard Form 424, Application for      
  Federal Assistance. Application kits should be requested from and submitted to     
  the Environmental Protection Agency, Grants Administration Office, 901 N. 5th      
  Street, Kansas City, Kansas 66101. Detailed information and assistance,            
  including Standard Form 424 are available at                                       
  http://www.epa.gov/region07/economics/index.htm. For competitive awards,           
  Requests for Initial Proposals, Requests for Proposals, or Requests for            
  Applications will specify application procedures. Applicants may be able to use    
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities      
  under this CFDA.                                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in                 
  accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.      
  While applicants may submit unsolicited proposals, such proposals are funded       
  only under very limited circumstances and in accordance with Agency                
  procedures. Unsolicited proposals will be reviewed and evaluated based on          
  criteria including but not limited to (i) the extent the proposal is unique or     
  innovative, (ii) whether the proposal was independently originated and             
  developed by the applicant, (iii) and the extent the proposal supports regional    
  priorities and/or efforts to protect the environment and public health.            
Deadlines:                                                                           
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in Request for Applications    
  or Request for Initial Proposals. Unsolicited proposals may be submitted at any    
  time.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 180 days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new       
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and   
  will compete for available funds. EPA can incrementally fund grants and            
  cooperative agreements for investigations, experiments, training,                  
  demonstrations, surveys, studies, and special purpose assistance. Approval of      
  subsequent funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress,       
  continued relevance of the project to EPA's priorities, and availability of funds. 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants and cooperative agreements are normally funded on a 12-month basis          
  (annual) and will be paid electronically utilizing automated funds transfer. The   
  total approved project period may not exceed 5 years for competitive awards.       
Reports:                                                                             
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in       
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,      
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention       
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part  
  30 and Part 31.                                                                    
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the

  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.

  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each        
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit               
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in

  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting         
  entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants, available to  
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipients grants and cooperative              
  agreements records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the    
  date of submission of final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those raised
  as a result of audits remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain   
  records until the matter is completely resolved.                                   
Account Identification:                                                              
  68-0108-0-1-304 and 68-0103-0-1-304.                                               
Obligations:                                                                         
  Funds awarded for: FY 07 $392,100; FY 08 $114,900 and FY 09, $100,000.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                     
                                                                                11-08
  In fiscal year 2007, projects funded from Regional Geographic Initiative and
  Environmental Priority Program funding ranged from a low of $14,900 to a high
  of $100,000, with an average of $57,450 per project. No project have been
  funded thus far for FY 08.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In recent years, Regional Geographic Initiative and Environmental Priority
  Program funding has primarily supported work on water quality issues involving
  small communities to ensure community systems provide water that meets all
  applicable health-based drinking water standards through effective treatment and
  source water protection; nitrate levels are reduced and community awareness is
  increased to prevent water pollution. Funding has been provided for air quality
  issues including reduction of truck congestion, idling and safety concerns caused
  by the large number of grain trucks in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Funding supported
  the Blue Skyways Collaboratives work for Cargill and other area industries to
  provide alternatives to truck idling in a main area of downtown Cedar Rapids.
  On-farm assistance has also been provided to address energy efficiency and air
  pollution reductions in the central plains and to fund and support an
  Environmental Finance Center to assist small communities, businesses and
  organizations with the environmental protection and regulatory compliance
  activity funding challenges. Thirteen applications have been received with
  funding provided to nine projects (FY 07 3 proposals were funded and FY 08 6
  proposals have been funded).
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, studies, and
  special purpose grants and cooperative agreements are subject to EPA's General
  Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part 31).
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the EPA Region 7
  located at 901 N. 5th Street, Kansas City, KS 66101, Wendy Lubbe, Telephone:
  (913) 551-7551; Fax: (913) 551-9551, E-mail: lubbe.wendy@epa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Not applicable.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/region07/economics/index.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of Projects funded include: Study to evaluate best management
  practices for removal of atrazine from agricultural run-off in the amount of
  $95,023; Watershed Council and Technical Assistance project for Watershed
  management in the amount of $99,841; Satellite Environmental Finance Center
  to assist small communities, businesses, and organizations with development of
  environmental protection activities in the amount of $100,000; Mercury
  Thermometer Exchange project in the amount of $10,000; Blue Skyways project
  to develop green energy templates for schools in the amount of $30,000;
  Watershed, Wetland and Stream Corridor Restoration projects in the amount of
  $15,ooo; Long Term Control Plan review project for 2 cities with combined
  storm sewer overflows in the amount of $12,349; Environmental Finance Center
  to assist small communities, businesses, and organizations with the
  environmental protection and regulatory compliance activities funding
  challenges in the amount of $100,000.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  EPA selects proposed projects for funding based on factors such as relevancy to
  EPA's mission, technical merit, and the likelihood of success. The evaluation
  and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA description will
  be described in the competitive announcement.
66.112 SURVEYS, STUDIES, INVESTIGATIONS, TRAINING,
DEMONSTRATIONS, AND SPECIAL PURPOSE GRANTS
FOR REGIONAL GEOGRAPHIC INITIATIVES
   (Region 8 Regional Priorities Grant Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  REGION 8, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
  Act, Section 20; Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Act, Section 8001;
  Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic Substances Control Act, Section
  10; Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203;
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act,
  Section 311; National Environmental Policy Act, Section 102(2)(F) for
  international awards.
OBJECTIVES:
  Regional Geographic Initiatives (RGI) is a unique funding source that supports
  Regional strategic priorities and environmental risks that are not addressed
  wholly or in part by existing national environmental programs. Funding Priority
  - Fiscal Year 2008: To support (Region 8 states only) surveys, studies, training,
  demonstrations, and/or investigations, and special purpose assistance associated
  with air quality, acid deposition, drinking water, water quality, hazardous waste,
                                                                                   913
