  toxic substances, and pesticides; identify, develop, and demonstrate necessary        
  pollution control techniques; to prevent, reduce, and eliminate pollution; to         
  evaluate the economic and social consequences of alternative strategies and           
  mechanisms for use by those in economic, social, governmental, and                    
  environmental management positions; to support training demonstrations or             
  educational outreach that leads to effective outreach strategies to educate           
  key/targeted audiences associated with specific public health and environmental       
  risks; projects that addresses places, sectors, or innovative projects; and/or are    
  based on a regional, state, tribal or other strategic plan; and/or address multi-     
  media environmental issues; and/or demonstrate state, local or other stakeholder      
  participation; and/or identify opportunities for leveraging other sources of          
  funding. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: To support (Region 8 states only)       
  surveys, studies, training, demonstrations, and/or investigations, and special        
  purpose assistance associated with air quality, acid deposition, drinking water,      
  water quality, hazardous waste, toxic substances, and pesticides; identify,           
  develop, and demonstrate necessary pollution control techniques; to prevent,          
  reduce, and eliminate pollution; to evaluate the economic and social                  
  consequences of alternative strategies and mechanisms for use by those in             
  economic, social, governmental, and environmental management positions; to            
  support training demonstrations or educational outreach that leads to effective       
  outreach strategies to educate key/targeted audiences associated with specific        
  public health and environmental risks; projects that addresses places, sectors, or    
  innovative projects; and/or are based on a regional, state, tribal or other strategic 
  plan; and/or address multi-media environmental issues; and/or demonstrate             
  state, local or other stakeholder participation; and/or identify opportunities for    
  leveraging other sources of funding.                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable      
  direct costs incident to approved surveys, studies, investigations and special        
  purpose assistance, plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established     
  EPA policies and regulations. Funding awarded for research does not include           
  research within the purview of EPA's Office of Research and Development.              
  Funds awarded under Section 311(b)(3) of CERCLA must be used for projects             
  relating to innovative or alternative treatment technologies that may be utilized     
  in response actions to achieve more permanent protection of human health and          
  welfare and the environment. Only submissions for project to be performed             
  within the States, Tribes, and/or Territories of Region 8 will be considered.         
  Projects that are national in scope are not eligible for funding under this CFDA.     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Assistance under this program is generally available to State agencies, territories,  
  the District of Columbia, Indian Tribes, and possessions of the US. Assistance is     
  also available to public and private universities and colleges, hospitals,            
  laboratories, and other public or private non profit institutions. Nonprofit          
  organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of other Internal Revenue Code that      
  engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure      
  Act of 1995 are not eligible to apply. For profit organizations are generally not     
  eligible for funding. See "Authorization" listed above. For certain competitive       
  funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit               
  eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with   
  the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy. Applicants need not be          
  located within the boundaries of the EPA Region 8 office to be eligible to apply      
  for funding but must propose a project that affects the States, Tribes, and           
  Territories within Region 8.                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  State agencies and local governments, US territories and possessions, Indian          
  Tribes, universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, and other public and      
  private nonprofit institutions.                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Documentation of nonprofit status may be required. Applicants may be                  
  requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training,         
  experience in the field and necessary equipment to carry out projects. Applicants     
  may be requested to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive         
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify      
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be       
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional               
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see        
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.          
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should            
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or    
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in    
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.            
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required        
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA                
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for             
  application kits must be submitted through the appropriate EPA Regional Office        


914                                                                               11-08

  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Additional information on the EPA grant
  package can be found at: http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. For
  competitive awards, the competitive funding announcement will specify
  application procedures. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements. For non-
  competitive awards, EPA will conduct an administrative evaluation to determine
  the adequacy of the application in relation to grant regulations and policies, and
  to a technical and program evaluation to determine the merit and relevance of
  the project. The Agency will then advise the applicant if funding is being
  considered. A final work plan will then be negotiated with the applicant.
Deadlines:
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in the competitive
  announcement.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and
  will compete for available funds. EPA can incrementally fund grants and
  cooperative agreements for investigations, experiments, training,
  demonstrations, surveys, studies and special purpose assistance. Approval of
  subsequent funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress,
  continued relevance of the project to EPA's priorities, and availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants and cooperative agreement are normally funded on a 12-month basis
  (annual) and will be paid electronically utilizing automated funds transfer. The
  total approved project period may not exceed 5 years for competitive awards.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in EPA's grant regulations
  Part 30 and 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofits and institutions
  of higher education) or 40 CFR Part 31(governmental units) are applicable
  depending upon the identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep financial
  records, including all documents supporting entries on accounting records which
  support substantial changes to the grant, available to personnel authorized to
  examine EPA recipients' grants and cooperative agreement records. Recipient
  must maintain all records for a period of three (3) years from the date of
  submission of final expenditures reports. If questions, such as those raised as a
  result of audits remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain records
  until the matter is fully resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $376,740; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est $376,740.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range of award $25,000 to $100,000/fiscal year. Average award in fiscal year
  2007 - $60,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007 this program awarded 6 grants. Awards ranged from $25,00
  to $107,000. To date, accomplishments include: Garfield County - Amt:
