  $107,000 Garfield County met with EPA to tour some of the areas in Garfield       
  County where oil and gas development is occurring. Garfield County began a        
  literature search and review of existing data on emissions associated with oil and
  gas development activities. They developed a QAPP which includes the              
  methodology for identifying monitor locations, number and types of stations and   
  what they will be monitoring. Garfield County Environmental Health created        
  and launched a new website to serve as a means to report project data to the      
  general public. They have received interest from 2 additional oil and operators,  
  to participate in the project. All of the sampling equipment has been received    
  which is needed to perform the air monitoring portion of the project. They are    
  working with the oil and gas operators to begin a sampling schedule and           
  anticipate completion of this in the summer. Groundwork is being laid with the    
  Special Projects Coordinator, project collaborators and industry to determine the 
  best approach to presenting their findings, making recommendations and            
  creating the Citizens Guide to Air Quality. Lake Helena Watershed Riparian Ag     
  Project - $48,583. Preliminary monitoring has occurred, landowner outreach        
  efforts have been initiated, scoping for the constructed wetland technology was   
  completed, constructed wetland installed, effectiveness monitoring has been       
  initiated, and other BMP installation has begun. Anticipated results of this      
  project include: the implementation of reasonable land, soil, and water-          
  conservation practices or BMPs on agricultural land that will incrementally       
  improve riparian and in-stream physical, chemical, and biological health within   
  the watershed. Physical measurements of implemented project BMPs will be          
  reported and estimates of pollutant loading reductions will be calculated. Muddy  
  Creek - $83,950 - One mile riparian fencing installed on tributary to Muddy       
  Creek. Scheduled to install fencing along three more miles of Muddy Creek this    
  fall. Bank work to reduce erosion along two miles of Muddy Creek. Scheduled       
  to place more barbs later this summer as soon as flows go down. Roll of matting   
  laid on 100 feet of sloped bank. Matting will be placed in conjunction with this  
  summer stream work when flows go down.GID has acquired bids for pumps and         
  is working on finalizing electrical hookup for pumps. Electric company will       
  install line to pump site later this summer and pipe and pumps will be installed  
  this fall.USGS and MSU continues to monitor flows and water quality on            
  Muddy Creek and Sun River. One USGS gauge was discontinued on Muddy               
  Creek due to need to monitor more flows on tributaries so additional gauges       
  were installed by MSU. Continue monitoring this fall by USGS and MSU.             
  Report will be compiled this winter from data acquired this summer.SRWG           
  continues to monitor project progress and report monthly to partners. Continue    
  with monthly updates to partners.                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, studies and       
  special purpose grants and cooperative agreements are subject to EPA's General    
  grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part 31.)                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with EPA, Region 8             
  located at 1595 Wynkoop Street, Denver, CO 80202, Cynthia Gonzales,               
  Telephone: (303) 312-6569, Fax: (303) 312-6339, and E-mail:                       
  gonzales.cynthia@epa.gov.                                                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.epa.gov/regional/rgi.htm.                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Please NOTE: The focus of the funds available inder this CFDA change from         
  funding year to funding year. Applicants are encouraged to review the Region 8    
  solicitation to determine the focus for the current fiscal year. Examples of      
  project funded under this CFDA: Get into the Zone, Clean Air Zone Montana -       
  outreach and education to promote the program,with program partners, toolkits     
  purchased, program staff developed webpage; Big Hole Watershed Feedlot            
  Restoration - designed and installed feedlot BMPs, Schindler feedlot restoration  
  project completed - removal and abandonment of a streamside feedlot on the        
  mainstem Big Hole River and construction of a new, state-of-the-art winter        
  livestock feeding facility on higher ground; Improving Capacity for Montana       
  Watershed Efforts - completion of the Watershed Symposium, Dec, 2006 and          
  completed watershed coordinators annual meeting/training, Sept. 2007;             
  Campaign to Reduce Exposure to Environmental Tobacco Smoke: Don't Smoke           
  with Kids in the Car - information has been distributed to the public via radio,  
  television and print media; Sun River Watershed Water Quality Restoration Plan    
  Implementation - Sediment loads will be reduced by 2,500 tons; 100 rock barbs     
  on highly erosive banks will reduce sediments loads annually by over 15,00 tons   
  to Muddy Creek and Sun River; end result will be another 4-miles of steam         
  meeting all Water Quality Restoration Plan conditions.                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  None.                                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
66.113 REGION 3 ENVIRONMENTAL PRIORITY

                                                                                    
PROJECTS                                                                            


                                                                               11-08
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  REGION 3, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
  Act, Section 20; Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section
  8001; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic Substances Control Act,
  Section 10.
OBJECTIVES:
  Assistance agreements awarded under this program must support, surveys,
  studies, investigations, training, demonstrations and special purpose assistance
  associated with air quality, acid deposition, drinking water, water quality,
  hazardous waste, toxic substances, or pesticides: (a) to identify, develop, and
  demonstrate necessary pollution control techniques; (b) to prevent, reduce, and
  eliminate pollution; (c) to evaluate the economic and social consequences of
  alternative strategies and mechanisms for use by those in economic, social,
  governmental, and environmental management positions; and (d) to promote
  collaboration on projects and activities within the states and enable wider and
  more coordinated state input on national environmental issues. Awards under
  this program must be performed within the Region III area of Delaware,
  Maryland, Pennsylvania, Virginia, West Virginia and/or District of Columbia.
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008. Funding will be used to support projects
  that address places, sectors, or innovative projects; and/or are based on
  Regional, state, tribal or other strategic plan; and/or addresses stakeholder
  participation; and/or identify opportunities for leveraging other sources of
  funding.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance awards in the form of grants and cooperative agreements are
  available to support recipients' allowable direct costs incident to approved
  surveys, studies, investigations, training, demonstrations and special purpose
  assistance, plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA
  policies and regulations. Funding awarded for research does not include research
  within the purview of EPA's Office of Research and Development. Assistance
  agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial
  information. Further information regarding geospatial information may be
  obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is generally available to state and local
  governments and the District of Columbia. Assistance is also available to public
  and private universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, and other public or
  private nonprofit institutions (Non-profit organizations described in Section
  501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying activities as
  defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not eligible to
  apply.) For profit organizations are generally not eligible for funding. Some of
  EPA's statutes may limit assistance to specific types of interested applicants. See
  "Authorization" listed above. For certain competitive funding opportunities
  under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a
  number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance
  Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments, public and private universities and colleges,
  hospitals, laboratories, and other public or private nonprofit institutions within
  Region III's geographical area.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation of nonprofit status may be required. Applicants may be
  requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training,
  experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects. Region III
  representatives may ask applicants or principal investigators to provide
  curriculum vitae and relevant publications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  EPA, Region 3 awards grants and cooperative agreements supporting surveys,
  studies, investigations, training, demonstrations and special purpose assistance
  under this program description in response to an EPA competitive solicitation.
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA
  Region 3 requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424,
  "Application for Federal Assistance." Requests for application kits must be
  submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency, Region 3, 1650 Arch
                                                                                   915
