  Streets, Philadelphia, PA 19103, Grants and Audit Management Branch                
  (3PM70) Additional information on the EPA assistance package can be found          
  at: http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. Applicants may be able to      
  use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities  
  under this CFDA. For competitive awards the funding announcement will              
  specify application procedures.                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in the competitive funding     
  announcement.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 180 days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new       
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and   
  will compete for available funds. EPA can incrementally fund grants and            
  cooperative agreements for surveys, studies, and investigations, training,         
  demonstrations and special purpose assistance. The approval of subsequent          
  funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress, continued        
  relevance of the project to Region 3 priorities, and the availability of funds.    
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Grants and cooperative agreements are normally funded on a 12-month basis.         
  However, EPA Region III can negotiate the project period with each applicant       
  based on project requirements. The total approved project period may not exceed    
  2 years for competitive awards. Grants and cooperative agreements will be paid

  utilizing automated funds transfer. Grants and cooperative agreements may be       
                                                                                     
  partially or fully funded. This determination is made by the EPA.

                                                                                     
Reports:

                                                                                     
  In addition to the general reporting requirements under 40 CFR, EPA includes

                                                                                     
  specific reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in the

                                                                                     
  terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,

                                                                                     
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention

                                                                                     
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in EPA's grant regulations 40

                                                                                     
  CFR Parts 30 and 31.

                                                                                     
Audits:

                                                                                     
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the

                                                                                     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,

                                                                                     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.

                                                                                     
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each

                                                                                     
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,

                                                                                     
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit                
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in      
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofits and institutions

                                                                                     
  of higher education) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable

                                                                                     
  depending upon the identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep financial

                                                                                     
  records, including all documents supporting entries on accounting records which

                                                                                     
  support substantial changes to the grant, available to personnel authorized to

                                                                                     
  examine EPA recipients' grants and cooperative agreement records. Recipient        
  must maintain all records for a period of three (3) years from the date of         
  submission of final expenditures reports. If questions, such as those raised as a  
  result of audits or litigation remain following the 3-year period, recipients must 
  retain records until the matter is fully resolved.                                 
Account Identification:                                                              
  68-0108-0-1-304.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  FY 07 $411,625; FY 08 est $250,000; and FY 09 est not available.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  Range - $25,000 to $150,000 per grant. Average of Financial Assistance is          
  $100,000 per grant.                                                                
                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  In FY 2008 Region 3 had at least eight awards ranging from $10,000 to              
  $125,000 each. It is anticipated that FY 2009 funding will be used to support      


916                                                                            11-08

  Region 3 strategic initiatives.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to EPA general grant regulations
  (40 CFR Parts 30, "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher
  Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations," and 40 CFR Part 31,
  "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements
  to State and Local Governments"). Costs will be determined in accordance with
  OMB Circular A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB
  Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A-122 for
  nonprofit institutions, and FAR Part 31 for "for profit" entities.
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA, Region 3 located at 1650 Arch Street, Philadelphia, PA 19103, Barbara L.
  Latsios, telephone 215-814-5384, FAX (215) 814-5261, email:
  Latsios.barbara@epa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Not applicable.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/region03/grants/index.htm
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In the past, Region III funded grants to eligible recipients to educate migrant
  farm workers on indoor air quality and asthma and ways to minimize indoor air
  pollutants, address childhood lead poisoning in urban areas and prevention
  techniques, restore and maintain water quality in Region 3 streams and
  waterbodies, develop an inventory of abandoned mines in Region 3 states in
  order to prioritize remediation activities and preserve land and drinking water by
  acquiring easements in riparian areas.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.
66.115 SURVEYS, STUDIES, INVESTIGATIONS, TRAINING,
DEMONSTRATIONS, AND SPECIAL PURPOSE GRANTS
FOR EPA REGION 10 REGIONAL GEOGRAPHIC
INITIATIVE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  REGION 10, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
  Act, Section 20; Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section
  8001; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic Substances Control Act,
  Section 10.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys,
  studies, research and special purpose assistance to protect public health and
  prevent, reduce, and eliminate pollution in Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, and/or
  Washington. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: This program is not being
  funded in 2008.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable
  direct costs incident to approved investigations, experiments, training,
  demonstrations, surveys, studies, research and special purpose assistance plus
  allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and
  regulations. Funding awarded for research does not include research within the
  purview of EPA's Office of Research and Development. Assistance agreement
  awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. The
  Regional Office will accept submissions only for projects to be performed in
  States, Tribal Lands, and Territories within Alaska, Idaho, Oregon and/or
  Washington. Projects that are national in scope are not eligible for funding under
  this CFDA.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Subject to any restrictions in the authorizing statutes, assistance under this
  program is generally available to States, territories, Indian Tribes, and
  possessions of the U.S., including the District of Columbia; public and private
  universities and colleges; hospitals; laboratories; local governments; and other
  public or private nonprofit institutions. For certain competitive funding
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy. Nonprofit organizations
  must be able to demonstrate that they are eligible through documentation of
  nonprofit status provided the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or their state of
  incorporation. However, nonprofit organizations described in Section 501(c)(4)
  of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying activities as defined in
  Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
