  State and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, Indian Tribes,      
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public and private       
  nonprofit institutions, and individuals.                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for                 
  educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions, and   
  FAR Part 31 for profit makers. Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they     
  have appropriate background, academic training, experience in the field, and       
  necessary equipment to carry out projects. EPA may ask applicants or principal     
  investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications. Nonprofit     
  organizations must be able to demonstrate that they are eligible through           
  documentation of nonprofit status provided the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or    
  their state of incorporation.                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  EPA awards grants and cooperative agreements supporting investigations,            
  experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, studies, research and special      
  purpose projects, considering relevance and likelihood of success of proposed      
  projects and other appropriate criteria. This program is eligible for coverage     
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An               
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of  
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires 
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program   
  for review. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circulars No. A-      
  102 and No. A-110. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with          
  respect to competitive funding opportunities under this program description,       
  EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal          
  assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive        
  announcement. For additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as      
  "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog.                          
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required     
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA             
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Application kits      
  should be requested from and submitted to the Environmental Protection             
  Agency, Grants Administration Office, 1200 6th Avenue, Suite 900, Seattle, WA      
  98101. Detailed information and assistance, including an application kit,          
  required forms, and a check list, are available at:                                
  http://www.epa.gov/region07/economics/index.htm. For competitive awards, the       
  competitive funding announcement will specify application procedures.              
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for    
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in the competitive funding     
  announcement.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 180 days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new       
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and   
  will compete for available funds. EPA can incrementally fund grants and            
  cooperative agreements for investigations, experiments, training,                  
  demonstrations, surveys, studies, research and special purpose assistance.         
  Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project     
  progress, continued relevance of the project to EPA's priorities, and availability

  of funds.                                                                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants and cooperative agreements are normally funded on a 12-month basis          
  (annual) and will be paid electronically utilizing automated funds transfer. The   
  total approved project period may not exceed 5 years for competitive awards.       
Reports:                                                                             
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in       
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,      
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention       
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part  
  30 and Part 31.                                                                    


                                                                               11-08 
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting
  entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants, available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipients grants and cooperative
  agreements records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the
  date of submission of final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those raised
  as a result of audits remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain
  records until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  Estimated funds available will vary based on regional allocation. The funding
  level for FY 07 was $350,000; FY 08 was $0; and FY 09 will be determined in
  the EPA appropriations bill.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The range of awards for 2007 was $50,000 to $100,000 and the average was
  $87,500.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Regional Geographic Initiative (RGI) funding supports EPA Region 10's ability
  to protect human health and the environment. RGI projects have enabled
  recipients to identify environmental concerns at the local level that are best
  addressed using innovative, collaborative approaches that further both local and
  regional environmental objectives. In FY 07 4 awards were made out of 43
  applications received (9 percent).
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, studies, research,
  and special purpose grants and cooperative agreements are subject to EPA's
  General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part 31).
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the EPA Region 10
  located at 1200 6th Avenue, Suite 900, Seattle, WA 98101, Daniel Steinborn,
  Telephone: (206) 553-2728, Fax: (206) 553-6984, E-mail:
  Steinborn.daniel@epa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Not applicable.
Web Site Address:
  http://yosemite.epa.gov/R10/HOMEPAGE.NSF/webpage/Grants.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  These three projects (of 9 total) were funded in 2006:1- Neighborhood Air
  Pollution Assessment; 2- Implementation of Biological Weed Control in Western
  Washington; 3- Smart Growth in a High Growth, Small Community. These three
  projects (out of 4 total) were funded in 2007: 1- Reducing Alaska's Carbon
  Footprint through Utility-Scale Wind Energy Development, Business Energy
  Efficiency and Public Engagement; 2- Pacific Northwest Carbon Neutral
  Building Initiative; 3- Maximizing the Environmental and Energy Benefits from
  Washington State's Renewable Energy Tax Credit.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the announcement of the competitive funding
  opportunity. EPA selects proposed projects for funding based on factors such as
  relevancy to EPA's mission, technical merit, and the likelihood of success and
  other relevant factors.
66.116 REGIONAL GEOGRAPHIC
INITIATIVE/ENVIRONMENTAL PRIORITY PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  REGION VI, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
  Act, Section 20, Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Ace, Section
  8001; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic Substances Control Act,
  Section 10.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support investigations, surveys, studies, and special purpose assistance to
  protect public health and prevent, reduce, and eliminate pollution within the
                                                                                   917
