  Region VI area of Arkansas, Louisiana, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Texas.               
  Funding Prioroty - In Fiscal Year 2008 the RGI program did not receive any           
  funding. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009 include support surveys, studies        
  and investigations associated with air quality, acid deposition, drinking water,     
  water quality, hazardous waste, toxic substances, and pesticides: (1) to identify,   
  develop and demonstrate necessary pollution control techniques; (2) to prevent,      
  reduce and eliminate pollution; (3) to support environmental education; and (4)      
  to promote collaboration with states to reduce environmental hazards that may        
  affect health and the environment.                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Assistance awards in the form of grants and cooperative agreements are               
  available to support recipients' allowable direct costs incident to approved         
  surveys, studies, investigations, training, demonstrations and special purpose       
  assistance, plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA        
  policies and regulations. Funding awarded for research does not include research     
  within the purview of EPA's Office of Research and Development. Assistance           
  agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial              
  information. Further information regarding geospatial information may be             
  obtained by viewing the following website: httP://geodata.epa.gov. "Geospatial       
  Information" includes: Information that identifies the geographic location and       
  characteristics of natural or constructed features or boundaries on the Earth, or    
  applications, tools, and hardware associated with the generation, maintenance,       
  or distribution of such information. This information may be derived from,           
  among other things, GPS, remote sensing, mapping, charting, and surveying            
  technologies, or statistical data.                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States, territories, Indian  
  Tribes, and possessions of the United States. Assistance is also available to        
  public and private universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, and other     
  public or private nonprofit institutions. For certain competitive funding            
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to       
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the             
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy. Nonprofit organizations            
  described in Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in           
  lobbying activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of        
  1995 are not eligible to apply. For profit organizations are not eligible for        
  funding.                                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, Indian Tribes,        
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public and private         
  nonprofit institutions, and individuals.                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Documentation of nonprofit status may be required. Applicants may be                 
  requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training,        
  experience in the field and necessary equipment to carry out projects. Applicants    
  may be requested to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  EPA Region VI awards grants and cooperative agreements to support surveys,           
  studies, investigations, training, demonstrations and special purpose projects       
  under this program description. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal               
  assistance with respect to competitive funding opportunities under this program      
  description, EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-       
  proposal assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive 
  announcement. For additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as        
  "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is            
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal         
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the      
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the  
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected  
  the program for review.                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for      
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA. For competitive awards, the             
  competitive announcement will specify application procedures.                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,        
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated     
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance        
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                   
Deadlines:                                                                             
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in the competitive               
  announcement.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 180 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                               
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in                
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal        
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also         


918                                                                              11-08

  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and
  will compete for available funds. EPA can incrementally fund grants and
  cooperative agreements for surveys, studies, investigations, training,
  demonstrations and special purpose assistance. The approval of subsequent
  funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress, continued
  relevance of the project to Region VI priorities, and the availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are normally funded on a 12-month basis.
  The total approved project period may not exceed 2 years for competitive
  awards. Grants and cooperative agreements will be paid electronically utilizing
  automated funds transfer.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial and equipment reports.
  Reporting requirements are also identified in EPA's grant regulations 40 CFR
  Parts 30 and 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (non-profits and
  institutions of higher education) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are
  applicable depending upon the identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep
  financial records, including all documents supporting entries on accounting
  records which support substantial changes to the grant, available to personnel
  authorized to examine EPA recipients' grants and cooperative agreement records.
  Recipient must maintain all records for a period of three (3) years from the date
  of submission of final expenditures reports. If questions, such as those raised as
  a result of audits or litigation remain following the 3-year period, recipients must
  retain records until the matter is fully resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $557,000; FY 08 $0; and est FY 09 $300,000. Estimated funds available
  will vary based on regional allocation.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range of assistance: $10,000 to $75,000; average $50,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Region VI funded grants to eligible recipients for unique, geographically-based
  projects that support the Agency's ability to protect human health and the
  environment and further regional strategic initiatives. FY 2007 ($557,000)
  projects included: Development of On-line Toll for Redevelopers, Pesticide
  Risks E-filing,Joint Compliance Assistance Storm Water Training; Roads as
  Pollution Controls, Blue Skyways Collaborative, Alternative method for
  Asbestos Demolition, Beyond Translation, Environmental Health Education
  Outreach,and Dallas Urban Heat Island/Stormwater Mitigation. Due to the lack
  of funding for the RGI program in FY 2008, no projects will be funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to EPA general grant regulations
  (40 CFR Part 30, "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations" and 40 CFR Part 31, "Uniform
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State
  and Local Governments"). Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular
  No. A-21 for educational institutions; and OMB Circular No. A-122 for
  nonprofit institutions.
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with EPA, Region VI
  located at 1445 Ross Avenue, Suite 1200, Dallas, TX 75202-2733, Margie
  Floyd, Telephone: (214) 665-8461, Fax: (214) 665-7284, and E-mail:
  floyd.margie@epa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Not applicable.
