Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.epa.gov/docs/earth1r6///gandf/.                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Development of On-line Toll for Redevelopers, Pesticide Risks E-filing,Joint         
  Compliance Assistance Storm Water Training; Roads as Pollution Controls,             
  Blue Skyways Collaborative, Alternative method for Asbestos Demolition,              
  Beyond Translation, Environmental Health Education Outreach, and Dallas              
  Urban Heat Island/Stormwater Mitigation.                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA         
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                       
                                                                                       
66.117 REGION 9 MULTI-MEDIA AND GEOGRAPHIC                                             
                                                                                       
PRIORITY PROJECTS

                                                                                       
   (R9 RGI and EPP grants)                                                             
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  REGION 9, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Statutory authority includes but is not limited to: Clean Air Act, Section 103;      
  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Safe Drinking Water Act, Sections 1442; Solid          
  Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and                
  Rodenticide Act, Section 20; Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10;               
  Pollution Prevention Act, Section 6605; Resource Conservation and Recovery           
  Act, Section 8001; Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,               
  and Liability Act, Sections 104 and 311; Marine Protection, Research, and            
  Sanctuaries Act, Section 203; National Environmental Education Act, Section 6.       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To fund projects, including surveys, studies, investigations, demonstrations,        
  training, and outreach, that address more than one medium or vector of human         
  health or ecological risk and that seek to (1) prevent, reduce, and eliminate        
  pollution; (2) identify, develop, and demonstrate pollution control techniques       
  and technology; (3) evaluate the economic, social, and environmental effects of      
  alternative mechanisms and strategies; and (4) promote coordination and              
  collaboration between and among federal, State, and local governmental and           
  non-governmental organizations.Projects will address regional environmental          
  and geographic priorities, possibly including air basins and watersheds,             
  economic sectors such as agriculture, critical ecosystems, and sensitive             
  populations. Projects may demonstrate innovative methods and involve                 
  stakeholder collaboration, leveraged funding, or socially equitable and              
  ecologically sensitive land-use and transportation planning ("smart growth").        
  Projects funded under this program must be carried out within the area of EPA's      
  Region 9, comprised of the states and tribal lands of Arizona, California,           
  Hawaii, or Nevada, and of the Pacific islands associated with the United             
  States.Multi-media assistance agreements cite two or more environmental              
  statutes, appropriations legislation, or applicable legislative history as statutory 
  authority. Multi-media priorities for FY 2007 include agriculture in the Central     
  Valley, Pacific Island infrastructure, and information management support.           
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: The Regional Adminstrator and Deputy            
  Regional Administrator, with advice from the Senior Management Team,                 
  determine regional multi-media and geographic priorities. Multi-media priorities     
  for grant funding in FY 2008 include: climate change, environmental justice,         
  infrastructure and capacity-building for the Pacific islands, and agriculture        
  issues in the San Joaquin Valley of California.                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Assistance awards, in the form of grants and cooperative agreements, to fund         
  recepients' allowable directs costs plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance     
  with established EPA policies and regulations, may be available for projects that    
  use a whole-systems approach to address multi-media human health and                 
  ecological risks. Project activities may include surveys, studies, investigations,   
  demonstrations, training, education, limited research, outreach, and/or special-     
  purpose activities. However, the Region will not fund research within the            
  purview of EPA's Office of Research and Development. Assistance agreement            
  awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information and        
  computer information system applications, tools, and hardware used to generate,      
  maintain, or distribute such information. "Geospatial information" identifies the    
  geographic location and characteristics of natural or constructed features or        
  boundaries on the Earth, and may be derived from technologies such as                
  geographic positioning systems (GPS), remote sensing, mapping, charting, and         
  surveying, and from statistical data. Further information regarding geospatial       
  information is available from the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Funding is available only for projects conducted within the geographic               
  boundaries of EPA's Region 9, which includes states and tribal lands of Arizona,     
  California, Hawaii, Nevada, Navajo Nations land in New Mexico, and the               


                                                                                  11-08
  Pacific islands associated with the United States. Interstate, State, tribal,
  intrastate, and local government agencies, districts, and councils; and public and
  private universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, and research facilities;
  and public or private non-governmental, nonprofit institutions are eligible to
  apply, unless restricted by the authorizing statutes. Nonprofit organizations
  must have documentation of nonprofit status from the Internal Revenue Service
  or their state of incorporation, except that nonprofit organizations as defined in
  Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying as
  defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act 1995 or superseding
  legislation are ineligible. For certain competitive funding opportunities under
  this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number
  or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance
  Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Interstate, State, tribal, intrastate, and local government agencies, districts, and
  councils; public and private universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, and
  research facilities; and public or private non-governmental, nonprofit institutions
  are eligible to apply, unless restricted by the authorizing statutes.
Credentials/Documentation:
  EPA may require applicants and principle investigators to demonstrate
  appropriate background, academic training, experience in the field, and
  necessary equipment to carry out projects, and to provide curriculum vitae and
  relevant publications. EPA may require nonprofit organizations to provide
  documentation of nonprofit status accorded by the Internal Revenue Service or
  their state of incorporation.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Potential applicants should direct preapplication communications to the Office
  of the Regional Administrator (ORA-1), Region 9, Environmental Protection
  Agency. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to
  competitive funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will
  generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if
  any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For
  additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts"
  or see Appendix IV of the Catalog.This program is eligible for coverage under
  E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant
  should consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in
  his or her State for more information on the process the State requires to be
  followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for
  review.
Application Procedure:
  For competitive awards, the competitive funding announcement will provide
  specific application procedures. Prospective applicants must submit requests for
  application packages through the EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of
  the Catalog. This program requires applicants to use standard application forms
  furnished by the Agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110,
  including Standard Form 424 for final applications. Applicants may be able to
  use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  For competitive funding opportunities, the competitive funding announcement
  will specify application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days from receipt of final application, through selection and
  notification, and development and approval of work plan, to award of funds.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  EPA can fund grants and cooperative agreements for surveys, studies,
  investigations, demonstrations, training, education, limited research, outreach,
  and/or special-purpose activities incrementally. Approval of incremental funding
  depends on satisfactory project progress as well as continued relevance of the
  project and availability of funds. The application procedure is identical to
  applying for a new grant, with the same funds source, selection criteria, and
  review procedure.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula for funds distribution and no requirement
  for matching funds, unless specifically stated in a request for proposals.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance agreements generally fund projects for one or two years, with a
  maximum project period of five years. Funds are issued electronically through
                                                                                     919
