  automated funds transfer.                                                          
Reports:                                                                             
  EPA may include reporting requirements in the terms and conditions of the          
  assistance agreements, which may require quarterly, interim, and final             
  performance reports, and financial, equipment, and inventory reports.              
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each        
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit                
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in      
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Recipients must demonstrate financial management capability, keep financial        
  records including documentation for entries on accounting and for any changes      
  in grant requirements, and make records available to personnel authorized to       
  examine assistance recipients' records. Recipients must maintain all records for a 
  minimum of three years from the date of submission of the final report and until   
  all questions regarding the assistance agreement, such as those arising from       
  audits, are resolved.                                                              
Account Identification:                                                              
  68-0108-0-1-304.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $124,000; FY 08 $463,000; and FY 09 $200,000.                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Projects funded from Regional Geographic Initiative and Environmental Priority     
  Program funding have ranged from a low of $1,500 to a high of $160,000, with       
  an average of approximately $60,000 per project.                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In recent years, Regional Geographic Initiative and Environmental Priority         
  Program funding has primarily supported work on diesel emission reduction          
  under the West Coast Collaborative process and on dairy manure treatment           
  through the San Joaquin Valley Dairy Manure Collaborative. The West Coast          
  Collaborative has funded projects to address diesel emissions in eight sectors     
  including agriculture, fuels, freight movement, and fleet operations,              
  concentrating on the San Joaquin Valley and the major ports in Region 9. The       
  Dairy Manure Collaborative has produced and distributed information on             
  treatment technologies, funding opportunities, and geographic distribution of      
  dairy manure through publications, conferences and maps. Each EPA Region           
  has now replicated the West Coast Collaborative process, and entities associated   
  with the Dairy Manure Collaborative have constructed 200 pilot treatment plants    
  with $21 million from outside sources. In FY 2007 and FY 2008, 24                  
  applications resulted in 9 awards.                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Assistance agreements under this program are subject to EPA's General Grant        
  Regulations, 40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part 31.                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Lynn Kuo, Special Assistant,Office of the Regional Administrator, Region 9,        
  Environmental Protection Agency, 75 Hawthorne Street (ORA-1), San                  
  Francisco, CA 94105; Telephone: (415) 972-3501, Fax: (415) 947-3588, E-mail:       
  Kuo.Lynn@epa.gov.                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  None.                                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/region09/funding/ .                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  This CFDA number was established in FY 2007. Previously, grant funding for         
  this purpose was listed under CFDA number 66.606, Surveys, Studies,                
  Investigations, and Special Purpose Grants. Multi-media grants under 66.606        
  often addressed environmental affects of agriculture. The report, "USEPA           
  Regional Geographic Initiative: Agricultural Sustainability Projects in            
  California's San Joaquin Valley, 2001-2005,"                                       
  (http://www.epa.gov/docs/region09/ag/docs/ rgi-report-for-r9-ag-program-july-      
  2006.pdf) describes these projects. Regional priority funding has supported        
  conferences, world-wide web content development, and geographic information        
  systems work. Multi-media issues addressed including food safety, Pacific          
  island environmental issues, ocean issues, land use and transportation issues,     
  and more.                                                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA       
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                     
                                                                                     
66.119 WEST COAST ESTUARIES INITIATIVE                                               


920                                                                            11-08

FEDERAL AGENCY:
  Region 10, Environmental Protection Agency
AUTHORIZATION:
  Consolidated Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year 2008, Public Law 110-161
OBJECTIVES:
  The West Coast Estuaries Initiative is a focused effort that evolved from the
  Environmental Protection Agency's Targeted Watersheds Grants Program. The
  initiative is designed to promote and support the protection and restoration of
  high value coastal aquatic resources in geographic areas that are subject to the
  pressures of population and economic growth through comprehensive watershed
  protection and management practices at the local level. The projects receiving
  assistance will support the EPA's goals for Region 10's coastal watersheds from
  Alaska to Oregon's southern border. These goals include: (1) clean and safe
  water through the protection of water quality and (2) healthy communities and
  ecosystems through the restoration and protection of ecosystems. Funding
  Priority ¿ Fiscal Year 2009: EPA Region 10 recognizes the impact of growth and
  development on the health of the region's coastal watersheds and the diverse
  marine flora and fauna that they support. Extensive research shows that where
  development is located, how much development occurs and what practices are
  used when developing greatly affect the chemical, physical and biological
  integrity of marine and fresh waters. For Federal Fiscal Year 2009, the Region
  expects to offer assistance in watersheds west of the Cascade Mountain divide
  from the southern border of Oregon to the northern border of Washington,
  including those watersheds entering the Columbia River below Bonneville Dam.
  Additionally, in Alaska, the Region expects to offer assistance in three
  watersheds draining into the northern portion of Cook Inlet. These watersheds
  are the Lower Susitna, Matanuska and Anchorage Borough watersheds. Local
  and tribal governments are faced with implementing multiple planning processes
  and mandates. Watershed planning decisions regarding where protection and
  restoration occurs, how much protection and restoration is necessary, and what
  practices ensure effectiveness are frequently the focus of watershed plans. Often
  missing from these processes is an effort to connect watershed-based decisions
  with land development techniques and storm water controls. Linking protection
  and restoration decisions with future land use decisions can prevent pollution
  and greatly enhance the potential to maintain the region's coastal resources.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements)
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Local and tribal governments are at various stages of developing and applying
  effective and robust watershed programs. Some need to improve the scientific
  understanding of their watersheds. Others understand how their watersheds work
  and need assistance implementing a plan. Therefore, a wide range of activities
  will be eligible including, but not limited to, activities that:(1) Enhance and
  implement watershed protection and restoration plans, land use and
  transportation plans, basin plans, storm water controls and/or land development
  standards to maintain native vegetation and natural hydrology by protecting and
  restoring wetland, riparian, upland and near shore habitats and ecological
  processes. (2) Implement watershed protection by enhancing local planning
  processes under the state's Coastal Zone Management Program through the
  development of watershed land use designations, development standards and
  other regulations or incentive programs that protect and restore coastal
  watersheds. (3) Refine and implement watershed land use plans based on
  watershed models predicting hydrological impacts of alternative future land
  cover conditions, development scenarios and resulting aquatic resource
  conditions. (4) Develop and carry out laws, ordinances and incentive programs
  to implement watershed programs such as systematic implementation of low
  impact development in sensitive basins, land acquisition or transfer of
  development rights approaches and techniques. More details on the restrictions
  for this program will be provided in the request for proposals which will be
  published on the Region 10 web site. Assistance agreement awards under this
  program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information
  regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following
  website: http://geodata.epa.gov. Certain projects or activities are ineligible for
  West Coast Estuaries funding. These include activities required or regulated
  under the CWA. For example, activities for the development of Total Maximum
  Daily Loads (TMDLs) and required activities under Phase I and II Stormwater
  permits will not be funded. Activities implementing the non-regulatory
  component of TMDLs are eligible (e.g., the elements of a watershed plan that
  address non-point source pollution).
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally recognized Indian Tribal governments located within or governing
  territory within the coastal watersheds west of the Cascade Mountain divide of
  Washington and Oregon, including those watersheds entering the Columbia
  River below Bonneville Dam, are eligible to apply. Local governments located
  within or governing territory within the coastal watersheds west of the Cascade
  Mountain divide of Washington and Oregon, including those watersheds
  entering the Columbia River below Bonneville Dam, are also eligible to apply.
  Also eligible to apply are special purpose districts including, but not limited to,
  irrigation districts, conservation district and water & sewer districts located
  within the coastal watersheds west of the Cascade Mountain divide of
