  Washington and Oregon, including those watersheds entering the Columbia            
  River below Bonneville Dam. Similar entities in three specific coastal             
  watersheds in Alaska will also be eligible to apply. Those watersheds are the      
  Lower Susitna, Matanuska and Anchorage Borough watersheds. State agencies,         
  institutions of higher education and nongovernmental entities are not eligible to  
  receive a direct award under this announcement. However, they are encouraged       
  to work as collaborators (subrecipients or subcontractors) with eligible           
  applicants. Federal agencies are ineligible for subaward or subcontract work       
  under this announcement. For certain competitive funding opportunities under       
  this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number     
  or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance           
  Agreement Competition Policy.                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Anyone/General Public                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  In accordance with EPA's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy (EPA              
  Order 5700.5A1), EPA staff will not meet with individual applicants to discuss     
  draft proposals, provide informal comments on draft proposals, or provide          
  advice to applicants on how to respond to ranking criteria. Applicants are         
  responsible for the contents of their respective applications and proposals. The   
  EPA will respond to questions from individual applicants regarding threshold       
  eligibility criteria, administrative issues related to the submission of a proposal
  and requests for clarification about the request for proposals. This program is    
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal       
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the    
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.                                                            
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants will be required to submit a formal grant application. The standard     
  application forms as furnished by the EPA and required by OMB Circular s No.       
  A-110 and A-102 must be used for this program. EPA requires final applications     
  to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for application kits must be             
  submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency, Grants Administration            
  Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code 3903R, Washington,             
  DC 20460 or though the EPA Region 10 Grants Administration web site at:            
  http://yosemite.epa.gov/r10/omp.nsf/webpage/. Applicants may be able to use        
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities      
  under this CFDA.                                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements. EPA             
  reserves the right to reject all proposals or applications and make no awards      
  under any RFP issued under this program.                                           
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact the Region 10 office of the EPA for information on applications            
  deadlines.                                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The region expects that its review of the applications received will be completed  
  within 120 to 150 days following the deadline for the submission of                
  applications.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula requirement. Under the Targeted              
  Watershed Grants program, of which this initiative is a component, it is the       
  Agency's policy to require applicants to demonstrate a minimum non-federal         
  match of 25% of the total cost of the project or projects. Match may be cash or    
  in-kind consistent with the regulation governing match requirements (40 C.F.R.

  §31.24 or 40 C.F.R. §30.23, as applicable). Tribes may be exempt from this         
  match requirement if they are constrained to such an extent that fulfilling the

  match requirement would impose an undue economic hardship on the Tribe.            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  The term of the cooperative agreement will be determined at the time the           
  financial assistance is awarded.                                                   
Reports:                                                                             
  Progress report requirements will be a part of each assistance agreement. A        
  schedule showing interim milestones and the outputs that will be completed by      
  the end of the project period will also be included. Other specific reporting      


                                                                                11-08
  requirements will be defined in the Assistance Agreement based on the
  statement of work described in the application.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained until expiration of three years from the date of submission of the
  final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as those raised by an
  audit, related records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 2007 obligations: $2,500. The total expected awards (obligations) of Federal
  Fiscal Year 2008 funds is expected to be about $2.8 million. These obligations
  would be made in Federal Fiscal Year 2009.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Individual awards are expected to range in size from $400,000 to $600,000. If
  the EPA receives proposals for seven (7) approvable projects, the mean award
  size would be $400,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The first awards within the Puget Sound Estuary for the Targeted Watershed
  Grants program were made in Federal Fiscal Year 2008. No progress reports
  from these assisted projects were available, yet, at the time that this CFDA
  listing was being written.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  For grants and cooperative agreements with local governments, tribal
  governments and special purpose districts, the procedures and requirements
  should be in conformance with 40 C.F.R. Part 31 "Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local
  Governments", 40 C.F.R. Part 35 "Environmental Program Grants-State,
  Interstate and Local Government Agencies", and OMB Circular Nos. A-87 "Cost
  Principles for State and Local Governments" and A-102 "Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements for States and Local Governments."
Regional or Local Office:
  Daniel Steinborn, Puget Sound Estuary Program Financial Assistance Manager
  Ecosystems and Community Health Unit U.S. Environmental Protection
  Agency, Region 10 1200 Sixth Avenue, Suite 900, ETPA-086 Seattle, WA
  98101 (206) 553-2728 1-800 424-4EPA, extension 3-2728 e-mail:
  steinborn.daniel@epa.gov
Headquarters Office:
  Not applicable.
Web Site Address:
  http://yosemite.epa.gov/r10/water.nsf/Office+of+Water/WEI08RFP
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  CFDA 66.439 - Targeted Watersheds Grants Program
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be published in the announcement of the competitive funding
  opportunity (the Request for Proposals or RFP). Projects will be selected based
  on a competitive process which may include factors such as relevancy to the
  EPA's mission, technical merit, the geographic diversity represented by the array
  of possible projects and the likelihood of success. In making the final funding
  decisions, the Approving Official may also consider national and regional
  programmatic priorities, the Region 10 strategy and the balance of funds
  available. The actual selection criteria to be used will be identified in the RFP.
66.202 CONGRESSIONALLY MANDATED PROJECTS
   (CONGRESSIONAL EARMARKS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Annual Department of the Interior, Environment, and related Agencies
  Appropriations Act; Clean Air Act; Clean Water Act; Safe Drinking Water Act;
  Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act; Toxic Substances Control
                                                                                  921
