  Act; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act; Pollution Prevention     
  Act of 1990; Solid Waste Disposal Act - Resource Conservation and Recovery         
  Act; Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act;         
  Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act; Emergency Planning and               
  Right to Know Act; Oil Pollution Act; National Environmental Policy Act;           
  Indian Environmental General Assistance Program Act; and National                  
  Environmental Education Act. NEPA Section 102(2)(F) for all existing and new       
  grants done internationally.                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To implement Congressionally directed projects or programs for special             
  purposes identified in EPA's annual appropriations act or Conference Report.       
  These assistance agreements support surveys, studies and investigations;           
  research and demonstrations; and special projects which are not requested by       
  EPA in their annual budget to Congress. They are sometimes identified for          
  specifically designated organizations. The projects may be associated with: (1)    
  various environmental requirements (e.g. wastewater treatment, drinking water      
  treatment); (2) identifying, developing, and/or demonstrating necessary pollution  
  control technologies and techniques to prevent, reduce, and eliminate pollution;   
  and/or (3) evaluating the economic and social consequences of alternative          
  strategies, technologies, or mechanisms for use by those in economic, social,      
  governmental, and environmental management positions. Funding priorities are       
  to award these assistance agreements to the designated organizations as quickly    
  as possible within statutory and regulatory requirements.                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support specific purposes or    
  perform specific actions by Congressionally designated recipients. Allowable       
  direct and indirect costs are included, in accordance with establishedAssistance   
  agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial            
  information. "Geospatial Information" includes: Information that identifies the    
  geographic location and characteristics of natural or constructed features or      
  boundaries on the Earth, or applications, tools, and hardware associated with the  
  generation, maintenance, or distribution of such information. This information     
  may be derived from, among other things, GPS, remote sensing, mapping,             
  charting, and surveying technologies, or statistical data. EPA policies and        
  regulations. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or         
  relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial         
  information may be obtained by viewing the following website:                      
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Examples of recipients that may receive assistance under this program include      
  interstate, intrastate, state, local, public nonprofit institutions/organizations, 
  other public institutions/organizations, international organizations, Federally    
  Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, U.S. territories or possessions, private     
  nonprofit institutions/organizations, quasi-public nonprofit                       
  institutions/organizations, Native American Organizations, and public/private      
  institutions of higher education. For certain competitive funding opportunities    
  under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a      
  number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance    
  Agreement Competition Policy.                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Interstate, intrastate, state, local, public nonprofit institutions/organizations, 
  other public institutions/organizations, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal        
  Governments, U.S. territories or possessions, private nonprofit                    
  institutions/organizations, quasi-public nonprofit institutions/organizations,     
  Native American Organizations, and public/private institutions of higher           
  education.                                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for state        
  and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for                 
  educational institutions, and OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions.   
  Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background,       
  academic training, experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out   
  specific Congressionally designated projects. EPA may ask applicants or            
  principle investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive      
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify   
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be    
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional            
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.This program is eligible for coverage under             
  E.O.12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant            
  should consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in 
  his or her State for more information on the process the State requires to be      
  followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for     
  review.                                                                            
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for    


922                                                                            11-08

  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  Although this program is generally not subject to EPA's Policy on Competition
  for Assistance Agreements, EPA will administratively evaluate each application
  to determine (a) the adequacy of the proposed project to meet the specified
  purpose of the Congressionally mandated project and (b) if EPA has existing
  authority to expend appropriated funds for the mandated project. EPA's program
  offices will evaluate applications and applicants to determine the merit and
  relevance of proposed projects. EPA's R&D Office conducts a peer review of all
  applications by outside experts. EPA will also review the application in relation
  to EPA's general grant regulations. Any competed projects are subject to EPA's
  policy on Competition for Assistance Agreements. For competitive awards, EPA
  will review and evaluate applications, proposals, and/or submissions in
  accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive
  announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA
  policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Contact the headquarters (or regional office, as appropriate) for application
  deadlines. Application forms must be submitted according to dates established
  by the individual EPA Headquarters or Regional Office.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new
  application which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original
  application. EPA may incrementally fund grants and cooperative agreements.
  Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project
  progress and availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Recipients must match Federal funds as required by EPA's appropriation acts,
  authorizing statutes, regulations, program guidance, or as negotiated and agreed
  to between the applicant and the program office. This program has no statutory
  formula for distribution, however, matching requirements are defined in each
  appropriations act.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The terms of the assistance shall be determined at time of award. The length and
  time phasing of the assistance will be determined by the duration of the
  availability of appropriated funds.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require annual,
  quarterly, and/or interim and final progress reports, final results,
  expenditure/financial, equipment, and invention reports. Reporting requirements
  are also identified in the Grant Regulations - 40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part
  31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting
  entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipients grants and cooperative
  agreements records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the
  date of submission of final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those raised
  as a result of audits, remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain
  records until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304; 68-0107-0-1-304; 68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $202,246,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range: $79,000 to $18,704,000 per project; Average: $665,283.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  EPA has many Congressionally designated mandated projects and programs
