  appropriated each year. To award assistance agreements for these specially        
  Congressionally designated projects and programs, EPA works with the              
  designated organizations to help them develop and submit grant applications to    
  EPA. EPA then reviews each grant application to ensure the work proposed is a     
  authorized activity for EPA and comports with the guidance provided by            
  Congress. Then EPA assures that the organization meets EPA's grant and            
  financial management requirements to administer the grant. Examples of the 304    
  specially designated Congressional projects and programs in FY 2008 include       
  funding to the San Joaquin CA Valley Air Pollution Control District to complete   
  their Central California Ozone Study, funding to the Puget Sound 2020 Action      
  Committee for development of their future environmental agenda; funding to        
  Metro North Georgia Water Planning District for their drinking water and          
  wastewater improvement project; funding to the City of Baltimore for              
  improvements to their sanitary and combined sewer systems; and funding to         
  Brockton, MA for improvements to their wastewater treatment system.               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Congressional mandated earmarks are subject to EPA's General Grant                
  Regulations -40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part 31.                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate           
  Headquarters program contact listed below.                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  For program information, contact the following designated Program Office          
  offical: Office of Air and Radiation - Katherine Moore, (202) 564-1514,           
  Katherine Moore@epa.gov; Office of Water - Kimberley Roy, (202) 564-4633;         
  Kimberley Roy-Davis@epa.gov; Office of Wastewater Management - Barry              
  Benroth, (202) 564-0672; Barry Benroth@epa.gov; Office of Ground Water and        
  Drinking Water - Deborah McCray, (202) 564-3843 ; Deborah                         
  Mccray@epa.gov; Office of Prevention, Pesticides and Toxic Substances -           
  Elaine Lyon-Johnson,(202) 564-0547; Elaine Lyon-Johnson@epa.gov; Office of        
  Solid Waste and Emergency Response - Elisia Kanipe, (202) 566-1893; Elisia        
  Kanipe@epa.gov; Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance - Joseph           
  Hall, (202) 564-2271; Joseph Hall@epa.gov; Office of Research and                 
  Development - Mark Thomas, (202) 564-4763; Mark Thomas or Alice Sabatini,         
  (202) 564-1023; Alice Sabatini@epa.gov; Office of Environmental Information       
  - Chad Littleton, (202) 564-6064; Chad Littleton@epa.gov; Office of               
  International Affairs - Teresa Ruppe, (202) 564-6619; Teresa Ruppe@epa.gov;       
  Office of the Administrator - Frank Rusincovitch, (202) 564-0418; Frank           
  Rusincovitch@epa.gov and; Office of the Inspector General - Ed Maddox, (202)      
  564-2648; E-mail: Ed Maddox@epa.gov; may be reached by mail at the                
  following common address and fax number: EPA Headquarters 1200                    
  Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460, (202) 564-1838 (Fax)             
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.epa.gov/ocfo/budget/index.htm.                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Congressionally mandated projects/programs vary, for example below are listed     
  a small sample of such projects/programs. Waste to Energy project in Stamford,    
  Connecticut; Bacteria detection program in Mohawk Valley, New York Water          
  Authority; Restoration of Lake Pontchartrain Basin by the Lake Pontchartrain      
  Foundation; Poultry science project at Stephen F. Austin State University; Water  
  treatment facility in the City of Alamosa, Colorado; Perchlorate treatment        
  program in the City of Pasadena, California; Drinking water and wastewater        
  facilities planning and construction projects, U.S. - Mexico Border Program.      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Addresses the specific purpose designated by the Congressional earmark in         
  EPA's annual Appropriations Act or annual Appropriation Committee Report          
  and other relevant legislative history and is consistent with EPA's authorities to
  support or conduct the Congressionally specified action. The evaluation and       
  selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA description will be     
  described in the competitive announcement. All Congressionally mandated           
  earmarks must meet the following criteria: (a) address the specified              
  Congressionally directed support or action described in the annual                
  Appropriations Act or Appropriations Conference Report; (b) have the work         
  statement for the proposed assistance agreement clearly relate to current         
  statutory authorities and the strategic priorities for the Agency; and (c) have an
  approved workplan and processed assistance agreement before the appropriated      
  funds expire.                                                                     
                                                                                    
66.203 ENVIRONMENTAL FINANCE CENTER GRANTS                                          
                                                                                    
   (EFC Grant Program)                                                              
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, ENVIRONMENTAL                              
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Clean Water Act, Section 104,(b)(3), as amended; Safe Drinking Water Act,         
  Section 1442(b)(3) and Section 1420(g), as amended; Solid Waste Disposal Act,     


                                                                               11-08
  Section 8001(a); Clean Air Act, Section 103(b)(3); Toxics Substances Control
  Act, Section 10, as amended; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
  Act, Section 20, as amended; Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act,
  Section 203.
OBJECTIVES:
  The Environmental Finance Center Grant Program provides funding to support
  Environmental Finance Centers (EFCs) that provide multi-media environmental
  finance expertise and outreach to the regulated communities. The EFCs work
  with States, local governments and the private sector to address the growing
  costs of environmental protection. The EFCs provide finance-related training,
  education, and analytical studies to help these regulated parties develop
  solutions to the difficult "how-to-pay" issues associated with meeting
  environmental standards. The EFCs educate state and local governments and
  businesses on lowering environmental costs, increasing environmental
  investments, improving financial capacity, encouraging full cost pricing, and
  identifying and evaluating environmental financing options. A central goal of
  the EFCs is to create sustainable systems. Sustainable systems have the
  financial, technical, and institutional resources and capabilities to operate in
  compliance with environmental requirements and in conformance with accepted
  environmental practices over thelong term. EFCs focus on helping these smaller
  parties find ways to obtain financing for their environmental protection
  responsibilities. Funding Priority ¿ Fiscal Year 2008: providing education,
  technical assistance, and analytic support to state and local officials to: (1) build
  capacity of state and local governments to develop and support sustainable water
  systems; (2) provide computer-based financial outreach tools to communities
  (particularly small ones) to help them more effectively manage watersheds and
  water systems; (3) support cleaner/greener businesses through source reduction,
  pollution prevention, and energy conservation; (4) promote environmentally
  sustainable redevelopment efforts by state and local governments; and (5) assist
  state and local government in integrating environmental protection in growth
  management and land use planning.          Funding Priority ¿ Fiscal Year 2009:
  providing education, technical assistance, and analytic support to state and local
  officials and businesses on: (1) environmentally sustainable growth management
  and land use planning; (2) financing wetlands programs and protection; (3)
  water and wastewater utility sustainability, energy efficiency and capital
  planning; (4) financing source reduction, pollution prevention and energy
  conservation, and encouraging green business products and services; and (5)
  promoting innovative air pollution reduction financing efforts.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to recipients to support their
  allowable direct costs incident to approved environmental financial technical
  assistance and outreach work plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with
  established EPA policies and regulations. EPA provides incremental funding for
  these grants or cooperative agreements on an annual basis. As part of EPA's
  substantial involvement, the appropriate EPA regional and/or headquarters
  office reviews and approves each annual project phase consistent with the scope
  of work for the grant or cooperative agreement. As provided in 2 CFR Part 220,
  recipients of grants or cooperative agreements under this program may not
  charge fundraising costs to their grants or cooperative agreements. Funding for
  research under this program does not include research within the purview of
  EPA's Office or Research and Development. Under this program, EPA does not
  fund research, training, and technical assistance to facilitate the inventory of
  brownfields sites, site assessments, remediation of brownfields sites, community
  involvement, and site preparation. These activities are covered by the EPA grant
  program established at CFDA 66.814.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is available to public and private non-profit
  universities and colleges and to nonprofit organizations. For certain competitive
  funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit
  eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with
  the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, tribes, local governments, businesses and community organizations and
  the general public are the beneficiaries of this program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must demonstrate that they meet eligibility requirements. In addition,
  EPA may request applicants to demonstrate that they have the appropriate
  background, academic training, experience in the field, and necessary staff and
  equipment to carry out the project work. The Agency may also ask principal
  analysts named in applicants' proposals to provide curriculum vitae and other
  documentation of relevant experience.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
                                                                                     923
