  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. If the  
  applicant does not know who their Single Point of Contact is, the applicant may    
  call the appropriate EPA regional contact listed in the Information Contacts       
  section, or call the EPA Headquarters Grant Policy Information and Training        
  Branch at (202) 564-5325.                                                          
Application Procedure:                                                               
  EPA requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for      
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,         
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 3903R, Washington,          
  DC 20460 or to the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of        
  the Catalog. Additional information on the EPA grant package can be found at:      
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. For competitive awards,            
  announcements for competitive funding opportunities will specify application       
  procedures. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to                 
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines for competitive awards will be specified in the competitive              
  announcement.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 120 to 180 days.                                                     
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  Annually subject to the budget and project periods specified in the awards.        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program does not have a statutory or regulatory formula or matching           
  requirement. The Agency may, as a matter of policy, require cost sharing when      
  such a requirement is specified in the announcement of the competitive funding     
  opportunity.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  EPA normally funds grants and cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis.          
  However, EPA can negotiate the project period with each applicant based on         
  project requirements. The project period for the grants or cooperative agreements  
  may range up to seven years. EPA will provide incremental funding for the          
  cooperative agreements each fiscal year (on a 12-month basis) over the duration    
  of the grants or cooperative agreements.                                           
Reports:                                                                             
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in       
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Specific reporting requirements are    
  also identified in the Grant Regulations Part 30 and Part 31. Organizations        
  awarded EFC grants will be required to submit quarterly or semi annual progress    
  reports to the Project Officer for the duration of the grant period. Final reports 
  must be submitted to the Project Officer upon completion of the project. The       
  Project Officers will determine if additional reports are appropriate and          
  necessary.                                                                         
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each

  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit

  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in     
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofits and                
  universities) apply. Financial records, including all documents to support entries 
  on accounting records and to substantiate changes to each grant must be kept       
  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records       
  must be maintained for three years from the date of submission of the final        
  expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as those brought up in an      
  audit, related records must be retained until the matter is completely resolved.   
Account Identification:                                                              
  68-0108-0-1-304.                                                                   
924                                                                            11-08

Obligations:
  FY 07 $2,000,000; FY 08 $2,000,000; FY 09 est $2,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Approximately $222,000 per award per fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  EPA made nine non-competitive awards to the existing Environmental Finance
  Centers in FY 2008 and expects to make nine non-competitive awards to the
  existing Centers in FY 2009. In FY 2010, EPA plans to open the program up to
  competition. Environmental Finance Centers are innovative, neutral and multi-
  disciplinary technical assistance and outreach agents with proven track records
  of working at the local, state, regional and national levels. They have specialized
  expertise in finance, information technology transfer, and all environmental
  media. They have developed numerous successful partnerships and connections
  with regulated parties, regulators, other technical assistance providers, and non-
  profit organizations throughout the U.S. and beyond. The EFCs have developed
  many innovative financing/outreach tools and training courses, and have
  implemented successful projects in 48 states in all ten EPA regions. The EFCs
  have pioneered the development and use of charrettes (intensive workshops)
  with local governments to discover what is needed to pay for environmental
  services. To date, EFCs have held 32 charrettes in 11 States. The charrettes bring
  together local officials with finance, planning, and other technical expertise to
  discuss financing difficulties experienced by the communities. Each charrette
  seeks to create pertinent, realistic and achievable solutions to the finance
  challenge. From the charrettes, on-line case studies have been developed to help
  other communities facing similar challenges. EFCs assist tribal water systems in
  improving public health protection. EFCs also focus on developing and testing a
  variety of methods by which water system viability can be determined and
  maintained.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  These grants and cooperative agreements are subject to EPA's General Grant
  regulations (40 CFR Part 30, "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of
  Higher Education"). Costs for educational institutions will be determined in
  accordance with 2 CFR Part 220 (OMB Circular No. A-21). Information
  pertinent to the EFC program can be found at www.epa.gov/efinpage/efcn.htm.
  Written materials on the program can be obtained by calling the EFC National
  Coordinator at (202) 564-5001.
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog and the Headquarters
  program contacts listed below.
Headquarters Office:
  For information on grants applications and procedures, contact: Environmental
  Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division,
  3903R, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460. For program
  information, contact: Vera Hannigan, Telephone: (202) 564-5001; Fax: (202)
  564-2587; hannigan.vera@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/efinpage.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.814, Brownfields Research, Training and Technical Assistance Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements Program; 66.611, Environmental Policy and Innovation
  Grants Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In FY 07 and FY 08, EPA funded nine university-based Environmental Finance
  Centers (EFCs) located across the nation in eight EPA Regions. Each
  participating university operated an EFC that provided technical assistance and
  outreach services to the regulated communities (States, tribal, local governments
  and businesses).
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the announcement of the competitive funding
  opportunity.
66.305 COMPLIANCE ASSISTANCE SUPPORT FOR
SERVICES TO THE REGULATED COMMUNITY AND
OTHER ASSISTANCE PROVIDERS
   (Compliance Assistance Centers)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ENFORCEMENT AND COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE,
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act of 1972, as amended, Section 104, Public Law 92-500, 33
  U.S.C.A. 1254; Clean Air Act of 1970, as amended, Section 103, Public Law
  91-604, 42 U.S.C.A. 7403; Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976,
  as amended, Section 8001, Public Law 94-580 42 U.S.C.A. 6981.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance to private nonprofit institutions, universities, and
  public agencies to develop projects to improve environmental compliance within
