  an identified industrial/government sector or environmental topic. In FY 2008,      
  the funds are supporting web-based compliance assistance tools utilizing            
  industry and commercial communication channels to deliver the assistance tools.     
   Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: An estimated $780,000 will be used to         
  support the Centers Programs. With this investment, the EPA plans to continue       
  supporting 12 Centers and to expand and improve the Compliance Assistance           
  Center Platform (Platform). Platform activities will include (1) improving or       
  expanding Platform tools and services; (2) supporting Platform-based Centers;       
  and (3) developing and coordinating state regulatory compliance assistance          
  material.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds are to be used to develop and communicate environmental compliance            
  information applicable to the specific industrial/government sector or topic for    
  which financial assistance is provided. It is expected that common                  
  communications channels used by the industry/government would be used to            
  quickly distribute information to the targeted audience. EPA funding must be        
  used only for activities specified in the approved scope of work; discretionary     
  funding will not be provided.                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Applicants must be nonprofit organizations as that term is defined in Section       
  4(6) of the Federal Financial Assistance Management Improvement Act of 1999,        
  Public Law 96-107, 31 U.S.C. 6101 Note. Colleges, universities, and community       
  colleges are eligible to apply. EPA will also accept applications from state, tribal
  and local governments. However, nonprofit organizations described in Section        
  501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying activities as        
  defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not eligible to     
  apply. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA                
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of   
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement               
  Competition Policy. Additionally, for certain funding opportunities under this      
  CFDA, applicants may have to demonstrate how they meet the following factors        
  for threshold eligibility purposes: That they have an indirect cost rate that has   
  been approved or is pending approval by a federal agency or has a cost              
  allocation system that meets the requirements in the applicable OMB Circular;       
  That they have had a previous working relationship(s) with experts and national     
  organizations devoted to the relevant industrial, commercial or governmental        
  sector, or intends to partner with an organization with such expertise; An          
  understanding of the environmental needs of the relevant industrial, commercial     
  or governmental sector through past activities, or intends to partner with an       
  organization with such expertise; That they, or a partnering organization, has      
  familiarity with applicable federal, State and local environmental regulations and  
  experience in developing tools (e.g., training, plain-language guides, fact-sheets, 
  Agency contact locators, etc.) to improve the audiences' understanding of their     
  regulatory obligations; Previous experience (or intends to partner with an          
  organization with experience) in developing and maintaining web-based               
  services.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  The primary beneficiaries are small businesses, local governments and               
  colleges/universities that are being serviced by the grantees. Other beneficiaries  
  include State, local, general public, and the regulated business community.         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  EPA may request that applicants document their nonprofit status. The Agency         
  may also request that applicants demonstrate they have appropriate background,      
  experience in the field, organizational capacity and necessary equipment to carry   
  out projects.                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive       
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify    
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be     
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional             
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see      
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.        
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should          
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or  
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in  
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for     
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,       
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated    
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance       
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in Request for Applications     
  or Request for Initial Proposals. Please contact Headquarters for application       
  deadlines.                                                                          


                                                                                 11-08
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 days from the date of submission of the final proposal.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. Generally, cooperative agreements will be awarded for a five year project
  period. EPA will partially fund each budget period and will consider funding the
  balance of budget requests contingent upon satisfactory progress as certified by
  the EPA Project Officer, the availability of funds, and EPA priorities.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  EPA's Appropriation Act requires that applicants submitting unsolicited research
  grant proposals share in the cost of conducting research. The amount of the cost
  share will be based on the mutuality of interest between the Government and the
  applicant. Applicants will be advised of other matching requirements, if any, in
  Requests for Applications or Requests for Initial Proposals. Although EPA may
  not require matching funds, applicants may be encouraged to provide
  information regarding resources (cash/in-kind services) that they would commit
  to manage a Compliance Assistance Center. This program has no statutory
  formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  EPA generally funds grants and cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis.
  However, EPA can negotiate the project period with each applicant based on
  project requirements. Incremental funding may be available. EPA generally
  limits project periods to 5 years. EPA will partially fund each budget period and
  will consider funding the balance of budget requests contingent upon
  satisfactory progress as certified by the EPA Project Officer, the availability of
  funds, and EPA priorities.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are identified at 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31. EPA may
  include additional information regarding the content and frequency of reporting
  requirements in the terms and conditions of the agreements.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofits and
  universities) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable depending
  upon the identity of the recipient. Financial records, including all documents to
  support entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes to each grant
  must be kept available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts.
  All records must be maintained until expiration of three years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as
  those raised as a result of audit, related records must be retained until the matter
  is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,280,240; FY 08 $780,000; and FY 09 $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $35,000/year - $140,000/year. An approximate average of the financial
  assistance awards that was made in the past and current fiscal years is $65,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Center site visit activity for FY 2007 increased 4 percent from FY 2006. In FY
  2007, the Centers Websites were visited 1,958,000 times by their target
  audiences and the public, and experienced over 6.5 million requests for web
  pages and compliance assistance documents. Center survey respondents
  expressed a high degree of satisfaction with Center services: (1) 83 percent of
  the regulated community strongly agreed or agreed that the Centers helped them
  understand regulations that apply to a sector, local government, or federal
  facility (2)81% of the regulated entity respondents took one or more actions as a
  result of Center use. Actions ranged from contacting a regulatory agency,
  changing a process or practice to conducting a self audit; (3)73 percent of the
  assistance provider community respondents took one or more actions as a result
  of Center use. Actions included: providing fact sheets or compliance guides;
  helping clients identify pollution prevention opportunities; and helping clients
  change processes or practices; (4) 53 percent of the regulated community
                                                                                    925
