  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in Request for Applications    
  or Request for Initial Proposals.                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  About 150 days.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new       
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and   
  will compete for available funds. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and    
  cooperative agreements for training, research, surveys, studies, and               
  investigations. Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on          
  satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of the project to EPA's         
  priorities, and availability of funds.                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  All cooperative agreements will be awarded for a 3 year project period.            
  Activities must be completed within the project timeframe, and all cooperative     
  agreements will be fully funded at the time of award.                              
Reports:                                                                             
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in       
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require interim and

  final progress reports and financial, equipment, and invention reports. Reporting

  requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part 30 and Part 31.     
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,

  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each

  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit               
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in     
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting         
  entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants available to   
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipients grants and cooperative              
  agreements records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the    
  date of submission of final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those raised
  as a result of audits remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain   
  records until the matter is completely resolved.                                   
Account Identification:                                                              
  68-0108-0-1-304.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY0 7 $1,000,000; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 $0.                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  All individual awards are $100,000 each.                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  42 applications were received and 10 awards were granted in fiscal year 2007.      
  No grants were made in fiscal year 2008.                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  40 CFR Part 30.                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not Applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Management                 
  Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code 3903R, Washington,             
  DC 20460. For program information contact: Office of Environmental Justice,        
  Sheila Lewis, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code 2201A, Washington          
  DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 564-0152. Fax: (202) 501-1107. E-mail:                  
  lewis.sheila@epa.gov.                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.epa.gov/compliance/environmentaljustice/grants/ej-cps-grants.html.             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  66.950, Environmental Education and Training Program; 66.951, Environmental        
  Education Grants; 66.604, Environmental Justice Small Grant Program; 66.307,       


                                                                                11-08
  Environmental Justice Training and Fellowship Assistance; 66.308,
  Environmental Justice Research Assistance; 66.309, Surveys, Studies,
  Investigations and Special Purpose Activities Relating to Environmental Justice.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Working with partners to identify and characterize the environmental and
  public health issues associated with straight pipe sewage and acid mine
  drainage, educating community residents about the environmental and health
  effects from these impacts, and working to develop and implement the strategies
  necessary to successfully address these issues. (2) Engaging communities in the
  cleanup and improvement of vacant lots into green spaces and sustain their
  upkeep through a recycling program to help reduce pollutants that contribute to
  communities' high asthma rates. This collaboration is expected to improve
  Philadelphia's recycling rate and air quality. (3) Developing a collaborative
  process that encourages measures for the installation of safe water and sewer
  services, the clean up of toxic substance sites, and the improvement of air
  quality in the area's low-income communities and other comparable
  communities that do not have access to basic amenities. Grassroots training will
  assist residents in working collaboratively with local, State, and federal
  government officials. (4) Working with partners to incorporate environmental
  and health considerations, and to involve disadvantaged communities into the
  decision-making process of the city's Master Plan for housing redevelopment
  and revitalization. The project also encourages use of natural, non-toxic cleaning
  products and practices to reduce exposure to lead paint and decrease the
  incidence of asthma. (5) Creating an Environmental Council with partners to
  conduct air sampling tests in schools, apartments, and community locations to
  determine the extent of indoor and outdoor air pollution in the community. The
  Council will help the community educate itself about asthma, asthma triggers
  and allergens, and what can be done to minimize or eliminate indoor air asthma
  triggers.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.
66.309 SURVEYS, STUDIES, INVESTIGATIONS AND
SPECIAL PURPOSE ACTIVITIES RELATING TO
ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE
   (EJSS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE, ENVIRONMENTAL
  PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104(b)(3); Safe Drinking Water Act, Section
  1442(c)(3); Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001(a); Clean Air Act, Section
  103(b)(3); Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10(a); Federal Insecticide,
  Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Section 20(a); Marine Protection, Research,
  and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203; Comprehensive Environmental Response,
  Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA), Section 311(c).
OBJECTIVES:
  The program's mission/objective is to provide funding in support of surveys,
  studies and investigations, and special purpose assistance programs as they
  relate to environmental and/or public health issues, with a particular emphasis
  on environmental justice. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: There are no
  funding priorities anticipated for FY 2008. Funding Priority-Fiscal Year 2009.
  Activities that support surveys, studies and investigations, and special purpose
  assistance for the award of grants and cooperative agreements that address
  environmental justice concerns. EPA defines "environmental justice" as the fair
  treatment and meaningful involvement of all people regardless of race, color,
  national origin or income with respect to the development, implementation, and
  enforcement of environmental laws, regulations, and policies. Fair treatment
  means that no one group of people, including racial, ethnic, or socioeconomic
  groups, should bear a disproportionate share of the negative environmental
  consequences resulting from industrial, municipal, and commercial operations or
  the execution of federal, state, local, and tribal environmental programs and
  policies. Meaningful involvement means that: (1) potentially affected
  community residents have an appropriate opportunity to participate in decisions
  about a proposed activity that will affect their environment and/or health; (2) the
  public's contribution can influence the regulatory agency's decision; (3) the
  concerns of all participants involved will be considered in the decision-making
  process; and (4) the decision-makers seek out and facilitate the involvement of
  those potentially affected. Assistance agreements may be associated with air
  quality, acid deposition, drinking water, water quality, hazardous waste, toxic
  substances, and/or pesticides.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information
                                                                                    927
