  Community and Other Assistance Providers; 66.604, Environmental Justice          
  Small Grant Program.                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Examples of funded projects include: (1) A project to form collaborative         
  partnerships with impacted and traditionally excluded community residents,       
  organizations, regulatory agencies, and academic institutions to identify,       
  prioritize, and develop plans to address environmental problems and perceived    
  health impacts resulting from Hurricanes Rita and Katrina. The grantee will      
  include residents on an Environmental Justice Steering Committee to ensure       
  meaningful community involvement in the development and implementation of        
  environmental laws, regulations, and policies related to Hurricanes Rita and     
  Katrina. (2) A project to educate the public, particularly economically-         
  disadvantaged households, affected by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita by providing   
  them hands-on-training related to energy conservation and health benefits for the
  citizens directly impacted by the local environmental and/or public health issues
  stemming from the hurricanes. (3) A project designed to protect the health of    
  those who are are doing the physical labor of gutting the flood damaged houses   
  in the greater New Orleans area after Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The project   
  will interrupt the pathways of exposure to mold and other hazardous substances   
  found in the homes and buildings which are being reclaimed by providing          
  workers with protective gear and education materials.                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA     
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
66.310 CAPACITY BUILDING GRANTS AND

                                                                                   
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS FOR COMPLIANCE                                              
ASSURANCE AND ENFORCEMENT ACTIVITIES IN                                            
INDIAN COUNTRY AND OTHER TRIBAL AREAS                                              
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  OFFICE OF ENFORCEMENT AND COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE,                                  
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide    
  Act, Section 20; Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section   
  8001; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic Substances Control Act,       
  Section 10; Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203;        
  National Environmental Policy Act, Section 102(2)(F) (for international          
  awards); and Indian Environmental General Assistance Program Act.                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  Providing financial resources to build and improve the compliance assurance      
  and enforcement capacity of federally-recognized Indian tribal governments       
  (tribes), inter-tribal consortia, or tribal organizations by providing financial 
  resources and to improve compliance with environmental laws. As required by      
  statute, such capacity building efforts may include economic, social science,    
  statistical research, development, studies, surveys, demonstrations,             
  investigations, public education, training, and fellowships to the extent        
  authorized under the federal environmental laws listed above. This Catalog of    
  Federal Domestic Assistance (CFDA) number covers EPA's Environmental             
  Program Management (EPM) resources targeted for compliance assurance and         
  enforcement in Indian country and other tribal areas, including those in Alaska. 
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Building tribal compliance assurance and    
  enforcement capacity to support activities related to the National Indian Country
  Enforcement and Compliance Assurance Priority (Indian Country Priority) is the   
  funding priority for fiscal year 2008. To that end, these funds are targeted to  
  address compliance assistance, compliance monitoring, and enforcement issues     
  associated with waste management, schools, and public water systems. Activity    
  examples include: funding the training of tribal compliance monitoring           
  inspectors and conducting compliance monitoring inspections; demonstrating       
  solid waste management techniques and operation and/or maintenance of public     
  water systems and schools; training of personnel involved in the operation       
  and/or maintenance of public water systems, schools, and solid waste operations; 
  improving understanding of the potential hazards associated with school          
  laboratory chemicals; hiring "circuit riders" to provide compliance assistance to
  tribal public water systems, solid waste programs, and schools; creating tribal  
  environmental codes with enforcement components; creating administrative         
  procedures to facilitate regulatory compliance and enforcement; and developing   
  data systems and assessments to better understand the number of regulated        
  entities in Indian country and their compliance status. OECA's tribal funds      
  should be used to support activities directly related to the Indian Country      
  Priority.creating tribal environmental codes with enforcement components;        
  creating administrative procedures to facilitate regulatory compliance and       
  enforcement; and developing data systems and assessments to better understand    
  the number of regulated entities in Indian country and their compliance status.  
  OECA's tribal funds should be used to support activities directly related to the 
  Indian Country Priority.                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants.                                                                  


                                                                              11-08
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funding is for fixed or known periods associated with specific projects.
  Project grants can include fellowships, scholarships, research grants, training
  grants, traineeships, experimental and demonstration grants, evaluation grants,
  planning grants, technical assistance grants, survey grants, and construction
  grants. OECA identifies special focus areas each funding cycle (annually).
  Previous years have included calls for proposals focusing on conducting sanitary
  surveys at tribal public water systems, compliance assistance to tribal solid
  waste programs, and innovative enforcement and compliance assurance projects,
  including performance measurement, data quality, and public access to
  information. Consistent with existing statutory authority, the funds are used to
  support compliance assistance, compliance monitoring, and enforcement
  activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Tribal Organizations, Inter-tribal Consortia, Federal, and State Organizations,
  Colleges and Universities, and non-for-profit organizations; eligible applicants
  must also have enforcement and compliance assurance responsibilities in Indian
  country and/or other tribal areas or provide support for enforcement and
  compliance assurance projects in Indian country and/or other tribal areas. EPA
  may also limit eligibility for certain competitive funding opportunities under this
  CFDA to: (1) tribes and intertribal consortia located in the Region where a
  project is going to be performed; and/or (2) applicants that have access to Indian
  country or other tribal areas.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments; Inter-tribal Consortia and
  Tribal Organizations; Federal, State, and Multi-jurisdictional State
  Organizations; colleges and universities; and non-for-profit organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  The solicitation or other announcement of availability of funds provides the
  complete schedule for application due dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 days from the date of submission of the final proposal.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable. e resolved
  under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is normally provided in one lump sum. Projects may span multiple
  years. There is no restriction on the time permitted to spend the money awarded,
  although money must be spent prior to expiration associated with the specified
  federal fiscal year.
Reports:
  Semi-annual reports must be submitted to the Project Officer for the duration of
  the project period. Final reports must be submitted to the Project Officer upon
  completion of the project. The EPA Project Officer will determine whether
  additional reports are appropriate and necessary.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
                                                                                   929
