  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:

  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting          
  records and to substantiate charges to each cooperative agreement, must be kept

  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records         
  must be maintained for 3 years from the date of the submission of the annual         
  financial status report or longer if questions still remain, such as those raised as

  a result of audit.                                                                   
Account Identification:                                                                
  68-0103-0-1-304.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $1,445,000; FY 08 $1,095,000; and FY 09 $300,000.                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $3000 to $100,000/fiscal year; $50,000/fiscal year.                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In FY 2008, EPA funded multiple activities in Indian country. For example,           
  EPA funded compliance assistance activities (training and demonstration)             
  designed to improve understanding of how schools and public water systems can        
  operate in compliance with applicable federal environmental laws. Similarly,         
  EPA funded compliance assistance activities (training and demonstration)             
  designed to improve understanding of how tribes can effectively manage solid         
  waste. In addition, EPA funded circuit riders who provide on-site compliance         
  and technical assistance to tribes. The funded circuit riders provided on-site       
  assistance to the owners and operators of public water systems and the managers      
  and staff engaged in the collection, handling, and disposal of solid and             
  household hazardous waste. EPA-funded drinking water circuit riders provided         
  training and assistance related to drinking water system operation, monitoring,      
  data collection, and reporting. Solid waste circuit riders helped with waste         
  assessments and waste investigations. EPA funds were also used for public            
  service announcements and printed educational documents. EPA also funded the         
  drafting of environmental codes associated with drinking water, solid waste, and     
  regulations impacting schools and other environmental situations.                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Applicable EPA Uniform Administrative Requirements covered in the Uniform            
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of           
  Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Non-Profit Organizations (40 CFR Part         
  30), February 15, 1996; Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and           
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments (including Indian and          
  Tribal Governments) (40 CFR Part 31), March 11, 1988; and State and Local            
  Assistance: Provides program-specific requirements for State, tribal, and local      
  grants (40 CFR Part 35, Subparts A and B), October 12, 1982.                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  For EPA Region 1 contact Kristi Rea at (617) 918-1595 or rea.kristi@epa.gov;         
  for EPA Region 2 contact Rebecca Jamison at (212) 637-3949 or                        
  jamison.rebecca@epa.gov; for EPA Region 4 contact Serdar Ertap at (404) 562-         
  9683 or ertrap.serdar@epa.gov; for EPA Region 5 contact Andrew Anderson at           
  (312) 353-9681 or anderson.andrew@epa.gov, for EPA Region 6 contact Connie           
  Overbay at (214) 665-7274 or overbay.connie@epa.gov; for EPA Region 7                
  Wolfgang Brandner contact at (913) 551-7381 or brandner.wolfgang@epa.gov;            
  for EPA Region 8 contact Liz Rogers at (303) 312-6974 or rogers.liz@epa.gov;         
  for EPA Region 9 contact Angela Baranco at (415) 947-4262 or                         
  baranco.angela@epa.gov, and for EPA Region 10 contact Donald Dossett at              
  (206) 553-8257 or dossett.donald@epa.gov.                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Contact Jonathan Binder, The Office of Compliance, Environmental Protection          
  Agency, Ariel Rios Building, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC            
  20460. Telephone: (202) 564-2516, Fax: (202) 564-7083, and E-mail:                   
  binder.jonathan@epa.gov.                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.epa.gov/compliance/state/grants/index.html.                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  In FY 2005 and 2006, EPA funded solid waste and drinking water system circuit

                                                                                       
  riders to provide compliance and technical assistance to tribes in the area of

                                                                                       
  solid waste management. Circuit riders conduct on-site visits at multiple

                                                                                       
  facilities and provide detailed information and training to tribes, tribal

                                                                                       
  environmental professionals, and facility operators on how to ensure compliance

                                                                                       
  and improve environmental performance. In addition, EPA funded training and

                                                                                       
  conferences for tribal environmental professionals, including how to effectively

                                                                                       
  conduct compliance monitoring inspections under federal and tribal

                                                                                       
  environmental laws, to facilitate the development of compliance assurance and

                                                                                       
  enforcement programs. EPA funded the development of tribal environmental

                                                                                       
  codes, including the creation of solid waste management plans designed to

                                                                                       
  ensure the proper handling and disposal of solid waste. Finally, EPA funded

                                                                                       
  tribal data collection and analysis efforts designed to assess the compliance

                                                                                       
  status of regulated facilities and develop tribal plans to respond to the identified

                                                                                       
930                                                                              11-08

  compliance issues.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.
66.312 STATE ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENT PROGRAM
   (EJCA)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE, ENVIRONMENTAL
  PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104(b)(3); Safe Drinking Water Act, Section
  1442(b)(3); Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001(a); Clean Air Act, Section
  103(b)(3); Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10(a); Federal Insecticide,
  Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Section 20(a); Marine Protection, Research,
  and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide funding to State governments to support their efforts to understand,
  promote and integrate approaches and activities that result in meaningful and
  measurable environmental and/or public health improvements in communities
  disproportionately exposed to environmental harms and risks. The goals of this
  program include, but are not limited to, the following: Achieve significant
  measurable environmental and/or public health results; Build broad, robust,
  results-oriented partnerships, particularly with community organizations within
  the affected area(s); Demonstrate a connection to EPA Regional EJ Action Plans
  and the State's participation in the design and implementation of EPA EJ Action
  Plan activities; and Implement a strategy to integrate EJ considerations pertinent
  to the project within the programs, policies, and activities of the appropriate
  State agency or agencies. Funding Priority Fiscal Year 2009: To provide
  funding to State governments to support their efforts to understand, promote and
  integrate approaches and activities that result in meaningful and measurable
  environmental and/or public health improvements in communities
  disproportionately exposed to environmental harms and risks. To support of
  activities which are robust, results oriented, collaborative partnerships, and
  which can be linked to Regional EJ Action Plan activities. By linking to the
  Government Performance Results Act (GPRA) strategic plans and goals, the
  Agency's EJ Action Plans are using various activities to address goals which will
  lead to measurable environmental and public health outcomes.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements)
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov. The
  EJCA Program seeks projects fostering activities such as the following: Public
  awareness programs addressing child lead poisoning and asthma in impacted
  minority or low-income communities. This type of initiative could entail blood
  testing and research activities about effective ways of outreaching and educating
  the public about causes and prevention of (lead poisoning and asthma); follow-
  up for further lead testing and effectiveness determinations of preventive efforts;
  Performance of community assessments and risk reduction projects to develop
  tools that could be used quickly for assessing air quality problems in a
  community; Projects to address multiple health threats posed by chemical and
  biological related industries/organizations located close to communities living in
  state public housing projects; Creation of communication networks and
  partnerships for sharing information and/or conducting focus groups studies on
  EJ related issues, between advocacy groups, local communities and state
  environmental agencies; Development of survey and response plans for targeted
  area; Establishment of collaborative and coordinated efforts, process or
  procedures between state agencies and ongoing projects at local levels to
  maximize use of local resources and reduce duplication of efforts. The recipient
  cannot use these funds for the following activities under this program: litigation
  against the Federal government or any other government entity; construction;
  lobbying; matching funds for other Federal grants; travel for Federal employees;
  and human health studies (taking blood or other information from humans).
Applicant Eligibility:
  State agencies, the District of Columbia, and multi-jurisdictional State
  organizations and public universities and colleges. For certain competitive
  funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit
  eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with
  the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State agencies, U.S. territories and commonwealths, the District of Columbia,
  and state universities and colleges. The following entities are INELIGIBLE:
  private colleges and universities; City, township, county government and their
  entities; Federally recognized Native America Tribal governments; State
  designate Native American Tribal governments.
