Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 Cost             
  Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments and OMB Circular         
  No. A-102 for Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local               
  Governments. Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they have                  
  appropriate background, academic training, experience in the field, and            
  necessary equipment to carry out projects. EPA may ask applicants or principle     
  investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive      
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify   
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be    
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional            
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.       
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for    
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in Request for Applications

                                                                                     
  or Request for Initial Proposals.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  About 150 days.

Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal

  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new       
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and   
  will compete for available funds. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and    
  cooperative agreements for training, research, surveys, studies, and               
  investigations. Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on          
  satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of the project to EPA's         
  priorities, and availability of funds.                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  All cooperative agreements will be awarded for a 3 year project period.            
  Activities must be completed within the project timeframe, and all cooperative     
  agreements will be fully funded at the time of award.                              
Reports:                                                                             
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in       
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require interim and     
  final progress reports and financial, equipment, and invention reports. Reporting  
  requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part 30 and Part 31.     
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each        
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit               
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in     
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133. 40 CFR Part 31- Uniform Administrative                  
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local              
  Governments, 40 CFR Part 35 - State and Local Assistance.                          
Records:                                                                             
  Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents supporting         
  entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants available to   
  personnel authorized to examine EPA recipients' grants and cooperative             
  agreements records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the    
  date of submission of final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those raised
  as a result of audits remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain   
  records until the matter is completely resolved.                                   


                                                                                11-08
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY07 $0; FY08 $0; FY09 $800,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  All individual awards are $160,000 each.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  No content available ¿ This is a new federal assistance program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  EPA Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements to and Local Governments (40 CFR Part 35 Subpart A), October 12,
  1982.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Management
  Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Mail Code 3903R, Washington, DC
  20460. For program information contact: Office of Environmental Justice,
  Sheila Lewis, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Mail Code 2201A, Washington
  DC 20460. Phone: (202)564-0152. Fax: 202-501-1107. Email:
  lewis.sheila@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/compliance/environmentaljustice/grants/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.604 Environmental Justice Small Grants Program; 66.309, Surveys, Studies,
  Investigations and Special Purpose Activities Relating to Environmental Justice.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.
66.418 CONSTRUCTION GRANTS FOR WASTEWATER
TREATMENT WORKS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, as amended, Sections 101(e), 109(b), 201 through 205, 207,
  208(d), 210 through 212, 215 through 219, 304(d)(3), 313, 319, 320, 501, 502,
  511, and 516(b), Public Law 92-500; Clean Water Act, Public Laws 95-217, 96-
  483, 97-117, 100-4, and 101-144.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist and serve as an incentive in construction of municipal wastewater
  treatment works which are required to meet State and/or Federal water quality
  standards and improve the water quality in the waters of the United States. From
  fiscal year (FY) 2004 onwards, American Samoa, Commonwealth of Northern
  Mariana Islands, Guam, Virgin Islands, and the District of Columbia may use up
  to four percent of the funds appropriated under Title VI for administration and
  closeout of their construction grant program. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year
  2008: Annual funding priorities are determined by the State in which the grantee
  is located. The project must be given priority by the State water pollution control
  agency through its project priority system and recommended for funding for
  approval by the EPA Regional Office. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009:
  Annual funding priorities are determined by the State in which the grantee is
  located. The project must be given priority by the State water pollution control
  agency through its project priority system and recommended for funding for
  approval by the EPA Regional Office.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  For construction of municipal wastewater treatment works including privately
  owned individual treatment systems, if a municipality applies on behalf of a
  number of such systems. Such works may serve all or portions of individual
  communities, metropolitan areas, or regions. A project may include, but may not
  be limited to, treatment of industrial wastes. The grantee must require
  pretreatment of any industrial wastes which would otherwise be detrimental to
  efficient operation and maintenance, or the grantee must prevent the entry of
  such waste into the treatment plant. The grantee must have or initiate an
  acceptable system of user charges. From FY 2004 onwards, American Samoa,
  Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Virgin Islands, and the
  District of Columbia may use up to four percent of the funds appropriated under
  Title VI for administration and closeout of their construction grant program.
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any state, local, intrastate agency, or interstate agency, or Federally-Recognized
  Indian tribal government, having jurisdiction over waste disposal. At present,
  new funding for the construction grants program exists only in American Samoa,
                                                                                   931
