  Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, Virgin Islands, and the              
  District of Columbia because these territories were exempt by the U.S. Congress      
  from establishing a State Revolving Fund (SRF). Grants are awarded to only           
  these territories from the SRF funds, which are received as Title II grants.         
  Funding requests for construction of wastewater treatment facilities are now to      
  be made to the SRF representative of the State in which the construction is          
  proposed.                                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Anyone/General Public. Anyone to be served by a wastewater treatment works           
  assisted by this program.                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  (1) Certified copy of authorization and assurances from the applicant's              
  governing body. Authorization must be current, and must designate by name and        
  title the individual who will represent the applicant; (2) current description of    
  the project; (3) statement explaining exact nature of local, State, and any other    
  Federal funds which may be used to finance the project; (4) applicant assurance      
  (which is acceptable to the Regional Administrator) that any necessary discharge     
  permit has been or will be obtained in accordance with Section 401, of Public        
  Law 92-500, as amended; (5) conformance with requirements set forth in 40            
  CFR Part 35; Subpart I. Application may be made for grant assistance for             
  building and erection of the treatment works with an allowance for planning and      
  design costs at the time that the grant for construction is made. Costs will be      
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87, "Costs Principles for           
  State, Local, and Indian Tribal Governments."                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This is an existing program which is winding down as the funding is now being        
  provided under State Revolving Fund Program for construction of wastewater           
  treatment facilities. An environmental assessment is required for this program,      
  which may require the development of an environmental impact statement by            
  EPA. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                         
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult          
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State 
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying    
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                    
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applications must be submitted through the State water pollution control agency      
  to the appropriate EPA Regional Office. The standard application forms as            
  furnished by the Federal agency must be used for this program. EPA requires          
  final applications to be made on the Standard Form 424. Requests for                 
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,           
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 1200 Pennsylvania             
  Avenue, N.W., Mailcode 3903R, Washington, DC 20460 or through the                    
  appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                
  Additional information on the EPA grant package can be found at:                     
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. Applicants may be able to            
  use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities    
  under this CFDA. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular           
  No. A-110.                                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Projects considered for award must be approved by the State water pollution          
  control agency and also certified by such agency as to priority over any other       
  eligible projects. Award is made following such certification and approval by a      
  Regional Office of EPA. Funds authorized by the Congress are allotted to the         
  States in accordance with The Clean Water Act, as amended. Grant awards              
  within individual States are limited by the funds which have been allotted to        
  such States.                                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the appropriate Regional Office for application deadlines.                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Up to 45 days, for EPA Regional Office action after certification by delegated       
  State.                                                                               
Appeals:                                                                               
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.         
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program operates under Section 202 of the Clean Water Act. This program         
  has no statutory formula. The Federal grant may be for up to 55 percent for          
  grants awarded after September 30, 1984 or for 75 percent of eligible project        
  costs for grant assistance awarded before October 1, 1984. The States may lower      
  these percentages with the concurrence of the Regional Administrator pursuant        
  to Section 202(a)(1) of the Clean Water Act as amended by Public Law 100-4.          
  For innovative or alternative treatment processes and techniques referred to in      
  section 201(g)(5) the funding shall be 20 per centum greater than the above          
  approved percentage, but in no event greater than 85 per centum of the cost of       
  construction of the project being funded with the grant. The grantee must assure     
  that they will provide funds for all remaining costs. Some States assist grantees    
  in providing all or part of the non-Federal share. The American Samoa, Guam,

  Northern Marianas Islands, and Virgin Islands will receive the funds allocated

  up to 100 percent of the cost of construction.



932                                                                              11-08

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The term of the grant shall be determined at the time of grant award. Grant
  payments are based on work completed, equipment delivered, or sometimes off-
  site manufacturing or services rendered. Final grant payment is made after
  construction is completed and satisfactory final inspection and performance
  evaluation are carried out.
Reports:
  Annual inspection by the State agency for compliance with permit requirements
  including a written report concerning operation and maintenance of waste
  treatment facility, and certification one year after beginning operation that the
  works are meeting project performance standards.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained for 3 years after project closeout, and if questions still remain, such
  as those raised in a court appeal, related records should be retained until the
  matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.
Obligations:
  Title II obligations available for construction grants to District of Columbia,
  American Samoa, Guam, Northern Marianas Islands, and the Virgin Islands
  were: FY 07 $7,994,000; FY 08 $5,083,000; and FY 09 est. $7,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $100,000 to $15,000,000/fiscal year; $7,550,000/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, four grants were awarded for a total amount of $5.5 million. In FY
  2008, four grants totaling approximately $8.5 million are expected to be
  awarded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Grants for Construction of Treatment Works, Environmental Protection Agency
  (40 CFR Part 35, Subpart E (and Subpart I, applicable to grants awarded after
  May 12, l982); General Grant Regulations and Procedures, EPA (40 CFR Part
  31); "Construction Grants 1985 (Guidelines for applicants and grantees)"; and
  Construction Grants Handbook of Procedures (Guidelines for Project Officers)."
  For these and other publications, please contact EPA's Office of Wastewater
  Management, Municipal Support Division, MC-4204M, 1200 Pennsylvania
  Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20460.
Regional or Local Office:
  Information regarding appropriate waste treatment requirements and State and
  Federal assistance may be obtained from the State water pollution control
  agency. Individuals may also communicate with the appropriate EPA Regional
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Also, contact your State agency
  concerning possible assistance under a State revolving fund (Title VI) of the
  1987 Amendments of the Clean Water Act.
Headquarters Office:
  Kellie Kubena, Acting Branch Chief, Municipal Assistance Branch, MC-
  4204M, Municipal Support Division, Office of Wastewater Management,
  Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington,
  DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 566-0448, Fax: (202) 501-2396, E-mail:
  kubena.kellie@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/owm/cwfinance/index.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.458, Capitalization Grants for Clean Water State Revolving Funds.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  New and expanded wastewater treatment plants, infiltration-inflow correction,
  new interceptors, new collector sewers, and correction of combined sewer
  overflows (CSO) projects.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Annual funding priorities are determined by the State in which the grantee is
  located. The project must be given priority by the State water pollution control
  agency through its project priority system and recommended for funding for
  approval by the EPA Regional Office.
