66.419 WATER POLLUTION CONTROL STATE,                                                
INTERSTATE, AND TRIBAL PROGRAM SUPPORT                                               
                                                                                     
   (106 Grants)                                                                      
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Clean Water Act (CWA), Section 106, as amended, Public Law 95-217, 33              
  U.S.C. 1251 et seq.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assist States (including territories, the District of Columbia, and Indian      
  Tribes qualified under CWA Section 518(e)), and interstate agencies in             
  establishing and maintaining adequate measures for prevention and control of       
  surface and ground water pollution from both point and nonpoint sources.           
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: States and Tribes will continue to focus on   
  fulfilling their basic responsibilities under the CWA and, based upon a shared     
  understanding with EPA of the environmental progress expected, will identify       
  program activities that will best support attaining targeted environmental         
  improvements. State priority efforts will include: (1) adoption of new             
  comprehensive monitoring strategies and the development of statistically-valid     
  monitoring networks to target activities and determine water quality status and    
  trends; (2) support of cost-effective water quality management decisions           
  (including total maximum daily loads (TMDLs) and watershed plans designed to       
  meet water quality standards); and (3) implementing concentrated animal            
  feeding operations (CAFOS) and storm water permitting programs. States and         
  Tribes will work toward adoption of nutrient criteria for fresh waters, adoption   
  of the 1986 bacteria criteria, and adoption of fish tissue criteria for mercury in 
  their water quality standards. States will support EPA in implementing the         
  "Permitting for Environmental Results Strategy (PERS)," including: (1)             
  developing and strengthening systems to ensure the integrity of the program; (2)   
  achieving and measuring environmental results; and (3) incorporating               
  efficiencies in permitting program operations. States will also conduct source     
  water protection actions to protect both ground water and surface waters used for  
  drinking water. Tribes will continue to conduct watershed assessments and will     
  maintain and improve their capacity to implement water quality programs            
  through monitoring, assessments, planning, and standards development. Funding      
  Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: States and Tribes will continue to focus on fulfilling
  their basic responsibilities under the CWA and, based upon a shared                
  understanding with EPA of the environmental progress expected, will identify       
  program activities that will best support attaining targeted environmental         
  improvements. State priority efforts will include: (1) adoption of new             
  comprehensive monitoring strategies and the development of statistically-valid     
  monitoring networks to target activities and determine water quality status and    
  trends; (2) support of cost-effective water quality management decisions           
  (including total maximum daily loads (TMDLs) and watershed plans designed to       
  meet water quality standards); and (3) implementing concentrated animal            
  feeding operations (CAFOS) and storm water permitting programs. States and         
  Tribes will work toward adoption of nutrient criteria for fresh waters, adoption   
  of the 1986 bacteria criteria, and adoption of fish tissue criteria for mercury in 
  their water quality standards. States will support EPA in implementing the         
  "Permitting for Environmental Results Strategy (PERS)," including: (1)             
  developing and strengthening systems to ensure the integrity of the program; (2)   
  achieving and measuring environmental results; and (3) incorporating               
  efficiencies in permitting program operations. States will also conduct source     
  water protection actions to protect both ground water and surface waters used for  
  drinking water. Tribes will continue to conduct watershed assessments and will     
  maintain and improve their capacity to implement water quality programs            
  through monitoring, assessments, planning, and standards development.              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Water pollution control grants are intended to provide continuing support for the  
  prevention and abatement of surface and ground water pollution from point and      
  nonpoint sources. Continuing and recurrent water quality management program        
  activities funded include water quality planning and standards; monitoring and     
  assessments; inspections and enforcement; permitting; training; advice and         
  assistance to local agencies; and public information. Funds cannot be used for     
  construction, operation, or maintenance of waste treatment plants, nor can they    
  be used for costs financed by other Federal grants. Assistance agreement awards    
  under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further        
  information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the        
  following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible entities include State and interstate water pollution control agencies as 
  defined in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, and Indian tribes qualified    
  under CWA Section 518(e). Agencies making application for funds must               
  annually submit their pollution-control program to the appropriate EPA Regional    
  Administrator for approval. Requirements of the program are based on Section       
  106 of the Act, and 40 CFR Parts 31, 35, and 130. For certain competitive          


                                                                                11-08
  funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit
  eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with
  the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and interstate water pollution control agencies and Indian tribes qualified
  under Section 518(e) of the Clean Water Act (CWA).
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State,
  tribal, and local governments. State and interstate agencies and Indian tribes
  qualified under Section 518(e) of the Clean Water Act must show compliance
  with 40 CFR 35, Subpart A and Subpart B.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Informal meetings are held between regional office, State, territorial, and Indian
  tribe applicant agencies concerning program preparation. The standard
  application forms, as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB
  Circular No. A-102, must be used for this program. The grant agreement must
  adequately reflect the priorities identified in the State/EPA Agreement.
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The grants application must be submitted to the appropriate EPA Regional
  Office, Grants Administration Branch (see Appendix IV of the Catalog). The
  standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required by
  OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. EPA requires final
  applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for application kits
  must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and
  Interagency Agreements Management Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue,
  N.W., Mailcode (3903R), Washington, DC 20460 or through the appropriate
  EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Additional
  information on the EPA grant package can be found at:
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. Applicants may be able to
  use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by the appropriate EPA Regional Office and if
  approved, are signed by the Regional Administrator. For competitive awards,
  EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals, and/or submissions in
  accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive
  announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA
  policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Application forms must be submitted according to dates established by the
  Regional Administrator. Contact the Regional Office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 30 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The regulation that implements the formula can be found at CFR 35.162. As
  stated in the Clean Water Act, appropriated funds are allotted among the State
  and Interstate Water Pollution Control Agencies on the basis of the extent of the
  pollution problems in the respective States. The six components in the revised
  Section 106 State allotment formula selected to reflect the extent of the water
  pollution control problems in the United States are: (1) surface water area; (2)
  ground water use; (3) water quality impairment; (4) point sources; (5) non-point
  sources; and (6) population of urbanized areas. The set-aside for Interstate Water
  Pollution Control Agencies is 2.6 percent of the total State monies appropriated
  under Section 106. The interstate allotment formula consists of two parts: (1) a
  funding floor, and (2) a variable portion. To receive a Section 106 Water
  Pollution Control grant, a State or interstate agency must expend annually for
  recurrent Section 106 program expenditures an amount of non-federal funds at
  least equal to expenditures during the fiscal year ending June 30, 1971. A
  portion of the annual Section 106 appropriation is set-aside for eligible Indian
  Tribes qualified under CWA Section 518(e), and an allocation formula is used to
  distribute these funds to the EPA Regions. The Tribal allocation formula
                                                                                   933
