  consists of both a base portion (which is currently equal to $65,000 times the        
  total number of Tribes with Treatment as a State (TAS) approval for Section 106       
  grants in each EPA Region), plus a weighted variable portion. The variable            
  portion is based upon the total tribal water area (50 percent), land area (25         
  percent), and reservation population (25 percent) in each EPA Region. Tribal          
  work plan costs include the costs of planning, developing, establishing,              
  improving, and maintaining a water pollution control program. The Regional            
  Administrator may provide up to 95 percent of the approved work plan costs for        
  Tribes or intertribal consortia establishing a Section 106 water pollution control    
  program. The Regional Administrator may increase the maximum Federal share            
  if the tribe or intertribal consortium can demonstrate in writing to the              
  satisfaction of the Regional Administrator that fiscal circumstances within the       
  Tribe or within each Tribe that is a member of an intertribal consortium are          
  constrained to such an extent that fulfilling the 5 percent match requirement         
  would impose undue hardship. Since 2005, additional funds have been allocated         
  for the purposes of strengthening State and Territorial water quality monitoring      
  programs.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  One year; payments are approved quarterly and disbursed monthly.                      
Reports:                                                                                
  Annual expenditure reports; semiannual program evaluations; revised budget            
  following reallocation of funds; and other reports as Grant Agreement requires.       
Audits:                                                                                 
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the        
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,        
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.          
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each           
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,           
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit                   
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in         
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal            
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                                
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting           
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to          
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be               
  maintained for 3 years from the date of submission of the annual financial status     
  report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related 
  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.                   
Account Identification:                                                                 
  68-0103-0-1-304.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $211,210,800; FY 08 est. 218,206,000; and FY 09 est. $221,664,000.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $10,000 to $11,215,000/fiscal year; $5,610,000/fiscal year.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                        
  In each fiscal year, grants are awarded to encourage and support the conduct of       
  Water Pollution Control programs by the 50 States, 6 Territories, the District of     
  Columbia, 6 Interstate Commissions, and Indian Tribes qualifying under CWA

                                                                                        
  Section 518(e). In FY 07, 180 grant awards were made. FY 07 funds were used

                                                                                        
  to continue to support State and Tribes' efforts to fulfill their basic

                                                                                        
  responsibilities under the CWA and identify program activities that best support

                                                                                        
  attaining targeted environmental improvements. Accomplishments included: the

                                                                                        
  adoption of new comprehensive monitoring strategies and the development of

                                                                                        
  statistically-valid monitoring networks to target activities and determine water      
  quality status and trends; the support of cost-effective water quality management     
  decisions (including total maximum daily loads (TMDLs)) and the development           
  of watershed plans designed to meeting water quality standards); and the              
  implementation of concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFOS) and storm            
  water permitting programs. EPA, States, interstates, and Tribes continue to work      
  together to define tailored strategies that align programs to deliver results on a    
  watershed basis. At a minimum, these Regional watershed based strategies give         
  priority to: (1) fostering the development of watershed plans under State             
  nonpoint source programs; (2) assuring that high priority permits are current; (3)    
  tracking permitting for environmental results program integrity follow-up             
  actions; (4) developing TMDLs for impaired waters; and (5) organizing                 
  restoration plans on a waterbody basis. In FY 08, an anticipated 180-200 grant        
  awards will be made. FY 08 funds will continue these efforts, and States and          
  Tribes will work toward adoption of nutrient criteria for fresh waters, adoption      
  of the 1986 bacteria criteria, and adoption of fish tissue criteria for mercury in    
  their water quality standards. States will also conduct source water protection       
  actions to protect both ground water and surface waters used for drinking water.      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures, Environmental Protection Agency

                                                                                        
  (40 CFR Part 31); Handbook of Procedures, State and Interstate Program Grants;

                                                                                        
  Environmental Protection Agency, State and Local Assistance Programs, Grants

                                                                                        
  for Water Quality Planning, Management and Implementation (40 CFR Part 130

                                                                                        
  and 40 CFR Part 35 Subpart A and B); Office of Water National Program



934                                                                               11-08

  Guidance for FY 2005.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Robyn Delehanty, Section 106 State and Interstate Program Coordinator, Office
  of Wastewater Management (4201M), Environmental Protection Agency, EPA
  East Building, 1201 Constitution Avenue, N.W. Washington, DC 20460.
  Telephone: (202) 564-3880; Fax: (202) 501-2399; E-mail:
  delehanty.robyn@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/owm/cwfinance/pollutioncontrol.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.454, Water Quality Management Planning; 66.600, Environmental Protection
  Consolidated Grants for the Insular Areas - Program Support.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grants are made to States, interstate agencies, and tribes qualified under CWA
  Section 518(e), for the administration of State and tribal programs for the
  prevention, reduction, and control of water pollution. Activities funded include
  administration of State and tribal water quality planning programs; water quality
  standards programs; water quality monitoring and assessments; National
  Pollutant Discharge and Elimination System (NPDES) permitting programs;
  compliance and enforcement programs, and ground water protection programs.
  More specifically, adoption and implementation of new comprehensive
  monitoring strategies, as stated in the March 2003 Elements of a State Water
  Monitoring and Assessment Guidance, and the development of statistically valid
  monitoring networks to help target activities and determine water quality status
  and trends; enhancement of the quality and timeliness of state/tribal water
  quality standards triennial reviews so that standards are based on sound science
  and EPA guidance; adoption of nutrient criteria for fresh waters, adoption of the
  1986 bacteria criteria, and adoption of fish tissue criteria for mercury into state
  water quality standards; effective management of the permit program through
  State participation in implementing EPA's "Permitting for Environmental
  Results Strategy (PERS)," focusing on (1) developing and strengthening systems
  to ensure the integrity of the program; (2) achieving and measuring
  environmental results; and (3) incorporating efficiencies in permitting program
  operations; implementation of program enhancements identified in the FY 2004
  comprehensive assessment of NPDES program integrity; and State storm water
  and concentrated animal feeding operations (CAFO) permitting programs, wet
  weather issues and combined sewer overflows (CSOs).
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Section 106
  funds are awarded to State, territory, interstate, and Indian tribal agencies in
  accordance with overall water quality management needs, the requirements of
  programs covered by these agreements, and EPA Program guidance.
66.424 SURVEYS, STUDIES, INVESTIGATIONS,
DEMONSTRATIONS, AND TRAINING GRANTS - SECTION
1442 OF THE SAFE DRINKING WATER ACT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA), Section 1442, as amended; Public Law 104-
  182; National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), Section 102(2)(F).
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To support surveys, studies, investigations, demonstrations, and training
  associated with source water and drinking water; (2) To develop and expand
  capabilities of programs to carry out the purposes of the Safe Drinking Water
  Act (SDWA). Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Funding priorities include
  providing assistance for the following: (1) research on the occurrence of
  contaminants in drinking water; (2) source water protection and treatment
  methods; measures to protect water quality in the distribution system and at the
  tap; (3) tribal source water protection program support; tribal operator
  certification program support; (4) tribal capacity development program support;
  and (5) assistance to tribes in administration of the Drinking Water
  Infrastructure Grants to identify health effects associated with drinking water
  contaminants.Funding priorities also include providing assistance for the
  following training and technical assistance activities: (1) training personnel who
  manage or operate public water systems; (2) training personnel for occupations
  involving the public health aspects of providing safe drinking water; (3) training
  to develop and expand the capabilities of states and municipalities to carry out
  the SDWA; and (4) technical assistance to enable small public water systems to
  meet the requirements of SDWA. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Funding
  priorities include providing assistance for the following: (1) research on the
  occurrence of contaminants in drinking water; (2) source water protection and
  treatment methods; measures to protect water quality in the distribution system
  and at the tap; (3) tribal source water protection program support; tribal operator
  certification program support; (4) tribal capacity development program support;
