  and (5) assistance to tribes in administration of the Drinking Water               
  Infrastructure Grants to identify health effects associated with drinking water    
  contaminants.Funding priorities also include providing assistance for the          
  following training and technical assistance activities: (1) training personnel who 
  manage or operate public water systems; (2) training personnel for occupations     
  involving the public health aspects of providing safe drinking water; (3) training 
  to develop and expand the capabilities of states and municipalities to carry out   
  the SDWA; and (4) technical assistance to enable small public water systems to     
  meet the requirements of SDWA.                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The funds will support research, investigations, studies, demonstrations, and      
  training associated with source water and drinking water. Grants and cooperative   
  agreements are available to support recipients' allowable direct costs incident to 
  approved scopes of work, plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with         
  established EPA policies and regulations. Funding awarded for research does not    
  include research within the purview of EPA's Office of Research and                
  Development. Specific uses and restrictions on funds will be described in detail   
  in the competitive announcements. Assistance agreement awards under this           
  program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information       
  regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following          
  website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States, territories, Indian
  Tribes, and possessions of the U.S. (including the District of Columbia); public   
  and private universities and colleges; hospitals; laboratories; public or private  
  nonprofit institutions; and individuals. Nonprofit organizations described in      
  Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying             
  activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not  
  eligible to apply. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA   
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of  
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement              
  Competition Policy.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, Indian Tribes,      
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, and other public and private   
  nonprofit institutions and individuals.                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for                 
  educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions, and   
  FAR Part 31 for profit makers. Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they     
  have appropriate background, academic training, experience in the field, and       
  necessary equipment to carry out projects. EPA may ask applicants or principle     
  investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive      
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify   
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be    
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional            
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.       
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.This     
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circulars No. A-102 and No. A-         
  110.                                                                               
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The standard application forms, as furnished by the Federal agency and required    
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110, must be used for this program. EPA            
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for          
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,         
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, (3903R),                    
  Washington, DC 20460 or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed         
  in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Additional information on the EPA grant             
  package can be found at: http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. For       
  competitive awards, announcements for competitive funding opportunities will       
  specify application procedures. Applicants may be able to use                      
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities      
  under this CFDA.                                                                   
                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
                                                                                     
Deadlines:

  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in the announcement for the    
  competitive funding opportunity.                                                   


                                                                                11-08
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and cooperative agreements
  for water surveys, studies, demonstrations, and investigations. Approval of
  subsequent funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress,
  continued relevance of the project to EPA's priorities, availability of funds, and
  Agency policy on the competitive grant process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  EPA normally funds grants and cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis.
  However, EPA may negotiate the project period with each applicant based on
  project requirements. The term of the grant shall be determined at the time of
  grant award.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part
  30 and Part 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofits and
  universities) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable depending
  upon the identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep financial records,
  including all documents supporting entries on accounting records and to
  substantiate changes in grants, available to personnel authorized to examine
  EPA recipients grants and cooperative agreements records. Recipients must
  maintain all records until 3 years from the date of submission of final
  expenditure reports. If questions, such as those raised as a result of audits remain
  following the 3-year period, recipients must retain records until the matter is
  completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304; 68-0107-0-1-304; EPM and S&T.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,383,418; FY 08 $9,098,778; and FY 09 est. $1,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $10,000 to $600,000/fiscal year; $120,000/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Competitions are held throughout the year at Headquarters and in the Regions
  based on available funds and Agency priorities. Competitive announcements
  typically include the number of anticipated awards. Seven grants were awarded
  in FY 07 and four grants were awarded in FY 08 in support of drinking water
  and source water initiatives associated with developing and expanding
  capabilities of programs to carry out the purposes of the SDWA. In FY 09, it is
  anticipated that additional support for drinking water and source water
  initiatives will be provided.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Surveys, studies, and investigations grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to EPA's General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part
  31). Training grants and cooperative agreements are subject to EPA's
  Regulations for Training Assistance (40 CFR Part 45).
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters
  program contacts listed below.
Headquarters Office:
  For information on grant applications and procedures, contact: Environmental
  Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division,
  1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, Mailcode (3903R), Washington, DC 20460. For
  program information contact: Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water, Joe
                                                                                    935
