  A. Jackson, Telephone: (202) 564-3817; Fax: (202) 564-3754; E-mail:                    
  jackson.joe-a@epa.gov. Immediate Office - Kimberley Davis, Telephone: (202)            
  564-4633; Fax: (202) 564-0348; E-mail: roy-davis.kimberley@epa.gov.                    
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.epa.gov/safewater.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  66.034, Surveys, Studies, Research, Investigations, Demonstrations, and Special        
  Purpose Activities Relating to the Clean Air Act; 66.436, Surveys, Studies,            
  Investigations, Demonstrations, and Training Grants and Cooperative                    
  Agreements - Section 104(b)(3) of the Clean Water Act; 66.716, Research,               
  Development, Monitoring, Public Education, Training, Demonstrations, and               
  Studies; 66.510, Surveys, Studies, Investigations and Special Purpose Grants           
  within the Office of Research and Development; 66.610, Surveys, Studies,               
  Investigations and Special Purpose Grants within the Office of the                     
  Administrator.                                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  Assisting states in effective implementation of SDWA requirements; assistance          
  to states in ground water protection and conservation; developing utility              
  planning tools; capacity development support; and source water protection              
  through prevention.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA           
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Competitive             
  applications and proposals will be selected in accordance with announced               
  criteria.                                                                              
                                                                                         
66.432 STATE PUBLIC WATER SYSTEM SUPERVISION                                             
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Public Health Service Act, as amended; Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974,                
  Public Law 93-523, as amended; Public Law 95-190; Public Law 96-16; Public             
  Law 96-502; Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986; Safe Drinking                  
  Water Act Amendments of 1996, Public Law 104-182.                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  The objective of these grants is to provide financial assistance to eligible States    
  and Tribes (those that have Primary Enforcement Responsibility for the Public          
  Water System Supervision Program, or are developing such a program), for the           
  conduct of their Public Water Systems Supervision (PWSS) Program. In cases             
  where a State or a Tribe do not have, or are not developing, a Primary                 
  Enforcement Responsibility program, EPA is authorized to use funds that would          
  have otherwise been made available to the State or the Tribe to assist it in direct    
  implementation of the PWSS program. The fundamental goal of the PWSS                   
  Program, and the grants, is to ensure that water systems comply with the               
  National Primary Drinking Water Regulations listed in 40 CFR 141                       
  (http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/waisidx_02/40cfr141_02.html). States,              
  territories, and Indian Tribes that receive PWSS grants are to use them to ensure      
  that drinking water systems, of all types, and of all sizes: (1) that are currently in 
  compliance with the drinking water regulations, remain in compliance, (2) that         
  are not currently in compliance, achieve compliance, and (3) are preparing to          
  comply with any new drinking water regulation that will be taking effect in FY         
  06. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: The priority for the PWSS grants is to        
  ensure that the population served by community water systems will receive              
  drinking water that meets all applicable health-based drinking water standards.        
  The primary components of a State or Tribal PWSS program are: the adoption of          
  State drinking water regulations as stringent as the Federal regulations; the          
  development and maintenance of an inventory of public water systems                    
  throughout the State; the development and maintenance of a database housing            
  compliance information on public water systems; the conduct of sanitary surveys        
  on the public water systems; the review of public water system plans and               
  specifications; the provision of technical assistance to system managers and           
  operators; a program to ensure that the public water systems keep their                
  consumers informed about the quality of the water they are providing; the              
  certification of laboratories that are allowed to perform the analysis of drinking     
  water that will be used to determine compliance with the drinking water                
  regulations; and the conduct of an enforcement program to ensure that the public       
  water systems comply with all of the requirements. Funding Priority - Fiscal           
  Year 2009: The priority for the PWSS grants is to ensure that the population           
  served by community water systems will receive drinking water that meets all           
  applicable health-based drinking water standards. The primary components of a          
  State or Tribal PWSS program are: the adoption of State drinking water                 
  regulations as stringent as the Federal regulations; the development and               
  maintenance of an inventory of public water systems throughout the State; the          
  development and maintenance of a database housing compliance information on            
  public water systems; the conduct of sanitary surveys on the public water              
  systems; the review of public water system plans and specifications; the               
  provision of technical assistance to system managers and operators; a program to       
  ensure that the public water systems keep their consumers informed about the           
  quality of the water they are providing; the certification of laboratories that are    


936                                                                                11-08

  allowed to perform the analysis of drinking water that will be used to determine
  compliance with the drinking water regulations; and the conduct of an
  enforcement program to ensure that the public water systems comply with all of
  the requirements.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funds are to be used to develop and implement a public water system
  supervision program adequate to enforce the requirements of the Safe Drinking
  Water Act. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or
  relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial
  information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligibility is limited to the governments of the fifty States; the District of
  Columbia; the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; the Northern Mariana Islands; the
  Virgin Islands; Guam; American Samoa; and federally recognized Tribes, that
  have either assumed primary enforcement responsibility for the PWSS Program
  or that want to develop a program that will allow them to seek delegation for a
  PWSS Program. EPA may also use funds allotted for a State or Tribal program,
  if the State or Tribe does not have, or is not developing, primary enforcement
  responsibility. Eligibility is also limited to a single agency within each State,
  Territory, or Tribe - an agency that has been designated by the jurisdiction's
  Governor or Chief Executive Officer. Primary Enforcement Responsibility for
  the Public Water System Supervision Program is provided for in 40 CFR 142
  (http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/waisidx_02/40cfr142_02.html).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The beneficiaries are the agencies within the fifty States; the District of
  Columbia; the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; the Northern Mariana Islands; the
  Virgin Islands; Guam; American Samoa; and federally recognized Tribes, that
  have been designated by the jurisdiction's Governor or Chief Executive Officer
  as being responsible for the supervision of water supplies within the State,
  Territory, or Tribe.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State,
  local, and Tribal Governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The grant application, including a Program Plan, must be submitted to the
  appropriate EPA Regional Administrator. The standard application forms, as
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102, must
  be used for this program. EPA requires final applications to be made on
  Standard Form 424. Requests for application kits must be submitted to the
  Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements
  Management Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mailcode (3903R),
  Washington, DC 20460 or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed
  in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Applicants may be able to use
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA. Additional information on the EPA grant package can be
  found at: http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm.
Award Procedure:
  The grant application and Program Plan are reviewed by the appropriate EPA
  Regional Office, and if approved, are signed by the Regional Administrator, who
  then awards the funds to the recipient.
Deadlines:
  Applications must be submitted 60 days before the beginning of the agreed upon
  budget period.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Maximum of 60 days.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR Parts 30.63 or 40 CFR Part 31.70, as
  applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  State allotments are computed through use of a formula, as prescribed in Public
  Law 93-523 Section 1443 (a)(3) and (a)(4), 40 CFR 35.172. Funds appropriated
  each year are allotted on the basis of: (a) State, Territory, or Tribal population
  (20 percent) as contained in the most currently available (published) U.S.
  Census Bureau data; (b) State, Territory, or Tribal geographical area (10 percent)
  as contained in the most currently available (published) U.S. Census Bureau
  data; (c) the number of active community and non-transient non-community
  water systems being regulated by the State, Territory, or Tribe that are on record
