  in EPA's data system (56 percent); and (d) the number of active transient non-      
  community water systems being regulated by the State, Territory, or Tribe that      
  are on record in EPA's data system (14 percent). All States, the District of        
  Columbia, and Puerto Rico are eligible for a minimum of $334,500 (which is          
  equal to 1 percent of the FY 1989 PWSS Program appropriation). The American         
  Samoa, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands are eligible      
  for a minimum of $111,500 (which is equal to 1/3 percent of the FY 1989             
  PWSS Program appropriation). Up to seven percent of the amount appropriated         
  for the PWSS Program is set-aside to support Public Water System Supervision        
  programs on Indian lands (including grants to Tribes) in accordance with EPA        
  Grant Regulations. The formula factors of population and land area are statutory.   
  The other factors, and all of the weightings, are Agency imposed. Federal           
  assistance is limited to 75 percent of total, eligible program costs.               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Annual grants. There is no restriction placed upon the time permitted to spend      
  the award. Awards are released through letters of credit or reimbursement.          
Reports:                                                                              
  Annual onsite evaluation, and final financial and progress reports, are required,   
  as set forth in the grant agreement.

Audits:                                                                               
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the

  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,      
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.        
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each         
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,         
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in      
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting         
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to        
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be             
  maintained for 3 years from the date of submission of the annual financial status   
  report or until any audit exceptions have been resolved.                            
Account Identification:                                                               
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.                                                              
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $75,277,707; FY 08 est. $97,554,000; and FY 09 est. $97,595,000.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $123,000 to $6,055,900/fiscal year; $1,642,027/fiscal year.                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  During FY 07 and FY 08, 30 States, one territory, and four Indian Tribe were        
  awarded primacy or primacy development grants under the PWSS Program.               
  Similar award statistics are anticipated for FY 08. The majority of the grant       
  funds were used for State, territorial, or Tribal governmental salaries to allow the
  governments to: develop and maintain State drinking water regulations; develop      
  and maintain an inventory of public water systems throughout the State; develop     
  and maintain a database housing compliance information on public water              
  systems; conduct sanitary surveys on the public water systems; review public        
  water system plans and specifications to ensure systems meet State design           
  standards; provide technical assistance and training to water system managers       
  and operators to ensure they are knowledgeable of the State requirements and        
  best treatment and operation practices; conduct of a program to ensure that the     
  public water systems keep their consumers informed about the quality of the         
  water they are providing; inspect and certify laboratories that are allowed to      
  perform the analysis of drinking water that will be used to determine compliance    
  with the drinking water regulations; and conduct an enforcement program to          
  ensure that the public water systems comply with all of the requirements. States,   
  territories, and Tribes also use the grant funds to upgrade and maintain the data   
  systems that are used to store and track information on public water systems. In    
  FY 09, grants will continue to focus on supporting projects to achieve the          
  objective of protecting human health by reducing exposure to contaminants in        
  drinking water, including protecting source waters.                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Financial Assistance for Continuing Environmental Programs (40 CFR 35,              
  Subpart A); General Grant Regulations and Procedures (40 CFR Part 30).              
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Contact appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.       
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Renee Morris, Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water (4606M), Office of          
  Water, Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460. Telephone:            
  (202) 564-8037; Fax: (202) 564-3755; E-mail: morris.renee@epa.gov;                  
  Alternate; Will Bowman, Office of Ground Water and Drinking Water (4604M),          
  Office of Water, Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460.             
  Telephone: (202) 564-3782; Fax: (202) 564-3755; E-mail:                             
  bowman.will@epa.gov.                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                     


                                                                                 11-08
  http://www.epa.gov/safewater/pws/pwsgrant.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.433, State Underground Water Source Protection; 66.468, Capitalization
  Grants for Drinking Water State Revolving Funds.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funding has been awarded to each of the 49 States, five territories, and one
  Indian Tribe that has primary enforcement responsibility for the PWSS Program.
  The grants were used by these governments, primarily for governmental salaries
  to: develop State drinking water regulations, inventory drinking water systems,
  manage information on public water systems, ensure public participation
  regarding drinking water systems, provide technical assistance to public water
  systems, and enforce drinking water quality standards.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Adequacy of State's annual program plan for the adoption and enforcement
  of drinking water regulations which are no less stringent than the national
  primary drinking regulations. (2) Designation of a State agency to receive the
  grant and be responsible for conducting the public water system supervision
  program. (3) Compliance with requirements of 40 CFR 30 and 40 CFR 35.
66.433 STATE UNDERGROUND WATER SOURCE
PROTECTION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe Drinking Water Act of 1974, Public Law 93-523, as amended; Public Law
  96-63, Public Law 96-502, as amended; Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments
  of 1986, Public Law 99-339; Safe Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1996,
  Public Law 104-182, 42 U.S.C. 300.
OBJECTIVES:
  To foster development and implementation of underground injection control
  (UIC) programs under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA). The objective of
  the grant program is to provide financial assistance, to eligible States and Tribes,
  for the implementation of their UIC Program. The fundamental goal of the
  program, and the grants, is to ensure that underground sources of drinking water
  are protected from endangering injection activities. Funding Priority - Fiscal
  Year 2008: The program will fund the major components of State UIC programs
  which include: the development and maintenance of UIC regulations; the
  development and maintenance of inventories of injection systems; the
  development and maintenance of databases housing compliance information on
  underground injection well activities; the implementation of UIC permitting
  activities; and the implementation of enforcement programs to ensure that
  underground sources of drinking water are protected from endangering injection
  activities. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: The program will fund the major
  components of State UIC programs which include: the development and
  maintenance of UIC regulations; the development and maintenance of
  inventories of injection systems; the development and maintenance of databases
  housing compliance information on underground injection well activities; the
  implementation of UIC permitting activities; and the implementation of
  enforcement programs to ensure that underground sources of drinking water are
  protected from endangering injection activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funds are to be used to develop and implement an underground injection
  control program adequate to enforce the requirements of the Safe Drinking
  Water Act. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or
  relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial
  information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States and Indian Tribes that qualify as Programs that have delegated primary
  Enforcement Authority pursuant to SDWA amendments of 1986.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States and Indian Tribes.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applications are subject to State and area wide clearinghouses review pursuant
  to procedures in the proposed 40 CFR Part 19. The standard application forms,
  as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102,
  must be used for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The grant application must be submitted to the appropriate EPA Regional
  Administrator. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
                                                                                    937
