  No. A-110. The standard application forms, as furnished by the Federal agency      
  and required by OMB Circular No. A-102, must be used for this program. EPA         
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for          
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,         
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 1200 Pennsylvania           
  Avenue, N.W., Mailcode (3903R), Washington, DC 20460 or through the                
  appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.              
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for    
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA. Additional information on the EPA     
  grant package can be found at:                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications are reviewed by the appropriate EPA Regional Office and, if           
  approved, the funds are awarded by the Regional Administrator.                     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  State program plans should be submitted to the appropriate Regional                
  Administrator by the deadline specified (typically June or July). Contact the      
  regional office for application deadlines.                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 60 days.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                             
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.       
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program operates under a formula which uses criteria set forth in the         
  SDWA, Section 1443(b)(4). Except for Indian Tribes, Federal assistance is          
  limited to 75 percent of eligible costs, not to exceed the State allotment. The    
  statistical factors used for allocation include: (1) population of State, based on

  the most recent Census Bureau data; (2) State land area, based on the most         
  recent Census Bureau data; and (3) injection practices by State, based on data

  reported by States and maintained by EPA as of the most recent fiscal year prior   
  to allocation development. For Indian Tribes, Federal assistance is limited to 90  
  percent of eligible costs.                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  The term of the grant shall be determined at the time of grant award.              
Reports:                                                                             
  Annual onsite evaluation (or, if travel funds do not permit, annual phone          
  interview or self-assessment); final financial and progress report as set forth in 
  the grant agreement.                                                               
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each        
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit               
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in     
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, including all documents which support entries on accounting     
  records and substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to          
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be            
  maintained for 3 years from the date of submission of the annual financial status  
  report, or until any audit exceptions have been resolved.                          
                                                                                     
Account Identification:

  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.                                                             
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $10,838,000; FY 08 $10,727,000; and FY 09 est. $10,676,000.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $34,000 to $958,000/fiscal year; $176,000/fiscal year.                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  This program provides funding support to states, territories, and tribes that have 
  delegated primary enforcement authority pursuant to the SDWA amendments of         
  1986. In FY 07 and FY 08, 43 States, Territories, and Tribes had primacy for 36    
  full and seven partial programs. The grant funds are used by the States,           
  Territories, and Tribes to support operation of their ongoing UIC programs         
  including: the development and maintenance of UIC regulations; the                 
  development and maintenance of inventories of injection systems; the               
  development and maintenance of databases housing compliance information on         
  underground injection wells activities; the implementation of UIC permitting       
  activities; and the implementation of enforcement programs to ensure that          
  underground sources of drinking water are protected from endangering injection     
  activities.                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Grants for State Underground Water Source Protection Programs (40 CFR 35);         
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures (40 CFR Part 30).                         


938                                                                            11-08

Regional or Local Office:
  Contact appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Ann Codrington, Prevention Branch, Drinking Water Protection Division, Office
  of Ground Water and Drinking Water, Office of Water, (4606M) Environmental
  Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460.
  Telephone: (202) 564-4688; Fax: (202) 564-3756; E-mail:
  codrington.ann@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/OGWDW/Safewater/UIC.html
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.432, State Public Water System Supervision.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grant funds are used by the States for such purposes as State regulation review,
  program plan developments, data management, inventory of injection facilities,
  identification of aquifers, public participation, technical assistance and review,
  permit approval and enforcement, and surveillance and investigation.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Adequacy of State's annual program plan for an enforceable underground
  injection control program; (2) compliance with requirements of 40 CFR 30 and
  35, and Executive Order No. 12367 (Revised); (3) designation of a State agency
  to receive the grant and be responsible for coordinating the underground water
  source protection program; and (4) evidence that Federal grant funds will not
  supplant the State's nonfederal funding committed to underground water source
  protection efforts. For Indian Tribes: (1) demonstration of Tribal adequacy; and
  (2) demonstration of the tribe's intent, adequate legal authority, and resources to
  implement specific program elements outlined in 40 CFR 144, 145, 146, and
  148.
66.436 SURVEYS, STUDIES, INVESTIGATIONS,
DEMONSTRATIONS, AND TRAINING GRANTS AND
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS - SECTION 104(B)(3) OF
THE CLEAN WATER ACT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104(b)(3), as amended; Public law 95-217, 33 U.S.C.
  1251 et seq; National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), Section 102(2)(F).
OBJECTIVES:
  To support the coordination and acceleration of research, investigations,
  experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, and studies relating to the
  causes, effects (including health and welfare effects), extent, prevention,
  reduction, and elimination of water pollution. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year
  2008: Funding priorities include, but are not limited to, water quality
  improvement, watersheds management, aquatic ecosystem restoration, pollutant
  trading, fish contamination and consumption, nonpoint source management,
  wetlands protection, coastal and estuarine management, treatment technologies,
  water efficiency, and environmental management systems. Funding Priority -
  Fiscal Year 2009: Funding priorities include, but are not limited to, water quality
  improvement, watersheds management, aquatic ecosystem restoration, pollutant
  trading, fish contamination and consumption, nonpoint source management,
  wetlands protection, coastal and estuarine management, treatment technologies,
  water efficiency, and environmental management systems.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable
  direct costs in approved scopes of work plus allowable indirect costs, in
  accordance with established EPA policies and regulations. Funding awarded for
  research does not include research within the purview of EPA's Office of
  Research and Development. The funds will support conducting and promoting
  the coordination and acceleration of research, investigations, experiments,
  training, demonstrations, surveys, and studies relating to the causes, effects
  (including health and welfare effects), extent, prevention, reduction, and
  elimination of water pollution. Specific uses and restrictions on funds will be
  described in detail in the competitive announcements. Assistance agreement
  awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information.
  Further information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by
  viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States, local
  governments, territories, Indian Tribes, and possessions of the U.S. (including
  the District of Columbia); public and private universities and colleges; hospitals;
  laboratories; public or private nonprofit institutions; intertribal consortia; and
  individuals. Nonprofit organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of the
  Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3
  of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not eligible to apply. An intertribal
  consortium must meet the definition of eligibility in the Environmental Program
