  LONG ISLAND SOUND OFFICE, OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL                             
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Clean Water Act, Section 119(d).                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To (1) implement the Long Island Sound Study (LISS) Comprehensive                    
  Conservation and Management Plan (CCMP) and (2) assist the states of                 
  Connecticut and New York, and other public or nonprofit entities in conducting       
  research, experiments, investigations, training, demonstration, surveys, or          
  studies related to reducing pollution and improving the quality of the               
  environment to sustain living resources in Long Island Sound. Funding Priority       
  - Fiscal Year 2008: EPA's funding priority is to award grants that support the       
  Long Island Sound Study (LISS) National Estuary Program. Section 119(d) of           
  the Clean Water Act as amended by the Long Island Sound Restoration Act of           
  2000, Public Law 106-457 authorizes the Administrator to award grants to             
  eligible entities to implement the LISS Comprehensive Conservation and               
  Management Plan (CCMP), with special emphasis on implementation, research            
  and planning, enforcement, and citizen involvement and education projects. The       
  LISS management conference, with participants from state, interstate and             
  regional environmental agencies, local governments and other public or               
  nonprofit private agencies, research institutions and individuals, develops          
  programs to protect and restore Long Island Sound. The LISS program                  
  characterizes the problems in the estuary, determines relationships between          
  pollutant loading and impacts on living resources, maintains a comprehensive         
  plan recommending solutions to priority problems, and implements actions             
  addressing priority problem areas. Activities in FY 08 will focus on six areas       
  identified in the plan as requiring special attention, including: the impact of      
  hypoxia on aquatic life, effects of toxic contamination, pathogen contamination      
  and floatable debris pollution on the living resources and environment of the        
  Sound, the impact of habitat degradation on the health of living resources, land     
  use and development policies and their effect on the ecology, and scientific         
  research in support of these areas as appropriate. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year    
  2009: EPA's funding priority is to award grants that support the Long Island         
  Sound Study (LISS) National Estuary Program. Section 119(d) of the Clean             
  Water Act as amended by the Long Island Sound Restoration Act of 2000,               
  Public Law 106-457 authorizes the Administrator to award grants to eligible          
  entities to implement the LISS Comprehensive Conservation and Management             
  Plan (CCMP), with special emphasis on implementation, research and planning,         
  enforcement, and citizen involvement and education projects. The LISS                
  management conference, with participants from state, interstate and regional         
  environmental agencies, local governments and other public or nonprofit private      
  agencies, research institutions and individuals, develops programs to protect and    
  restore Long Island Sound. The LISS program characterizes the problems in the        
  estuary, determines relationships between pollutant loading and impacts on           
  living resources, maintains a comprehensive plan recommending solutions to           
  priority problems, and implements actions addressing priority problem areas.         
  Activities in FY 09 will focus on six areas identified in the plan as requiring      
  special attention, including: the impact of hypoxia on aquatic life, effects of      
  toxic contamination, pathogen contamination and floatable debris pollution on        
  the living resources and environment of the Sound, the impact of habitat             
  degradation on the health of living resources, land use and development policies     
  and their effect on the ecology, and scientific research in support of these areas   
  as appropriate.                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds may be used to implement elements of the LISS CCMP. Special emphasis           
  shall be give to CCMP implementation projects, research and planning,                
  enforcement, and citizen involvement and education projects. The Administrator       
  may give priority to a distressed community as defined in 33 USC 1269(e)(1).         
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to              
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information         
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State, interstate, and regional water pollution control agencies, and other public   
  or nonprofit private agencies, institutions, and organizations are eligible. Private 
  profit-making entities, and individuals, are not eligible. For certain competitive   
  funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit              
  eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with  
  the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Assistance under this program generally benefits State, interstate, and regional     
  water pollution control agencies and other public or nonprofit private agencies,     
  institutions, and organizations. The general public and Long Island Sound user       
  groups such as swimmers, beach goers, sport and commercial fishermen,                
  boaters, and shellfishes, benefit from the results of the program through cleaner    
  water, restored and protected habitat, and preserved and enhanced ecosystems.        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Nonprofit private agencies, institutions and organizations may be required to        
  provide documentation of their organizational status upon application.               
940                                                                              11-08

Preapplication Coordination:
  The EPA Long Island Sound Office (LISO) issues annual guidance on the form
  and content of pre-proposals. All pre-proposals or work statements should be
  consistent with LISO's guidance. Consultation or technical assistance may be
  available upon request from the LISO to aid applicants is preparing their pre-
  proposal. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to
  competitive funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will
  generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if
  any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For
  additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts"
  or see Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under
  E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant
  should consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in
  his or her State for more information on the process the State requires to be
  followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for
  review. An environmental impact statement or environmental impact assessment
  is not required for this program.
Application Procedure:
  The LISS management conference annually releases a request for pre-proposals
  in the Fall through the LISO. Pre-proposals are due to the LISO generally by
  early January or as specified in guidance. The LISS management committee
  reviews pre-proposals in late January to identify areas of concern and to request
  additional information or clarification on proposals through the LISO. The LISO
  coordinates review of pre-proposals among the several LISS technical work
  groups and teams to ensure consistency with program goals and objectives as
  outlined in the CCMP and other priorities as directed by the management
  committee. If necessary, applicants are contacted by the LISO to provide the
  additional information or clarification. The LISO coordinates review of the
  revised proposals and develops funding recommendations for the management
  committee's consideration in April. The management committee makes final
  recommendations on funding pre-proposals at that time, or as otherwise
  specified. Applicants are advised of the status of their request by the LISO
  within 30 days of the management committee's final decisions. Successful
  applicants are required to submit formal grant applications using the standard
  federal grant application forms. The deadline for submitting applications may
  vary by EPA Region, but is generally July 1. Applications not received by the
  deadline are not further considered for funding. Unallocated funds are carried
  over or otherwise used to further the purposes of this program at the discretion of
  the management committee. Federal grant application forms may be obtained on
  the EPA website, http://www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/index.htm or requested from
  either the EPA Region I or II grants management office as follows: for
  Connecticut, EPA Region I, Grants Management Office, One Congress Street,
  Suite 1100, Boston, MA 02111; for New York, EPA Region II, Grants and
  Contracts Management Branch, 290 Broadway, New York, NY 10007-1866.
  The standard federal grant application forms as required by OMB Circular No.
  A-102 must be used for this program. Applicants may be able to use
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA. The completed grant application should be submitted to the
  appropriate EPA Regional grants management office, with a copy to the LISO to
  assist with processing.
Award Procedure:
  Each federal assistance application and final work plan will be evaluated by the
  LISO to determine the adequacy of the application under LISS priorities and
  objectives, including technical merit and relevance of the project to the
  implementation of the CCMP and for consistency with the pre-application
  proposal. Each federal assistance award application will also be subject to an
  administrative review by the EPA Region I or II grants management office as
  appropriate. Funds are awarded by the EPA Region I or II Administrator as
  appropriate. Grantees will receive a final assistance award package from the
  appropriate EPA Regional grants management office that must be accepted and
  signed by an authorized official of the recipient organization and returned to the
  GMO as specified in the EPA award document. Awards may be made on an
  advance or reimbursement basis. Awards that are not signed and returned by the
  deadline specified in the assistance award document may be subject to
  cancellation. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate
  applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms,
  conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions
  will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing
  assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Requests For Proposals (RFPs) may be announced for several different themes in
  support of Long Island Sound Study Program's goals at different times during
  the year. Contact the EPA LISO for specific annual application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Notification of action on pre-proposals is provided approximately 120 days after
  deadline for pre-proposal submission. Final grantees are notified of approval
  approximately 90 days after the submission of the application for federal
  assistance.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
