  demonstrated record of managing watershed project(s). Eligible activities should    
  be able to show tangible outputs and outcomes within a relatively short time        
  period of two to five years. For implementation grants, candidates must also        
  have a specific water quality monitoring and evaluation plan demonstrating          
  measurable environmental outputs and outcomes, and a strong peer and/or             
  public outreach and education component. EPA has chosen to declare certain          
  projects or activities ineligible for funding. These include activities required or 
  regulated under the CWA. For example, activities for the development of Total       
  Maximum Daily Loads (TMDLs) and Phase II Stormwater projects will not be            
  funded. Activities implementing the non-regulatory component of TMDLs (e.g.,        
  the elements of a watershed plan that address non-point source pollution),          
  however, are eligible. Specific uses and restrictions on funds will be described in 
  detail in the competitive announcements. Assistance agreement awards under          
  this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further               
  information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the         
  following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  States, local governments, public and private nonprofit                             
  institutions/organizations, federally recognized Indian tribal governments, U.S.    
  territories or possessions, and interstate agencies are eligible. For-profit        
  commercial entities and all federal agencies are ineligible. Nonprofit              
  organizations described in Section 501 (c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that     
  engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure    
  Act of 1995 are not eligible. For certain competitive funding opportunities under   
  this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number      
  or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance            
  Agreement Competition Policy.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Anyone/General Public.                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive       
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify    
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be     
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional             
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see      
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.        
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should          
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or  
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in  
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicants will be required to submit a formal grant application. The standard      
  application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB            
  Circular No. A-110 and A-102 must be used for this program. EPA requires            
  final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for application        
  kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and           
  Interagency Agreements Management Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue,               
  N.W., Mail Code 3903R, Washington, DC 20460 or through the appropriate              
  EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Additional                
  information on the EPA grant package can be found at:                               
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. Applicants may be able to           
  use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities   
  under this CFDA.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,       
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated    
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance       
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Prospective grantees may contact the EPA Regional or Headquarters Office for        
  information and to confirm deadlines. Information on deadlines may also be          
  found at http://www.epa.gov/twg.                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Regional or Headquarters review will typically be completed within                  
  approximately 120 - 150 days following the deadline for submissions.                
Appeals:                                                                              
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in               
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal       
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also        
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."      
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients     
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                 
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula. Applicants are required to demonstrate a     
  minimum non-federal match of 25% of the total cost of the project or projects.      
  Match may be cash or in-kind consistent with the regulation governing match         


942                                                                             11-08

  requirements (40 CFR 31.24 or 40 CFR 30.23). Tribes and tribal watershed
  groups may be exempt from this match requirement if they are constrained to
  such an extent that fulfilling the match requirement would impose undue
  economic hardship.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The term of the grant shall be determined at the time of grant award.
Reports:
  Progress report requirements will be a part of each assistance agreement.
  Headquarters issued agreements will normally require quarterly and annual
  reports. A schedule showing interim milestones and the outputs that will be
  completed by the end of the project period will also be included, as will any
  specific requirements included in the assistance agreement. Regionally issued
  agreements will have reporting requirements specific to each region.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained until expiration of three years from the date of submission of the
  final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result
  of an audit, related records should be retained until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $4,000,000; FY 08 $10,000,000; and FY 09 est. $0; National Targeted
  Watersheds Grants Program: FY 08 est. $0; Water Quality Trading: FY 07 est.
  $4,000,000; Western Estuaries Initiative: FY 08 est. $10,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Water Quality Trading: $100,000 to $200,000/fiscal year; $130,000 (Priority I);
  $400,000 to $1,000,000/fiscal year; $600,000 (Priority II); Western Estuaries
  Initiative: $250,000 to $625,000/fiscal year; $437,500/fiscal year (Region 10);
  $500,000 to $1,000,000/fiscal year; $750,000/fiscal year (Region 9).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Targeted Watersheds Grant program builds on the successes of existing
  partnerships that are ready to implement actions to protect critical watersheds. In
  FY 06 and FY 07, EPA received over 130 nominations nation-wide for
  proposals (i.e., those outside the Chesapeake Bay watershed), and selected 15
  watershed organizations and/or coalitions to make on-the-ground improvements
  to water quality. In its first four years, a total of 62 grants for restoration or
  protection activities and 11 cooperative agreements for capacity building
  activities have been awarded. In the next few years, EPA will see environmental
  results such as the return of native fish species, clearer lakes, and increased
  recreational opportunities. In FY 08, EPA is issuing a competitive
  announcement for trading projects located within the six Mississippi River Sub-
  basins to support market-based water quality programs that will potentially
  reduce the size and duration of the hypoxic zone in the Northern Gulf of Mexico.
  In FY 08, EPA is issuing competitive announcements for watershed projects as
  part of the Western Estuaries Initiative to support projects that conserve, restore
  and protect the water quality, habitat and environment of coastal waters,
  estuaries, surrounding basins, bays and near shore waters through
  comprehensive approaches to water quality management.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  For grants and agreements with States, local governments and Indian tribal
  governments, the procedures and requirements should be in conformance with
  40 CFR Part 31 "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments", 40 CFR Part 35,
  "Environmental Program Grants-State, Interstate, and Local Governments
  Agencies" and OMB Circular Nos. A-87 "Cost Principles for State and Local
  Governments" and A-102, "Grants and Cooperative Agreements for States and
  Local Governments." For grants and agreements with other entities the
  procedures should be in conformance with 40 CFR Part 30, "Grants and
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other
  Nonprofit Organizations."
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed below. Region I:
  Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Vermont, New Hampshire;
  Contact: Rob Adler or Gerry Potamis, Telephones: (617) 918-1396 and (617)
  918-1651; E-mails: adler.robert@epa.gov and potamis.gerald@epa.gov
