  respectively. Region II: New Jersey, New York, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin             
  Islands; Contact: Cyndy Kopitsky, Telephone: (212) 637-3844; E-mail:                
  kopitsky.cyndy@epa.gov. Region III: Delaware, Maryland, Pennsylvania,               
  Virginia, West Virginia, Washington, DC; Contact: Ralph Spagnolo, Telephone:        
  (215 814-2718); E-mail: spagnolo.ralph@epa.gov. Region IV: Alabama, Florida,        
  Georgia, Mississippi, North Carolina, South Carolina, Kentucky, Tennessee;          
  Contact: William L. Cox, Telephone: (404) 562-9351; E-mail:                         
  cox.williaml@epa.gov. Region V: Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota, Ohio,       
  Wisconsin; Contact: Paul Thomas, telephone (312) 886-7742; E-mail:                  
  thomas.paul@epa.gov. Region VI: Louisiana, Texas, Oklahoma, Arkansas, New           
  Mexico; Contact: Brad Lamb, Telephone: (214) 665-6683; E-mail                       
  lamb.brad@epa.gov. Region VII: Iowa, Kansas, Missouri, Nebraska; Contact:           
  Jaci Ferguson, Telephone: (417) 575-8028; E-mail: ferguson.jaci@epa.gov.            
  Region VIII: Colorado, Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Utah; Contact:          
  Eric Steinhaus, Telephone: (303) 312-6837, E-mail: steinhaus.eric@epa.gov .         
  Region IX: Arizona, California, Hawaii, Nevada, American Samoa, Mariana             
  Islands, Guam; Contact: Sam Ziegler, Telephone: (415)972-3399; E-mail:              
  ziegler.sam@epa.gov. Region X: Alaska, Idaho, Oregon, Washington; Contact:          
  Bevin Reid, Telephone (206) 553-1566; E-mail: reid.bevin@epa.gov.                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Erin Collard, Office of Wetlands, Oceans, and Watersheds, EPA, Room 7136G,          
  EPA West, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W., Washington DC, 20460.                      
  Telephone: (202) 566-2655. Fax: (202) 566-1326. E-mail:                             
  Collard.Erin@epa.gov.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/twg.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  66.419, Water Pollution Control State, Interstate, and Tribal Program Support;      
  66.454, Water Quality Management Planning.                                          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Grants and cooperative agreements have been awarded to watershed                    
  organizations for watershed restoration and protection projects, such as            
  implementing agricultural best practices, conducting streambank restoration,        
  establishing pollutant credits, and demonstrating innovative nutrient               
  management schemes. All proposals that have been funded are available at            
  http://www.epa.gov/twg.                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA        
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
66.454 WATER QUALITY MANAGEMENT PLANNING                                              
   (205(j)(2))                                                                        
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Clean Water Act, Sections 205(j) and 604(b), as amended, Public Law 97-117;         
  Water Quality Act of 1987, Public Law 100-4.                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist States (including territories and the District of Columbia), Regional     
  Public Comprehensive Planning Organizations (RPCPOs), and Interstate                
  Organizations (IOs) in carrying out water quality management (WQM) planning.        
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Funds were allotted by State in accordance     
  with Section 604(b) of the Clean Water Act. Grant funds are used to determine       
  the nature and extent of point and nonpoint source pollution and to develop         
  management plans to solve them. States are encouraged to give priority to           
  watershed restoration planning. EPA is requesting States to emphasize a             
  watershed approach in developing their State workplans. This will complement        
  the Agency's overall watershed effort as stated in the Agency's Strategic Plan.     
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Funds are allotted by State in accordance      
  with Section 604(b) of the Clean Water Act. Grant funds are used to determine       
  the nature and extent of point and non-point source pollution and to develop        
  water quality management plans to solve them. States are encouraged to give         
  priority to watershed restoration planning. EPA is requesting States to emphasize   
  a watershed approach in EPA is requesting States to emphasize a watershed           
  approach in developing their State workplans. This will complement the              
  Agency's overall watershed effort as stated in the Agency's Strategic Plan.         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Section 604(b) funds are awarded under Section 205(j)(2) to State water quality     
  management agencies to carry out WQM planning. Pursuant to Section 205(j)(3)        
  of the CWA, as amended, States are required to allocate at least 40 percent of      
  funds awarded under 205(j)(2) to eligible RPCPOs and IOs. EPA may approve a         
  State's request to pass through less than 40 percent if, after consultation with its
  RPCPOs and IOs, the Governor determines that pass through of at least 40            
  percent will not: (1) result in significant participation by RPCPOs and IOs in      
  WQM planning; and (2) significantly assist in development and implementation        
  of the state's WQM plan. Assistance agreement awards under this program may         


                                                                                 11-08
  involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State Water Quality Management Agencies.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State Water Quality Management Agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Compliance with 40 CFR 31. Costs will be determined in accordance with
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102, must be used for this program. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review. Neither environmental impact statements nor
  environmental impact assessments are required for activities funded under
  Section 205(j) and 604(b) since these funds are used for water quality planning
  and not implementation.
Application Procedure:
  The grant application must be submitted to the appropriate EPA Regional
  Administrator's Office. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-110. The standard application forms, as furnished by the Federal
  agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102, must be used for this
  program. EPA requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424.
  Requests for application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection
  Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 1200
  Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mailcode (3903R), Washington, DC 20460 or
  through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically
  apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA. Additional information
  on the EPA grant package can be found at:
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm.
Award Procedure:
  Grant applications are reviewed by the appropriate EPA Regional Office and, if
  approved, the funds are awarded by the Regional Administrator.
Deadlines:
  Grant application forms must be submitted according to dates established by the
  Regional Administrators. Contact the appropriate EPA Regional Office for
  application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 45 days.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Each fiscal year, the Administrator shall reserve under Section 604(b) of the
  CWA for each State an amount not to exceed one percent of the amount allotted
  and available for obligation for construction grants or $100,000, whichever is
  greater, for the purposes of making grants to the States to carry out water quality
  management planning. Under Section 205(j)(3), at least 40 percent of a State's
  annual award under 205(j)(2) must be allocated to eligible RPCPOs and IOs,
  unless EPA approves a lesser amount. The program has no matching
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  As determined in accordance with Section 604 (c)(1) of the Clean Water Act
  (CWA). Sums allotted to a State under this section for a fiscal year shall be
  available for obligation by the State during the fiscal year for which sums are
  authorized and during the following fiscal year.
Reports:
  Annual expenditure reports are required.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records kept for 3
                                                                                   943
