  years from date of submission of the annual financial status report. If questions   
  remain, records retained until matter is completely resolved.                       
Account Identification:                                                               
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.                                                              
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 11,080,000; FY 08 $8,607,444; and FY 09 est. $7,665,955.                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $100,000 to $1,500,000/fiscal year; $800,000/fiscal year.                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Section 604(b) funding provides the financial source for States and territories to  
  pursue water quality planning under Section 205(j) of the Clean Water Act           
  accomplishes under this funding program are not quantifiable, but, are used to      
  provide a planned framework for watershed restoration and other water-related       
  implementation activities. In FY 08, 57 State and territorial grants were awarded   
  to support water quality planning activities. Outputs included consistency          
  reviews of NPDES Permits,development of Watershed Management plans, river           
  planning projects and Total Maximum Daily Loads (TMDL) plans.Similar types          
  of planning activities are anticipated for FY 08.                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  EPA General Grant Regulations and Procedures, 40 CFR Part 31 and 40 CFR             
  Part 35, Subpart A.                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Contact appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.       
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Don Kunkoski, Assessment and Watershed Protection Division (4503T), Office          
  of Water, EPA, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20460.                 
  Telephone: (301) 694-7329; Fax: (202) 566-1545; E-mail:                             
  kunkoski.don@epa.gov.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/ow/owow.htm.                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  66.419, Water Pollution Control State, Interstate, and Tribal Program Support.      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Grants are allocated to States for pesticide/ toxic control studies, watershed

                                                                                      
  management plans, basin groundwater management quality standards, urban

                                                                                      
  stormwater management plans, mine water quality management studies, and the         
  development of waste load allocations/total maximum daily loads. Regional           
  Comprehensive Planning Organizations (RCPOs) conduct consistency reviews            
  of NPDES Permits, facility plans, and construction operating permits.               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Funds are awarded to State agencies in accordance with Section 205(j) of the        
  Clean Water Act and EPA program guidance.                                           
                                                                                      
66.456 NATIONAL ESTUARY PROGRAM                                                       
                                                                                      
      (NEP)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                      
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  Clean Water Act, Title III, Section 320, as amended, Public Law 94-117 and

                                                                                      
  Public Law 106-457, 33 U.S.C. 466 et seq.

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

  The National Estuary Program (NEP) objective is to protect and restore estuaries    
  and estuarine watersheds designated by the EPA Administrator as estuaries of        
  national significance. Each NEP characterizes the priority problems in its          
  estuary and surrounding watershed, develops a Comprehensive Conservation            
  and Management Plan listing and describing actions to address those problems,       
  identifies lead entities to carry out each action, and implements the actions.      
  Actions include: restoration of habitat, direct support for TMDL plan               
                                                                                      
  implementation, reducing stormwater and other non-point source impacts, and

                                                                                      
  implementing nutrient reduction strategies. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008:

                                                                                      
  EPA's funding priority is to award assistance agreements that support the 28

                                                                                      
  National Estuary Programs' implementation of their Comprehensive

                                                                                      
  Conservation and Management Plans (CCMPs) to protect and restore estuarine

                                                                                      
  resources. EPA will provide focused support for priority problems identified by

                                                                                      
  NEP management conferences, including problems of nutrient over-enrichment

                                                                                      
  and hypoxic conditions; habitat loss/degradation; stormwater, climate change,

                                                                                      
  toxics, pathogens, and aquatic invasive species impacts; and the need for

                                                                                      
  increased sustainable and green infrastructure best management practices.

                                                                                      
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: EPA's funding priority is to award

                                                                                      
  assistance agreements that support the 28 National Estuary Programs'

                                                                                      
  implementation of their Comprehensive Conservation and Management Plans

                                                                                      
  (CCMPs) to protect and restore estuarine resources. EPA will provide focused

                                                                                      
  support for priority problems identified by NEP management conferences,

                                                                                      
  including problems of nutrient over-enrichment and hypoxic conditions; habitat

                                                                                      
  loss/degradation; stormwater, climate change, and aquatic invasive species

                                                                                      
  impacts; toxics and pathogen impacts; need for outreach and education about

                                                                                      
  priority problems facing the 28 estuaries and their associated watersheds; and

                                                                                      
  the need for increased sustainable and green infrastructure best management

                                                                                      


944                                                                             11-08

  practices.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 320 authorizes issuance of assistance agreements used to meet Section
  320 requirements to develop and implement CCMPs. Annual workplans, which
  address priority actions in the CCMPs, lay out projects to be undertaken during
  the fiscal year. They are developed and approved by each management
  conference. Twenty-eight estuaries have been designated as estuaries of national
  significance, including: Long Island Sound, Puget Sound, Buzzards Bay,
  Narragansett Bay, New York-New Jersey Harbor, Delaware Bay, Delaware
  Inland Bays, Sarasota Bay, Galveston Bay, Santa Monica Bay, Albemarle-
  Pamlico Sounds, San Francisco Estuary, Casco Bay, Massachusetts Bays, Indian
  River Lagoon, Tampa Bay, Peconic Bay, San Juan Bay, Coastal Bend Bays,
  Tillamook Bay, the Barataria-Terrebonne Estuarine Complex, New Hampshire
  Estuaries, Barnegat Bay, Maryland Coastal Bays, Charlotte Harbor, Mobile Bay,
  Morro Bay, and Columbia River Estuary. NEPs carry out such tasks as: (1)
  identifying research needs and conducting research as needed to obtain new data
  to address priority problems; (2) monitoring estuarine conditions to detect
  changes in water quality; and (3) promoting public input into NEP decision-
  making and management processes. Assistance agreement awards under this
  program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information
  regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following
  website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance agreements are issued only to those estuaries designated by the
  Administrator. The Administrator is authorized to make grants to State,
  interstate, and regional water pollution control agencies and entities; State
  coastal zone management agencies; interstate agencies; and other public and
  private nonprofit agencies, institutions, organizations, and individuals (Section
  320(g)(l)). Profit making organizations are not eligible for grants. For certain
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Anyone/General Public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments, OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions, and
  OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication assistance may be obtained from the appropriate EPA Regional
  Office. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to
  competitive funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will
  generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if
  any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For
  additional information contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts"
  or see Appendix IV of the Catalog. All work plans should be developed in
  response to the priority tasks identified in the management conference annual
  work plan. Work plans should also be developed in response to negotiated
  schedules for commitments to meet the purpose of a management conference
  outlined in the Act for the estuary. Each work plan will be considered by the
  appropriate management conference and the EPA Regional program. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102, must be used for this program. EPA requires final
  applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for application kits
  must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and
  Interagency Agreements Management Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue,
  N.W., Mailcode (3903R), Washington, DC 20460 or through the appropriate
  EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Additional
  information on the EPA grant package can be found at:
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. The completed application,
  including the final proposal approved by the estuary management committee,
  should be submitted to the appropriate Regional program office for processing.
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB circular No. A-110.
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  Each application is reviewed by EPA Regional Offices to determine the
  adequacy of the application under grant regulations and National Estuary
  Program objectives, including technical merit and relevance of the project.
  Awards are issued by the EPA Regional Offices after approval by the
  appropriate Division Director. For competitive awards, EPA will review and
  evaluate applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the
