  Safe Water. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Capitalization grants are           
  available to each State for the purpose of establishing a Clean Water SRF for        
  providing assistance for: (1) construction of publicly owned wastewater              
  treatment works; (2) implementing nonpoint source management activities              
  included in State Plans developed pursuant to Section 319; and (3) developing        
  and implementing an estuary comprehensive conservation and management plan           
  under Section 320. The capitalization grant is deposited in the State's SRF,         
  which is used to provide loans and other types of financial assistance, but not      
  grants, to local communities and intermunicipal and interstate agencies. Up to 4     
  percent of the grant amounts may be used by the States for the cost of               
  administering the SRF. States determine priorities for funding within their State    
  in accordance with the CWA. The program supports the Agency's strategic goal         
  of ensuring Clean and Safe Water.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Capitalization grants are available to each State for the purpose of establishing a  
  Clean Water SRF for providing assistance for: (1) construction of publicly           
  owned wastewater treatment works; (2) implementing nonpoint source                   
  management activities included in State Plans developed pursuant to Section          
  319; and (3) developing and implementing an estuary conservation and                 
  management plan under Section 320. The capitalization grant is deposited in the      
  state's SRF, which is used to provide loans and other types of financial             
  assistance, but not grants, to local communities and intermunicipal and interstate   
  agencies. Assistance may be provided to persons for implementing nonpoint            
  source and estuary management activities provided for in State Plans developed       
  under Sections 319 and 320. Up to 4 percent of the grant amounts may be used         
  by the states for the cost of administering the SRF. Assistance agreement awards     
  under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further          
  information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the          
  following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  States and Puerto Rico are eligible to receive capitalization grants under Title     
  VI. The District of Columbia, territories, possessions of the U.S., and Indian       
  tribes are eligible to receive grants from Title VI for the construction of          
  municipal wastewater facilities. (see CFDA 66.418)                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  For loans and other financial assistance (but not grants) for wastewater treatment   
  facilities: local communities, intermunicipal, State, interstate agencies, and       
  Indian tribes. For nonpoint source management programs and estuary activities        
  in approved State Nonpoint Source Management Programs and Comprehensive              
  Conservation and Management Plans: the public agencies listed above,                 
  individuals, and programs.                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  To receive a capitalization grant, a State shall enter into an agreement with the    
  EPA Regional Administrator which shall include, but not be limited to, the 10        
  specifications set forth in Section 602(b) of the CWA. OMB Circular No. A-87,        
  "Cost Principles Applicable to Grants and Contracts with State and Local             
  Governments" applies to State grantees.                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  An applicant (State) should seek preapplication assistance from the appropriate      
  EPA Regional Office. The State is required to prepare and provide for public         
  comment a plan identifying the intended uses of the funds in the SRF (an             
  intended use plan) and how those uses support the goals of the SRF. The plan is      
  to be submitted no later than the application. An environmental impact               
  statement is not required prior to grant award; however, a State environmental       
  review process must be applied to all subsequent state assistance for wastewater     
  facilities. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                  
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult          
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State 
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying    
  for assistance, if the state has selected the program for review.                    
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  The standard application for EPA non-construction grant assistance (SF424-A          
  and B) is submitted to the appropriate EPA Regional Office. Applicants may be        
  able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant          
  opportunities under this CFDA. The State must certify in its application that it     
  has the legal, managerial, technical, and operational capabilities to administer     
  the SRF program competently and that it will comply with Federal anti-               
  discrimination laws and other applicable Federal statutes. Regulation 40 CFR         
  Part 31 applies to the State. Establishment of the SRF is a prerequisite for a       
  grant award.                                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  A grant application is reviewed by the appropriate Regional Office and, if           
  approved, the grant is awarded by the Regional Administrator under a delegation      
  of authority from the Administrator of EPA.                                          
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Applications should be submitted to the appropriate Regional Office no later         
  than July 3 of the year following the year of appropriation to allow sufficient      
  time for review and processing prior to the September 30 reallotment deadline.       


946                                                                              11-08

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval time averages 45 days.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  For those portions of the State program that do not change from year to year, a
  subsequent grant application may incorporate by reference relevant portions of
  the previous year's application which have not changed or an operating
  agreement approved by the region.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Regional Administrator may award capitalization grants from funds
  appropriated for this purpose. Allotments to the States are determined by a table
  of decimal fractions ("formula") in Section 205(c)(3) of the CWA. The required
  State match is 20 percent of the amount of each Federal grant payment.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are available for EPA's obligation to the State during the fiscal year in
  which they are allotted and during the following year. The State must agree to
  enter into binding commitments with recipients to provide financial assistance
  from the SRF in an amount equal to 120 percent of each quarterly grant
  payment. The State is also required to agree to expend all funds in the SRF in an
  expeditious and timely manner.
Reports:
  Beginning the first fiscal year after receiving payments, the State shall provide
  an annual report to the Regional Administrator in accordance with the schedule
  established in the grant agreement (generally not later than 90 days after the end
  of the fiscal year in which the payments were received). The annual report shall
  describe how the State has met the goals and objectives for the preceding fiscal
  year, as identified in its intended use plan, including identification of loan
  recipients, loan amounts, and loan terms and similar details on other forms of
  financial assistance provided from the SRF.
Audits:
  A State must, at a minimum, comply with the provisions of the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996, and the OMB Circular No. A-133 and Compliance
  Supplement. States are also encouraged to conduct annual independent audits.
  State-conducted audits may be performed in conjunction with the Single Audit
  Act. Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by
  the Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector
  General, other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal
  government. Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may
  occur each year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133
  (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  As part of the annual review conducted by the agency to assess the State's
  performance against activities identified in the intended use plan and annual
  report, and to determine compliance with the terms of the capitalization grant
  agreement, the State or loan recipient shall make available to EPA such records
  as the Regional Administrator reasonably requires to review and determine State
  compliance with the requirements of the CWA.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,017,073,535; FY 08 est. $689,070,000; and FY 09 est. $555,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $6,500,000 to $147,000,000/fiscal year; $26,000,000/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Each year, 51 grants are awarded to states and Puerto Rico. The program funds
  an estimated 10 to 20 percent of the nation's annual wastewater capital projects.
  The program has provided over $63 billion in cumulative assistance since 1988.
  Assistance has included funding to prevent polluted runoff, upgrade wastewater
  treatment plants from secondary level treatment to advanced (tertiary) treatment
  to reduce pollutant loads, and improve water quality on a watershed basis.In FY
  07, the program provided $5.3 billion in assistance. This included $2.0 billion
  for secondary treatment to reduce pollutant loads, $889 million to upgrade
  wastewater treatment plants from secondary level treatment to advanced
  (tertiary) treatment, and $243 million to prevent polluted runoff. Similar types
  of activities are anticipated for FY 08.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program guidance was issued January 28, 1988. A State Revolving Fund
  Management Manual was distributed in November, 1988. Regulations include
  40 CFR Part 31 and SRF regulations 40 CFR Part 35, Subpart K which were
  issued in March 1990.
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Sheila Platt, State Revolving Fund Branch, Municipal Support Division,
