  (4204M), Office of Wastewater Management, Environmental Protection                 
  Agency, Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 564-0686; Fax: (202) 501-           
  2403; E-mail: platt.sheila@epa.gov.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/owm/cwfinance/index.htm.                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  State revolving loan fund; wastewater projects involving advanced treatment,       
  secondary treatment, infiltration/inflow correction, replacement/upgrade of pipe   
  and equipment and expansion of existing wastewater treatment plants; nonpoint      
  source and estuary protection projects (for example, septic system rehabilitation, 
  leaking underground storage tank removal, contaminated soil removal,               
  agricultural BMPs, conservation easements, wetlands protection/rehabilitation,     
  and prevention of agricultural runoff).                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Grants are awarded to States that satisfy the requirements outlined in the         
  application procedure section.                                                     
                                                                                     
66.460 NONPOINT SOURCE IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS                                         
                                                                                     
   (319 Program)                                                                     
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Clean Water Act, Title III, Section 319(h).                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assist States, the District of Colombia, American Samoa, Guam, Northern         
  Marianas, Puerto Rico, Pacific Trust Territories, Virgin Islands (hereinafter      
  referred to as States), and qualified Indian Tribes and intertribal consortia in   
  implementing EPA-approved Section 319 nonpoint source management                   
  programs. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: EPA's funding priority is to        
  award grants that promote the development and implementation of watershed-         
  based plans, focusing on watersheds with water quality impairments caused by       
  nonpoint sources, which result in improved water quality in impaired waters.       
  These watershed plans are a mechanism to coordinate monitoring and planning        
  on a watershed basis and will build a foundation for effective implementation      
  actions using federal and other funding. Nonpoint Source implementation            
  projects include best management practice (BMP) installation for animal wastes,    
  sediment, pesticide and fertilizer control, a variety of other structural and non- 
  structural practices, watershed planning, monitoring, watershed coordinators,      
  technology demonstration, and a variety of education/outreach programs, among      
  others. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: EPA's funding priority is to award    
  grants that promote the development and implementation of watershed-based          
  plans, focusing on watersheds with water quality impairments caused by             
  nonpoint sources, which result in improved water quality in impaired waters.       
  These watershed plans are a mechanism to coordinate monitoring and planning        
  on a watershed basis and will build a foundation for effective implementation      
  actions using federal and other funding. Nonpoint Source implementation            
  projects include best management practice (BMP) installation for animal wastes,    
  sediment, pesticide and fertilizer control, a variety of other structural and non- 
  structural practices, watershed planning, monitoring, watershed coordinators,      
  technology demonstration, and a variety of education/outreach programs, among      
  others.                                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds are provided to eligible applicants to carry out nonpoint source projects    
  and programs pursuant to Section 319 of the Clean Water Act as amended by the      
  Water Quality Act of 1987. Requirements under Section 319(h) include:              
  nonfederal matching funds of at least 40 percent of project cost (match is an      
  overall grant requirement in a few cases, the match requirement for an individual  
  project may be waived. In-kind services may be used as match); maintenance of      
  effort; grants may be used for financial assistance to individual persons in the   
  case of demonstration projects only; annual reporting; and EPA determinations      
  of adequate recipient progress before additional funding. Currently applicable     
  EPA guidelines issued on October 23, 2003, identify the basic process and          
  restrictions for funding. These guidelines are available on the Web at:            
  http://www.epa.gov/fedrgstr/EPA-WATER/2003/October/Day-23/w26755.htm.              
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to            
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information       
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  States and qualified Indian Tribes and intertribal consortia. Grants to States are 
  awarded by formula. The State allotment is awarded to a single agency in each      
  State designated by the chief executive as the lead nonpoint source agency. The    
  lead nonpoint source agency may distribute grant funds to other organizations in   
  accordance with its work program, which is approved by EPA. Eligible Tribes        
  are allocated a base allotment by formula; the remaining Tribal portion of the     


                                                                                11-08
  319(h) appropriation is competed among qualified Indian Tribes and intertribal
  consortia. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement
  Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments; interstate and intrastate agencies; federally
  recognized Indian tribal governments; intertribal consortia; the following U.S.
  territory or possessions: the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam,
  Northern Marianas, Puerto Rico, Pacific Trust Territories, Virgin Islands; public
  and private nonprofit organizations and institutions. The lead nonpoint source
  agency may distribute grant funds to other organizations in accordance with a
  work program which is approved by EPA.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The provisions of OMB Circular No. A-87 "Cost Principles for State, Local and
  Indian Tribal Governments" apply.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication coordination with the appropriate EPA Regional Office, listed in
  Appendix IV of the Catalog, is recommended. The standard application forms,
  as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102,
  must be used for this program. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal
  assistance with respect to competitive funding opportunities under this program
  description, EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-
  proposal assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive
  announcement. For additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as
  "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant application by States must be submitted to the appropriate EPA Regional
  Office (refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for a list of Regional Offices). Grant
  applications by subgrantees within a State (after EPA has made a grant award to
  the State) must be submitted to the State agency that administers Section 319
  grants. The list of State nonpoint source contacts for subgrantees is available on
  the Web at http://www.epa.gov/owow/nps/contacts.html. Applicants may be able
  to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  Grant applications must be submitted by the State to the appropriate EPA
  Regional Office to determine the overall adequacy of the application to meet the
  statutory objectives. Funds are awarded to States by formula. Award procedure
  by States to subgrantees varies by State. The list of State nonpoint source
  contacts is available on the Web at http://www.epa.gov/owow/nps/contacts.html.
  Eligible Tribes get a base grant; Tribes compete for the rest of the Tribal portion
  of the total 319(h) appropriation. For competitive awards, EPA will review and
  evaluate applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the
  terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive announcement.
  Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for
  competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  State grant applications must be submitted according to the dates established by
  the EPA Regional Offices. Consult the appropriate EPA Regional Office for
  details. Subgrantee deadlines for applications to state agencies varies by state.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  EPA generally awards grants to States within 60 days after the application is
  submitted.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Nonfederal match of at least 40 percent of project or program costs is required
  except for grants to Indian Tribes, where following demonstration of financial
  hardship, the nonfederal match may be reduced to as low as 10 percent of
  project or program costs. States must also meet maintenance of effort
  requirements contained in statute. EPA awards grants to all eligible States and
  Tribes which apply for funding based on an allocation formula that the Agency
  developed. The allocation formula is described in current operational grant
  guidelines published in a Federal Register notice (68 FR 75776) issued on
  October 23, 2003. The guidelines can be found at
  http://www.epa.gov/fedrgstr/EPA-WATER/2003/October/Day-23/w26755.htm.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
                                                                                    947
