  As determined in accordance with Section 319 (h).                                 
Reports:

  Annual expenditure reports are requested. Progress reports are generally

                                                                                    
  required at least semi-annually.                                                  
Audits:                                                                             
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the    
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,    
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.      
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each       
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,       
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit               
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in     
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that 
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                        
Records:                                                                            
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting       
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to      
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be kept      
  for three years from date of submission of the annual financial status report. If 
  questions remain, records must be retained until the matter is completely         
  resolved.                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.                                                            
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $199,300,000; FY 08 $200,857,000; and FY 09 est. $184,540,000.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  States/Territories: $521,100 to 10,302,300 (FY 08); $3,443,900 (FY 08). Indian    
  Tribes: base grants $30,000 to 50,000; competitive grants up to $150,000 (FY      
  08). Ranges vary year-to-year based on size of appropriation (and also varies     
  depending on number of applicants for grants to Indian Tribes or intertribal      
  consortia).                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Grants have been awarded annually to all States and selected Tribes. Grant        
  funds were used by States and Tribes to implement portions of their NPS           
  management programs. In FY 07 and FY 08, 56 grant awards were made to             
  States and Territories. Additional information regarding selected projects is     
  available in Section 319 Success Stories, available online at                     
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/nps/Success319/. An estimate of load reductions           
  resulting from CWA Section 319(h) funded projects from the time period            
  February 2007 - February 2008 is as follows: nitrogen: 19,079,455 pounds;         
  phosphorus: 7,482,668 pounds; sediment: 3,949,938 tons. These load reduction      
  totals are mostly from FY 07 grant funded projects. Data for FY 08 funded         
  projects is not available at this time.                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Current operational grant guidelines are Nonpoint Source Program and Grants       
  Guidelines for States and Territories (Oct. 23, 2003). The guidelines can be      
  found at http://www.epa.gov/fedrgstr/EPA-WATER/2003/October/Day-                  
  23/w26755.htm.                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Contact the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the          
  Catalog. A list of specific EPA Regional nonpoint source contacts is available    
  on the Web at: http://www.epa.gov/owow/nps/contacts.html. The list of specific    
  EPA Tribal nonpoint source contacts is available on the Web at:                   
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/nps/tribal.                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Andrea Matzke, Nonpoint Source Control Branch, Assessment and Watershed           
  Protection Division, Office of Wetlands, Oceans and Watersheds, (4503T), EPA,     
  Ariel Rios Building, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460.        
  Telephone: (202) 566-1150; Fax: (202) 566-1545; E-mail:                           
  matzke.andrea@epa.gov.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/nps.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  66.419, Water Pollution Control State, Interstate, and Tribal Program Support.    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Nonpoint Source implementation projects funded include best management            
  practice (BMP) installation for animal wastes, sediment, pesticide and fertilizer 
  control, urban runoff, and a variety of other structural and non-structural       
  practices; watershed planning, monitoring, watershed coordinators, technology     
  demonstration, and a variety of education/outreach programs, among others.        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA      
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Funds are          
  awarded to States in accordance with Section 319 (h). For selection processes     
  within individual States, contact the appropriate State NPS coordinators. A list  
  of these coordinators is available at:                                            
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/nps/contacts.html.                                        
                                                                                    


948                                                                           11-08

66.461 REGIONAL WETLAND PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT
GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104(b)(3), as amended, Public Law 92-500, 33 U.S.C.
  1254(b)(3).
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist State, Tribal, local government (S/T/LG) agencies, and
  interstate/intertribal entities in building programs which protect, manage, and
  restore wetlands. The primary focus of the grants is to build state and tribal
  wetland programs. A secondary focus is to build local (e.g. county or municipal)
  programs. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Under the Regional Wetland
  Program Development Grant (WPDG) Competition, EPA has identified the
  following two national program priority areas for improving State/Tribe/local
  governments (S/T/LGs) ability to protect and restore their wetlands: (1)
  Regulation (Enhancing Wetlands Protection), with an emphasis on increasing
  the effectiveness of compensatory mitigation and refining the protection of
  vulnerable waters (this includes promoting a number of different approaches for
  S/T/LGs to use in the development of wetlands protection measures); and (2)
  Monitoring and Assessment, with an emphasis on probabilistic wetland
  condition surveys and wetland mapping, and an overall goal of building the
  capacity of States/Tribes to report on the condition and quantity of their
  wetlands. Regions may add additional Region specific priorities or clarify the
  two national program priorities. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Under the
  Regional Wetland Program Development Grant (WPDG) Competition, EPA has
  identified the following two national program priority areas for improving
  State/Tribe/local governments (S/T/LGs) ability to protect and restore their
  wetlands: (1) Regulation (Enhancing Wetlands Protection), with an emphasis on
  increasing the effectiveness of compensatory mitigation and refining the
  protection of vulnerable waters (this includes promoting a number of different
  approaches for S/T/LGs to use in the development of wetlands protection
  measures); and (2) Monitoring and Assessment, with an emphasis on
  probabilistic wetland condition surveys and wetland mapping, and an overall
  goal of building the capacity of States/Tribes to report on the condition and
  quantity of their wetlands. Regions may add additional Region specific priorities
  or clarify the two national program priorities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  These grants are intended to encourage comprehensive wetlands program
  development by promoting the coordination and acceleration of research,
  investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, and studies
  relating to the causes, effects, extent, prevention, reduction, and elimination of
  water pollution. Projects build the capacity of States, Tribes, and local
  governments to effectively protect wetland and riparian resources. Projects
  funded under this program support the initial development of a wetlands
  protection, restoration, or management program or support
  enhancement/refinement of an existing program. Interstate agency and intertribal
  consortia projects must be broad in scope and encompass more than one State,
  Tribe, or local government. The Regional Office will accept submissions only
  for projects that affect the States, Tribes, and Territories within their Region.
  Funds cannot be used for implementation of individual mitigation projects,
  mitigation banks, or in-lieu-fee mitigation programs. Additional uses and
  restrictions on funds will be described in detail in the competitive
  announcements. Projects that are national in scope are not eligible for funding
  under this Regional program but may be eligible for funding under EPA's
  National Wetland Program Development Grants program (CFDA 66.462).
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, Tribes, local government agencies, interstate agencies, and intertribal
  consortia are eligible to apply to the Regions. Past recipients include, but are not
  limited to, wetland regulatory agencies, water quality agencies (Section 401
  water quality certification), planning offices, wild and scenic rivers agencies,
  departments of transportation, fish and wildlife or natural resources agencies,
  agriculture departments, forestry agencies, coastal zone management agencies,
  park and recreation agencies, non-point source or storm water agencies, and city
  or county and other S/T/LG governmental agencies that conduct wetland-related
  activities. In order to be eligible for WPDG funds, Tribes must be federally
  recognized, although "Treatment as a State" status is not a requirement. The
  term "interstate agency" is defined in CWA Section 502 as "an agency of two or
  more States established by or pursuant to an agreement or compact approved by
  the Congress, or any other agency of two or more States, having substantial
  powers or duties pertaining to the control of pollution as determined and
  approved by the Administrator." Intertribal consortia that meet the requirements
  of 40 CFR Part 35.504 are eligible for direct funding. Intertribal consortia
  projects must be broad in scope and encompass more than one State, Tribe, or
