  999 18th Street, Suite 300, Denver, CO, 80202. Phone: 303-312-6235.                
  truskowski.brent@epa.gov. Region 9 - AZ, CA, HI, NV, AS, GU: Suzanne               
  Marr, US EPA Region 9, 75 Hawthorne Street, San Francisco, CA 94105.               
  Phone: 415-972-3468. marr.suzanne@epa.gov. Region 10 - AK, ID, OR, WA:             
  David Kulman, US EPA Region 10, 1200 Sixth Avenue, Seattle, WA, 98101.             
  Phone: 206-553-6219. kulman.david@epa.gov.                                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Myra Price, EPA Wetlands Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., MC              
  (4502T), Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 566-1225; Fax: (202) 566-          
  1349; E-mail: price.myra@epa.gov.                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/initiative/#financial/.                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  66.462, National Wetland Program Development Grants and Five-Star                  
  Restoration Training Grant; 66.479, Wetland Program Grants - State/Tribal          
  Environmental Outcome Wetland Demonstration Program; 66.419, Water                 
  Pollution Control State, Interstate, and Tribal Program Support; 66.454, Water     
  Quality Management Planning; 66.456, National Estuary Program; 66.458,             
  Capitalization Grants for Clean Water State Revolving Funds.                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  The WPDG database provides project information for grants funded through this      
  program since it began in 1990. http://yosemite.epa.gov/water/grant.nsf.           
  Examples of funded projects include: wetland and stream mitigation studies;        
  development of wetland or watershed conservation plans; wetland management         
  training workshops; developing a monitoring and assessment program;                
  development of wetland monitoring and assessment methods and programs;             
  training for State/Tribal/local government staff in monitoring techniques or       
  wetland science such as delineation; wetland mapping to build 404 permit           
  enforcement programs, wetland inventory and classification projects to             
  determine restoration sites; and database development to track 404 permit action   
  and compliance.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA       
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                     
                                                                                     
66.462 NATIONAL WETLAND PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT                                          
                                                                                     
GRANTS AND FIVE-STAR RESTORATION TRAINING                                            
GRANT                                                                                
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Clean Water Act, Section 104(b)(3), as amended, Public Law 92-500, 33 U.S.C.       
  1254(b)(3).                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assist State, Tribal, local government (S/T/LG) agencies, and                   
  interstate/intertribal entities in building programs which protect, manage, and    
  restore wetlands. The primary focus of the grants is to build state and tribal     
  wetland programs. A secondary focus is to build local (e.g., county or municipal)  
  programs. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: For the National WPDGs: EPA         
  has identified the following three of the five core elements of a comprehensive    
  wetland program: 1) Regulation; 2) Monitoring, Assessment, and Mapping; and        
  3) Restoration as National Priorities for this competition. Further explanation of 
  all of the core areas can be found at the following Web address:                   
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/initiative/fy02elements.html. The Wetlands        
  Program Development Grants (WPDG) program strives to develop                       
  State/Tribal/local government programs that will incorporate each of these         
  elements. For the Five Star Restoration Training Grant: EPA is soliciting          
  proposals from eligible applicants to: 1) prepare and advertise a Request for      
  Proposals (RFP), establish review criteria for evaluating subgrantee proposals,    
  select subgrantees, and make subgrants to support environmental training           
  through voluntary, community/watershed-based wetland restoration projects that     
  provide ecological and socioeconomic benefits to the surrounding communities       
  and their citizens; 2) oversee and monitor subgrantees for completion of the       
  restoration training projects; 3) provide technical support to subgrantees through 
  peer-to-peer outreach to broaden participation in restoration training projects,   
  and 4) qualitatively and quantitatively measure and report on the environmental    
  results of the restoration training projects accomplished through the subgrants.   
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: For the National WPDGs: EPA has               
  identified the following three of the five core elements of a comprehensive        
  wetland program: 1) Regulation; 2) Monitoring, Assessment, and Mapping; and        
  3) Restoration as National Priorities for this competition. Further explanation of 
  all of the core areas can be found at the following Web address:                   
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/initiative/fy02elements.html. The Wetlands        
  Program Development Grants (WPDG) program strives to develop                       
  State/Tribal/local government programs that will incorporate each of these         
  elements.For the Five Star Restoration Training Grant: EPA is soliciting           
  proposals from eligible applicants to: 1) prepare and advertise a Request for      
  Proposals (RFP), establish review criteria for evaluating subgrantee proposals,    
                                                                                     


950                                                                            11-08

  select subgrantees, and make subgrants to support environmental training
  through voluntary, community/watershed-based wetland restoration projects that
  provide ecological and socioeconomic benefits to the surrounding communities
  and their citizens; 2) oversee and monitor subgrantees for completion of the
  restoration training projects; 3) provide technical support to subgrantees through
  peer-to-peer outreach to broaden participation in restoration training projects,
  and 4) qualitatively and quantitatively measure and report on the environmental
  results of the restoration training projects accomplished through the subgrants.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The National WPDGs are intended to encourage comprehensive, national
  wetlands program development by promoting the coordination and acceleration
  of research, investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, and
  studies relating to the causes, effects, extent, prevention, reduction, and
  elimination of water pollution. Projects build the capacity of States, Tribes, and
  local governments programs to effectively protect wetland and riparian
  resources. Activities must help S/T/LGs develop and refine wetland programs.
  Projects funded under this program support the initial development of a national
  wetlands protection, restoration or management program, or support
  enhancement/refinement of an existing national program. Projects must be
  broad in scope and encompass more than one State and/or Tribe and cannot be
  limited to activities that affect such entities in only one EPA region. For
  example, projects and tasks can involve advancing science or collecting and
  making available through publications and other appropriate means, such as
  training on how information about how various wetland programs across the
  nation protect, manage, and restore their wetland resources and about initiatives
  to improve S/T/LG wetland programs. Projects that are local or encompass only
  one EPA Region in scope are not eligible for funding under this program but
  may be eligible for funding under EPA's Regional Wetland Program
  Development Grants program (CFDA 66.461). Funds cannot be used for the
  purchase of land or conservation easements. Funds cannot be used for
  implementation of individual mitigation projects, mitigation banks, or in-lieu-
  fee mitigation programs. Assistance agreement awards under this program may
  involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov. EPA's Five Star Restoration Training Grant is anticipated
  to fund one cooperative agreement to an organization to manage the Five Star
  Restoration Training Grant subaward process that will award subgrants to
  achieve environmental training through voluntary, community/watershed-based
  wetland restoration projects. Projects funded under the subgrant process must
  be limited to activities that conduct or promote the coordination and acceleration
  of training relating to the causes, effects, extent, prevention, reduction, and
  elimination of water pollution. Other activities under section 104(b)(3) will not
  be considered for funding. Funds cannot be used for the purchase of land or
  conservation easements. Funds cannot be used for implementation of individual
  mitigation projects, mitigation banks, or in-lieu-fee mitigation programs.
  Wetland restoration training projects cannot include wetlands constructed for the
  purposes of treating wastewater or stormwater only. The assistance agreement
  award under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information.
  Further information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by
  viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Nonprofit, non-governmental organizations, Interstate agencies, and Intertribal
  consortia which are capable of undertaking activities that advance wetland
  programs on a national basis are eligible to compete in this program. The term
  "interstate agency" is defined in CWA Section 502 as "an agency of two or more
  States established by or pursuant to an agreement or compact approved by the
  Congress, or any other agency of two or more States, having substantial powers
  or duties pertaining to the control of pollution as determined and approved by
  the Administrator." Intertribal consortia must meet the requirements of 40 CFR
  Part 35.504. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement
  Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State, Tribal, and local governments involved in administering wetlands
  protection, restoration, and/or management programs or programs related to or
  complement wetlands protection programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Non-profit applicants may be asked to provide documentation that they meet the
  definition of a non-profit organization in OMB Circular A-122. Interstate
  organizations may be asked to provide a citation to the statutory authority, which
  establishes their status. Intertribal consortia may be asked to provide
  documentation that they meet the requirements of 40 CFR Part 35.504.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular A-102, must be used for this program. Regarding pre-
  application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive funding
  opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify the
