  nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be        
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional            
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.       
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The EPA Headquarters (HQ) Office will conduct the competitive process for          
  awarding National Wetland Program Development Grants. Interested applicants        
  should review information on the National Wetland Program Development              
  Grants at: http://www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/grantguidelines/. Submittal            
  instructions can be found in the competitive announcement.The EPA                  
  Headquarters (HQ) Office will conduct the competitive process for awarding the     
  Five-Star Restoration Training Grant. Interested applicants should review          
  information on the Five-Star Restoration Training Grant at:                        
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/grantguidelines/. Submittal instructions can      
  be found in the competitive announcement.All applicants will be notified by the    
  HQ Office on whether or not the applicant has been selected for funding. The       
  notification is not an authorization to begin performance. The Grant Award         
  document signed by the appropriate grant official in the EPA HQ Office is the      
  authorizing document. Applicants selected for funding must submit a final          
  workplan and grant application forms. Application forms are available at           
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/index.htm and by mail upon request to the            
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division at (202) 564-5305.           
  Completed applications should be submitted to HQ. Applicants may be able to        
  use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities  
  under this CFDA.                                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact the HQ contact for information and to confirm deadlines.                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Grants are usually approved within 4 months of receipt of completed                
  application.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula. The applicant must provide a minimum        
  of 25 percent of the total cost of the workplan to the extent allowed by 40 CFR    
  31.24, 35.385, and 35.615. To determine if the minimum match is met, EPA           
  will use the following formula: amount (in dollars) of federal funds requested     
  from EPA divided by 3 = minimum match (in dollars)or Total project amount          
  (in dollars) divided by 4 = minimum match (in dollars).For example, if the         
  applicant requests $75,000 of federal funds or has a total project cost of         
  $100,000 for a three-year project period, it must be able to provide $25,000 in    
  matching funds or services. A reduced match may be available for Tribal            
  grantees that place the Wetland Program Development Grant funds in a               
  Performance Partnership Grant. (See regulations at 40 CFR 536(c)). States and      
  Tribes can provide a larger share of the project's cost whenever possible (i.e., in
  excess of the required 25 percent of total project costs). Award recipients can    
  meet the match requirements with in-kind or monetary contributions from            
  entities other than themselves. However, other Federal money cannot be used as     
  the match for this grant program unless authorized by the statute governing the    
  award of the other Federal funds. Matching funds are considered grant funds.       
  They must be used for the reasonable and necessary expenses of carrying out the    
  assistance agreement workplan. Any restrictions on the use of grant funds (i.e.,   
  prohibition of land acquisition with grant funds) also apply to the matching       
  funds.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  The terms of the grant shall be determined at time of grant award. The EPA Five    
  Star Restoration Training Grant will be no more than four years in length.         
  Awards under the Five Star Restoration Training Grant Program are made as a        
  single large award with multiple smaller sub-awards.                               
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly interim, final progress, and expenditure reports; program evaluations;   
  and other reports as required by the specific terms of the Agreement.              
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     


                                                                                11-08
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained until expiration of three years from the date of submission of the
  final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result
  of audit, related records should be retained until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304, STAG.
Obligations:
  National Wetlands Program Development Grants: FY 07 $500,000; FY 08
  $600,000; and FY 09 est. $700,000; Five-Star Restoration Training Grant: FY
  08 est. $1,200,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  National Wetlands Program Development Grants: $25,000 to $225,000/fiscal
  year; $100,000/fiscal year; Five-Star Restoration Training Grant: $1,200,000
  every four years; $1,200,000/ every four years.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, 29 proposals were received in response to the National Wetlands
  Program Development Grants competitive announcement released June 25, 2007
  and approximately five (5) grants were awarded to pilot the addition of a
  restoration data layer to the National Wetlands Inventory for two states; provide
  information on vulnerable waters to local governments; build the capacity to
  strengthen and expand state/partner wetland programs; provide support toward
  training on natural resource enterprise development for non-industrial private
  landownwers to promote wetland restoration, and to assess the current practices
  of avoidance and minimization practices across the country. The FY08
  competitive process is still ongoing.In FY 08, EPA issued a competitive
  announcement for the Five-Star Restoration Training Grant to award one
  cooperative agreement for $1,200,000 to organize and manage the Five Star
  Restoration Training Grant subaward process that will undertake projects that
  achieve environmental training through voluntary, community/watershed-based
  wetland restoration projects.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures, 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31, 40 CFR
  35.610, OMB Circular A-122, or OMB Circular A-87, as applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Myra Price, US EPA Wetlands Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, MC
  (4502T), Washington, DC 20460. Phone: (202) 566-1225; FAX: (202) 566-
  1349; e-mail: price.myra@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.461, Regional Wetland Program Development Grants; 66.479, Wetland
  Program Grants - State/Tribal Environmental Outcome Wetland Demonstration
  Program; 66.419, Water Pollution Control State, Interstate, and Tribal Program
  Support; 66.454, Water Quality Management Planning; 66.456, National
  Estuary Program; 66.458, Capitalization Grants for Clean Water State Revolving
  Funds.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Wetland Program Development Grant database will provide project
  information for the National Wetland Program Development Grants
  (http://yosemite.epa.gov/water/grant.nsf). Examples of funded projects include:
  wetland and stream mitigation studies; development of market-based wetland
  protection tools; wetland management training workshops; development of
  wetland modeling tools; studies on the functions and values of wetland
  ecosystems; planning and holding national meetings on CWA Section 404
  mitigation issues; and development of education information on wetlands for
  state/tribal/local government officials and/or the public.For the cooperative
  agreement to be awarded under the Five-Star Restoration Training Grant, EPA
  anticipates funding to organize and manage the Five Star Restoration Training
  Grant subaward process that will bring together citizen groups, corporations,
  youth conservation corps, students, landowners, and government agencies to
  undertake projects that achieve environmental training through voluntary,
  community/watershed-based wetland restoration projects.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
                                                                                     951
