  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
66.463 WATER QUALITY COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS

                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Clean Water Act, Section 104(b)(3), Public Law 92- 500, as amended, 33 U.S.C.       
  1254(b)(3).                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist States, Indian Tribes, interstate agencies, and other public or nonprofit 
  organizations in developing, implementing, and demonstrating innovative             
  approaches relating to the causes, effects, extent, prevention, reduction, and      
  elimination of water pollution through both permitted and non-permitted areas.      
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Funding priorities include, but are not        
  limited to: watershed approaches for solutions to wet weather activities (i.e.,     
  combined sewer overflow, sanitary sewer overflows, storm water discharge, and       
  animal feeding operations); pretreatment and biosolids (sludge) program             
  activities, decentralized systems; and alternative ways to enhance or measure the   
  effectiveness of point source programs. Trading, water efficiency, asset            
  management, and sustainable infrastructure are also areas of consideration. No      
  appropriation authority was provided for FY 2006 or FY 2007. However the            
  above funding priorities will be used if unobligated carryover funds are available  
  in FY 2008. Any awards made with carryover funds will be in accordance with         
  the Agency's competition policy. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Funding       
  priorities include, but are not limited to: watershed approaches for solutions to   
  wet weather activities (i.e., combined sewer overflow, sanitary sewer overflows,    
  storm water discharge, and animal feeding operations); pretreatment and             
  biosolids (sludge) program activities, decentralized systems; and alternative       
  ways to enhance or measure the effectiveness of point source programs. Trading,     
  water efficiency, asset management, and sustainable infrastructure are also areas   
  of consideration. No appropriation authority was provided for FY 2006 or later.     
  However the above funding priorities will be used if unobligated carryover funds    
  are available in FY 2009. Any awards made with carryover funds will be in           
  accordance with the Agency's competition policy.                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  These grants are intended to encourage efforts to improve water quality by          
  promoting the coordination and acceleration of research, investigations,            
  experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, and studies relating to the         
  causes, effects, extent, prevention, reduction, and elimination of water pollution. 
  Projects must attain tangible results. EPA may award grants to fund internships     
  for high school students to work at wastewater treatment plants under the Youth     
  and the Environment sub-program in EPA Regions 1, 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9 and 10.       
  In the case of Regional competitions, eligible projects may be limited in           
  geographic scope to benefit the citizens of States, Tribes, or Territories within   
  those Regions. Other specific uses of funds will be described in Requests for       
  Proposals for this program. EPA will not award grants to fund ongoing State,        
  Tribal, or local program activities, construction, or to purchase land. Assistance  
  agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial             
  information. Further information regarding geospatial information may be            
  obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State water pollution control agencies, interstate agencies, Tribes, colleges and   
  universities, individuals, and other public or nonprofit organizations. For certain 
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency           
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants       
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Individuals and organizations affected by water pollution, including State Water    
  Pollution Control Agencies, interstate agencies, Tribes, colleges and universities, 
  and other public or nonprofit organizations.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Nonprofit applicants may be asked to provide documentation that they meet the       
  definition of a non-profit organization in OMB Circular A-122. Interstate           
  organizations may be asked to provide a citation to the statutory authority which   
  establishes their status. Intertribal consortia must meet the requirements of 40    
  CFR Part 35.504.                                                                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive       
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify    
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be     
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional             
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see      
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.        
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should          
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or  
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in  
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.          


952                                                                             11-08

Application Procedure:
  Competition procedures vary by Region and Headquarters Office. EPA will
  generally publish a Request for Proposals (RFP), evaluate the proposals under
  the criteria contained in the RFP, and requests that selected applicants submit a
  full application. RFPs are synopsized at www.fedgrants.gov, and may be posted
  on Agency websites or in the Federal Register. All competitions will be
  conducted in accordance with EPA policy for competing assistance agreements.
  For Headquarters competitions, applicants submit a proposal, and EPA evaluates
  and scores the proposals and invites selected applicants to submit a formal
  applications. Regional procedures may vary, in accordance with the terms of
  Regional Request for Proposals.Application forms and completed applications
  may be requested from and submitted to the appropriate EPA Headquarters or
  Regional Office. The standard Federal application forms must be used for this
  program. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically
  apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Specific deadlines are established by the terms of the Request for Proposals.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Regional or Headquarters review will normally be done within approximately 60
  days following the deadline for submissions.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The terms of the assistance shall be determined at the time of award.
Reports:
  Progress report requirements will be a part of each assistance agreement.
  Headquarters issued agreements will normally require quarterly and annual
  reports. A schedule showing interim milestones and the outputs and outcomes
  that will be completed by the end of the project period will also be included, as
  will any specific requirements included in the assistance agreement.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Record keeping requirements are specified 40 CFR Parts 30 or 31 as applicable.
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained until expiration of three years from the date of submission of the
  final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result
  of an audit, related records should be retained until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,258,100; FY 08 $500,000; and FY 09 $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Projects typically range from $15,000 to $270,000/fiscal year. The average grant
  awarded by Headquarters is approximately $62,000/fiscal year. The average
  Regional award is approximately $86,000/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  There were a total of eight awards in FY 2007, and two awards pending for FY
  08 to develop methods for utilities to use to quantify environmental benefits and
  costs, to develop a tool to help communities apply the principles and best
  practices of asset management to maintain, upgrade, and operate physical assets
  cost-effectively while protecting public health and safety. Funding was also
  provided to develop nutrient management plans that will eliminate or reduce the
