  quantity of polluted runoff from the land application of animal residuals.           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  For grants and agreements with States, local governments, and Indian tribal          
  governments, the procedures and requirements shall be in conformance with 40         
  CFR Part 31 "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative          
  Agreements to State and Local Governments," 40 CFR Part 35, "Environmental           
  Program Grants-State, Interstate, and Local Governments Agencies," OMB               
  Circular Nos. A-87 "Cost Principles for State and Local Governments," and A-         
  102 "Grants and Cooperative Agreements for States and Local Governments."            
  For grants and agreements with other entities the procedures shall be in             
  conformance with 40 CFR Part 30, "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of         
  Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations," and OMB            
  Circular Nos. A-122 for Non-Profit Organizations and A-21 for Educational            
  Institutions.                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Contact the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the             
  Catalog for information on the grants administration process or the Regional         
  WQCA Coordinator shown at http://epa.gov/owm/mab/indian/104coord.htm.                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Barron Benroth, Office of Wastewater Management (4201M), EPA, Room 7126,             
  EPA East, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue N.W., Washington DC, 20460.                       
  Telephone: (202) 564-0672; Fax: (202) 501-2399; E-mail:                              
  Benroth.Barry@epa.gov.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.epa.gov/owm/cwfinance/index.htm                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  66.419, Water Pollution Control State, Interstate, and Tribal Program Support;       
  66.454, Water Quality Management Planning.                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Development of software tool for preparation of industrial stormwater pollution      
  prevention plan; calculating utility avoided cost and environmental values of        
  urban water efficiency programs; characterizing the quality of effluent and other    
  contributory sources during peak wet weather events; Concentrated Animal             
  Feeding Operations producer outreach and development of a system for                 
  improved poultry manure management; and nonpoint source pollution reduction          
  through water quality trading.                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA         
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                       
                                                                                       
66.466 CHESAPEAKE BAY PROGRAM                                                          
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF WATER, CHESAPEAKE BAY PROGRAM OFFICE (CBPO),                               
  REGION III, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Clean Water Act, Section 117.                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To expand and strengthen cooperative efforts to restore and protect the              
  Chesapeake Bay. EPA's funding priority is to achieve the goals and                   
  commitments established in the Chesapeake 2000 agreement. As a means to              
  achieve the goals and commitments of the historic 1983 Chesapeake Bay                
  Agreement to the current Chesapeake 2000 Agreement, assistance agreements            
  are awarded to: Nonprofit organizations, State and local governments, colleges,      
  universities, and interstate agencies. The type of projects that are awarded range   
  from monitoring of bay toxins to environmental education. Funding Priority -         
  Fiscal Year 2008: The five overarching commitments laid out in the Chesapeake        
  2000 agreement define the funding priorities for the Chesapeake Bay Program.         
  These commitments are: (1) Restore, enhance, and protect the finfish, shellfish,     
  and other living resources; their habitats; and ecological relationships to sustain  
  all fisheries and provide for a balanced ecosystem; (2) Preserve, protect, and       
  restore those habitats and natural areas that are vital to the survival and diversity
  of the living resources of the Bay and its rivers; (3) Achieve and maintain the      
  water quality necessary to support the aquatic living resources of the Bay and its   
  tributaries and to protect human health; (4) Develop, promote, and achieve           
  sound land use practices which protect and restore watershed resources and           
  water quality; maintain reduced pollutant loadings for the Bay and its tributaries;  
  and restore and preserve aquatic living resources; and (5) Promote individual        
  stewardship and assist individuals, community-based organizations, businesses,       
  local governments, and schools to undertake initiatives to achieve the goals and     
  commitments of this agreement. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: The five         
  overarching commitments laid out in the Chesapeake 2000 agreement define the         
  funding priorities for the Chesapeake Bay Program. These commitments are: (1)        
  Restore, enhance, and protect the finfish, shellfish, and other living resources;    
  their habitats; and ecological relationships to sustain all fisheries and provide for
  a balanced ecosystem; (2) Preserve, protect, and restore those habitats and          
  natural areas that are vital to the survival and diversity of the living resources of
  the Bay and its rivers; (3) Achieve and maintain the water quality necessary to      
  support the aquatic living resources of the Bay and its tributaries and to protect   
  human health; (4) Develop, promote, and achieve sound land use practices             


                                                                                  11-08
  which protect and restore watershed resources and water quality; maintain
  reduced pollutant loadings for the Bay and its tributaries; and restore and
  preserve aquatic living resources; and (5) Promote individual stewardship and
  assist individuals, community-based organizations, businesses, local
  governments, and schools to undertake initiatives to achieve the goals and
  commitments of this agreement.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 117 authorizes the Agency to award grants or cooperative agreements to:
  (l) Nonprofit organizations, State and local governments, colleges, universities,
  and interstate agencies as authorized under and in accordance with Section
  117(d)(1), to implement the goals of the Chesapeake Bay Agreement, such as
  activities to support living resources, vital habitat, water quality, sound land use
  protection, restoration, and stewardship community engagement. State agencies
  applying for grants under Section 117(d)(1) must commit to a cost share ranging
  from 5 percent to 50 percent, as determined at the sole discretion of EPA. This
  determination will be made on a grant-by-grant basis and EPA will promptly
  inform the applicant of the selected cost share requirement. All other applicants
  applying for grants under Section 117 must commit to a cost share of 5 percent
  of the total project costs; (2) signatory jurisdictions of the Chesapeake Bay
  Agreement for purposes of implementing the management mechanisms
  established under the Chesapeake Bay Agreement and for the purpose of
  monitoring the Chesapeake Bay ecosystem, as authorized under and in
  accordance with Section 117(e). This section requires a non-federal matching
  funds of at least fifty percent. The Small Watershed Grants Program provides
  small grants to organizations working on a local level to protect and improve
  watersheds in the Chesapeake Bay basin while building citizen based resource
  stewardship, as authorized and in accordance with Section 117(g)(2). This
  section requires a non-federal matching funds of 25 percent. The purpose of the
  Small Watershed Grants Program is to address the water quality and living
  resource needs of the Chesapeake Bay ecosystem. Assistance agreement awards
  under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further
  information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the
  following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Under section 117(d)(1), funds are available for technical assistance and
  assistance grants to nonprofit organizations, State and local governments,
  colleges, universities, and interstate agencies; under section 117(e), funds are
  available for implementation and monitoring grants to signatory jurisdictions;
  and under section 117(g)(2), funds are available for technical assistance and
  assistance grants under the Small Watershed Grants Program to local
  governments and nonprofit organizations and individuals in the Chesapeake Bay
  region. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement
  Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Under section 117(d)(1), funds are available for technical assistance and
  assistance grants to nonprofit organizations, State and local governments,
  colleges, universities, and interstate agencies; under section 117(e), funds are
  available for implementation and monitoring grants to signatory jurisdictions;
  and under Section 117(g)(2), funds are available for technical assistance and
  assistance grants under the Small Watershed Grants Program to local
  governments and nonprofit organizations and individuals in the Chesapeake Bay
  region.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Compliance with 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31, and with Program Grant Guidance to
  matching funds. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No.
  A-87 for State, Local, and Indian Tribal Governments, OMB Circular No. A-122
  for nonprofit organizations, and OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational
  institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. Preapplication assistance is recommended and
  should be obtained from the EPA Region III Grants Management Office. All
  proposals or work statements should be consistent with CBPO's Grant Guidance.
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  RFPs will be announced to request initial proposals to implement specific
  outcomes that will further goals of the Chesapeake 2000 Agreement. Applicants
  may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
                                                                                    953
