  opportunities under this CFDA. Interested parties who would like to receive a       
  copy of issued RFPs and be added to the Environmental Protection Agency's           
  CBPO RFP database should submit their name, address, phone number, and e-           
  mail address (optional) to Veronica Kuczynski at kuczynski.veronica@epa.gov.        
  Mailing address is Environmental Protection Agency, CBPO, Grants Office, 410        
  Severn Ave., Suite 109, Annapolis, MD 21403. EPA will only accept addresses         
  provided in writing (e-mail or letter); no phone calls. Interested parties applying 
  for a grant under the Small Watershed Grants Program should submit their name       
  and address to the National Fish and Wildlife Foundation 1120 Connecticut           
  Avenue, NW, Suite 900, Washington, DC 20026, for purpose of establishing a          
  database to receive RFPs. National Fish and Wildlife Foundation will list the       
  RFP on their website: www.NFWF.org. Application kits may be requested from          
  EPA CBPO, 410 Severn Avenue, Suite 109, Annapolis, MD 21403. The                    
  completed application, including the final proposal, should be submitted to EPA     
  Region III Grants Management Office, 1650 Arch Street, Philadelphia,                
  Pennsylvania 19103 with a copy to CBPO in Annapolis for processing. The             
  standard application forms, as furnished by the Federal agency and required by      
  OMB Circular No. A-102, must be used for this program.                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,       
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated    
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance       
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Proposals are received when an Request for Proposal (RFP) is issued, usually in     
  the spring/summer time frame. CBPO will post the RFP on its website                 
  http://www.epa.gov/region03/Chesapeake/grants.htm. Application deadlines will       
  be provided in the RFP.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 7 months after deadline for application submission.                   
Appeals:                                                                              
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in               
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal       
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also        
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."      
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients     
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                 
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals are subject to approval of EPA.                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula. Under Section 117 (e), State agencies        
  applying for implementation and monitoring grants must identify 50 percent cost     
  share of total project costs (equal match/dollar for dollar). State agencies        
  applying for grants under Section 117 (d)(1), must commit to a cost share           
  ranging from 5 percent to 50 percent as determined at the sole discretion of        
  EPA. This determination will be made on a grant-by-grant basis and EPA will         
  promptly inform the applicant of the selected cost share requirement. All other     
  applicants applying for grants under Section 117 must commit to a cost share of     
  5 percent of the total project costs. Applicants applying for Small Watershed       
  Grants Program under Section 117(g)(2) must commit to a cost share of 25            
  percent of the total project cost. State and local governments receiving assistance 
  under any of the provisions of Section 117 must comply with 40 CFR 31.24 and        
  all other applicants must comply with 40 CFR 30.23. In addition to the cost         
  share requirement, applicants must adhere to the requirement in the Clean Water     
  Act, Section 117 - "Administrative Costs." This section requires a 10 percent       
  cap for administrative costs. The cost of salaries and fringe benefits incurred in  
  administering the grant cannot exceed 10 percent of the Federal grant amount.       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Grants are normally funded on a 12-month basis. The term of the grant shall be

  determined at the time of grant award.                                              
Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly, semi-annual, and final progress and expenditure reports; program

  evaluation; and other reports as required by the specific terms of the Agreement    
  and EPA Order 5700.7, Environmental Results under EPA Assistance

  Agreements. Financial Status Reports must be submitted.                             
Audits:                                                                               
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the      
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,      
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.        
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each         
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,         
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in      
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting         
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to        


954                                                                             11-08

  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained for three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure
  report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related
  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304; EPM.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $14,154,594; FY 08 $24,844,000; and FY 09 $29,001,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $5,000 to $7,800,000/fiscal year; $3,902,500/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FYs 07 and 08, CBPO issued two RFPs. CBPO received 4 proposals and two
  awards are pending to date. FY 07 and 08 activities included: communications,
  outreach, and education activities to support the staffing and operations of the
  Bay Program Communication Office; implementation of state tributary
  strategies to reduce nutrients and sediments to improve water quality; continued
  technical support and outreach to address water quality restoration goals and
  maintain public awareness of Bay restoration; investigate the nitrogen reduction
  efficiency and cost effectiveness of nitrogen reducing septic systems within the
  mid-Atlantic region; evaluation of the impact of phosphorus species on water
  quality and plant growth; NPDES data synthesis and field monitoring to better
  estimate loadings of toxics (metals, organics) to Chesapeake Bay through storm
  water; Chesapeake Bay modeling, GIS and data analyses support, WQ data
  analysis/integration support, and nonpoint and point source data
  management/analysis. In FY 07, CBPO issued one RFP for Submerged Aquatic
  Vegetation (SAV) Annual Aerial Survey. CBPO received one proposal and one
  award is pending. In FY 08, CBPO issued one RFP for the Development and
  Implementation of a Chesapeake Bay Innovative Nutrient and Sediment
  Reduction Program CBPO received three proposals and one award is pending.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Chesapeake Bay Program Office's Annual Grant Guidance and general
  regulations (40 CFR Parts 30 and 31) for assistance programs available from
  EPA.
Regional or Local Office:
  Veronica Kuczynski, EPA Chesapeake Bay Program Office, 410 Severn
  Avenue, Suite 109, Annapolis, MD 21403. Telephone: (410) 267-5743; Fax:
  (410) 267-5777; E-mail: kuczynski.veronica@epa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/region03/chesapeake.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.419, Water Pollution Control State, Interstate, and Tribal Program Support;
  66.454, Water Quality Management Planning; 66.460, Nonpoint Source
  Implementation Grants; 66.439 Targeted Watersheds Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements awarded to States and local governments,
  colleges, universities interstate agencies, and nonprofit organizations are for
  nonpoint source implementation, water quality monitoring, education and
  outreach, living resources and habitat restoration, and program support.
  Examples of funded projects include: (1) enhanced storm water monitoring; (2)
  communications, outreach, and public education efforts; (3) computer modeling
  of different population levels of menhaden for multi-species management and
  potential impact on water quality; (4) nonpoint source pollution programs; and
  (5) Chesapeake Bay point source data management.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.
66.467 WASTEWATER OPERATOR TRAINING GRANT
PROGRAM (TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE)
   (Wastewater O&M Onsite Technical Assistance Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Water Pollution Control Act, Section 104(g)(1), as amended, 33 U.S.C.
  1251 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To substantially enhance the proficiency of personnel engaged in the operations
  and maintenance of treatment works and related activities by financing pilot
  programs. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year(FY) 2008: No funds were appropriated
  in FY 2008. Available FY 2007 grant funds will primarily be used for on-site
  technical assistance to address the unique performance limiting conditions of the
  plants. Classroom training may also be provided, on a limited basis when cost
  effective, to improve the skills of wastewater treatment plant operator. Funding
  Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Grant funds, if available, will primarily be used for
  on-site technical assistance to address the unique performance limiting
  conditions of the plants. Classroom training may also be provided, on a limited
