  basis when cost effective, to improve the skills of wastewater treatment plant     
  operator.                                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Assistance is available to support recipients' allowable direct costs incidental to
  approved scopes of work plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with          
  established EPA policies and regulations.                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  State agencies or the designated organizations of the States, the District of      
  Columbia, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Guam, Northern Marianas, America            
  Samoa, the Trust Territories, and Native American Indian Tribes. Additionally,     
  institutions of higher education and "not for profit institutions" may also apply  
  for funding if acting as a designated organization of the State.                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State, Tribal, and local governments and publicly owned treatment works.           
  Activities which contribute to Operation and Maintenance (O&M)                     
  improvements at publicly owned treatment works, including pollution                
  prevention activities, may be funded. Legislative history supports using           
  appropriations for onsite O&M technical assistance to the small sized publicly     
  owned treatment work (POTWs) of less than 5 million gallons per day (MGD) of       
  wastewater flow, since many of these POTWs are exhibiting performance              
  problems and do not have readily available consultant's technical assistance like  
  those of the larger POTWs.                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with applicable OMB Circular No. A-         
  87, Cost Principles for State and local governments. Non-profit applicants may     
  be asked to provide documentation that they meet the definition of a non-profit    
  organization in OMB Circular A-122. Tribes may be asked to demonstrate that        
  they are Federally recognized.                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The standard EPA application assistance forms must be used for this program.       
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-102 Uniform        
  Administration Requirements for Grant-in-Aid to State and Local Government.        
  Request for application forms and completed applications must be submitted to      
  the applicable Regional or Headquarters Grants Administration office.              
  Applications must meet the requirements of the grant regulations and must be       
  reviewed and approved by the appropriate Regional or Headquarters' waste           
  management program office prior to approval by the Grants office. The review       
  must include an administrative and technical evaluation to determine adequacy,     
  merit, and relevance of the proposal. Applicants may be able to use                
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities      
  under this CFDA.                                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  An application is reviewed by the appropriate EPA Regional Office and, if          
  approved, is signed by the Regional Administrator or designated Division           
  Director.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Historically, annual fiscal year funds have been appropriated by Congress, and     
  are generally available in January to the Headquarters wastewater management       
  program office so that the program office can fund applicants before the end of    
  the fiscal year. Applicants should ensure that its application and reviews meet    
  this funding deadline. Contact the appropriate Regional Office for application     
  deadlines.                                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Generally, 90 days after the grant application is received by EPA.                 
Appeals:                                                                             
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.       
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula. Generally 25 percent in kind                
  service/goods or matching funds is required; however, this provision may be

  waived in certain cases.

                                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Grants may be awarded for a project period not to exceed 3 years. The term of      
  the grant shall be determined at the time of grant award.                          
Reports:

  Quarterly progress and final reports, annual expenditure reports, and other        
  reports as specified by the Assistance Agreement must be provided to the           
  appropriate Regional or Headquarters wastewater management program office.         
  Headquarters receives semi-annual status reports, and an annual data submission    
  of the program's progress for the current fiscal year, from all Regional Offices.  
Audits:                                                                              


                                                                                11-08
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records and other records which substantiate the reasonable and
  allocable charges must be available to personnel authorized to examine EPA
  grant accounts. All records must be maintained for three years from the date of
  submission of the annual financial status reports. If questions arise, related
  records must be retained until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1828,100; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est. $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  A State receives approximately $30,000/fiscal year to provide funds to onsite
  technical assistance providers. The range and average of financial assistance
  provided is: $12,000 to $40,000/fiscal year; $25,000/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Approximately 46 states and state environmental training centers receive grants
  to provide on-site technical assistance to needy small POTWs (capacity less that
  5 MGD) to assist them in achieving or maintaining compliance, or improving
  plant performance. There are over 15,000 POTWs in the nation of which about
  14,000 have capacity less than 5 MGD. In 2007, with a funding level of $1.182
  million, 586 small wastewater treatment facilities received technical assistance
  which resulted in the prevention of more than four million pounds of pollutants
  from entering into the nation's surface waters. Results for 2008 are not currently
  available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Applicants for technical assistance should review 40 CFR Part 30, the General
  Grant Regulations and Procedures, and the annual guidance produced by the
  Headquarters wastewater program office.
Regional or Local Office:
  See EPA Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or online for
  additional information.
Headquarters Office:
  Kellie Kubena, Acting Branch Chief, Municipal Assistance Branch (4204-M),
  Office of Wastewater Management, EPA East, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue,
  N.W., Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 566-0448; Fax: (202) 501-
  2396; E-mail: kubena.kellie@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/owm/mab/smcomm/104g/index.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of funded projects include: diagnostic and energy/water use
  evaluations at small POTWs; POTW-State technical assistance plans,
  agreements, and schedules for achieving improvements; technical assistance to
  communities on plant operations, maintenance, laboratory management, solids
  handling and disposal, facility management, financial management, pollution
  prevention, energy saving, and water use; follow-up visits to monitor
  improvements; and on-site performance summaries.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  On-site wastewater O&M technical applications managed by the Regions are
  evaluated based on the Headquarters wastewater program office's annual
  guidance, as well as EPA's grants management-related guidance. Other pilot
  program proposals, with similar objectives, will be considered by the Regional
  and Headquarters wastewater program offices based on the merits of the
  proposal, and prior designation by the applicable State agency(s) to receive these
  funds. Project objectives and requirements for applicants for other pilot project
  funding will be negotiated on a case-by-case basis.
66.468 CAPITALIZATION GRANTS FOR DRINKING
WATER STATE REVOLVING FUNDS
   (Drinking Water State Revolving Fund)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF GROUND WATER AND DRINKING WATER,
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) Amendments of 1996, Section 130, Public
  Law 104-182.
                                                                                  955
