OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  Grants are made to States and Puerto Rico to capitalize their Drinking Water        
  State Revolving Funds (DWSRFs) which will provide a long-term source of             
  financing for the costs of drinking water infrastructure. Grants are also made to   
  the District of Columbia, U.S. Territories (Virgin Islands, Mariana Islands         
  American Samoa, and Guam), and Indian Tribes. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year        
  2008: The funding priority established by the SDWA are for infrastructure           
  improvement projects that are needed to achieve or maintain compliance with         
  SDWA requirements, protect public health, and assist systems with economic          
  need. A State may use a portion of the grant funds for programs that emphasize      
  preventing contamination problems through source water protection and               
  enhancing water system management. States and EPA Regions determine                 
  priorities for funding in accordance with SDWA. The program supports the            
  Agency's strategic goal of ensuring clean and safe water. Funding Priority -        
  Fiscal Year 2009: The funding priority established by the SDWA are for              
  infrastructure improvement projects that are needed to achieve or maintain          
  compliance with SDWA requirements, protect public health, and assist systems        
  with economic need. A State may use a portion of the grant funds for programs       
  that emphasize preventing contamination problems through source water               
  protection and enhancing water system management. States and EPA Regions            
  determine priorities for funding in accordance with SDWA. The program               
  supports the Agency's strategic goal of ensuring clean and safe water.              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Capitalization grants are made available to each State and Puerto Rico for the      
  purpose of establishing a DWSRF for providing assistance to drinking water          
  systems for infrastructure improvements. The capitalization grant is deposited in   
  the State's DWSRF, and is used to provide loans and other types of financial        
  assistance to eligible public water systems. A State may elect to use up to 31%     
  of the capitalization grant for other eligible activities, including 4% for         
  administration of the program. States may also elect to transfer up to one-third of 
  the DWSRF capitalization grant to the Clean Water State Revolving Fund              
  (CWSRF) or an equivalent amount from the CWSRF to the DWSRF program.                
  Grants are also made available to Federally Recognized Indian Tribal                
  Governments, U.S Territories, and the District of Columbia. Assistance              
  agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial             
  information. Further information regarding geospatial information may be            
  obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  States, the District of Columbia, U.S. Territories or Possessions (the              
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Mariana Islands American               
  Samoa, and Guam), and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments are            
  eligible for grants from the program. For certain competitive funding               
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to      
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the            
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  States, U.S. Territories or Possessions (the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,           
  Virgin Islands, Mariana Islands American Samoa, and Guam), Federally                
  Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, local, and intrastate.                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  To receive a grant, an applicant enters into an agreement with the EPA Regional     
  Administrator which shall include, but are not limited to, the requirements set     
  forth in Section 130 of the SDWA. Recipients must follow OMB Circular No.           
  A-87, "Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments."             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  States are required to prepare and provide for public comment on a plan             
  identifying the intended uses (Intended Use Plan, or IUP) of the funds in the       
  DWSRF and how those uses support the goals of the DWSRF. The IUP is to be           
  submitted no later than the application. An environmental impact statement is       
  not required prior to grant award; however, a State environmental review process    
  must be applied to all subsequent State assistance for drinking water systems.      
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive       
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify    
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be     
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional             
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see      
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.        
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should          
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or  
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in  
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required      
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. EPA requires final         
  applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for application kits         
  must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and                
  Interagency Agreements Management Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue,               
  N.W., Mailcode 3903R, Washington, DC 20460 or through the appropriate               


956                                                                             11-08

  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Additional information on
  the EPA grant package can be found at:
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. Grants for Tribes, U.S.
  Territories, and the District of Columbia are selected based on funding priorities
  established by EPA Regional Offices. States must certify that they have the legal
  authority to receive a capitalization grant and that they have the legal authority
  to operate the program. States must provide assurance in their applications that
  they have the legal, managerial, technical and operational capabilities to
  administer the DWSRF program competently and that they will comply with all
  applicable Federal cross-cutting authorities and Federal statutes. Applicants may
  be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  A grant application is reviewed by the appropriate Regional Office, and if
  approved, the grant is awarded by the Regional Administrator under a delegation
  of authority from the Administrator of EPA. EPA Headquarters retains the
  authority to review certain applications or parts thereof. For competitive awards,
  EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals, and/or submissions in
  accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive
  announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA
  policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Applications should be submitted to the appropriate Regional Office no later
  than June 30 of the year following the year of appropriation to allow sufficient
  time for review and processing prior to the September 30 reallotment deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval time averages 45 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  For those portions of the applicant's program that do not change from year to
  year, a subsequent grant application may incorporate by reference relevant
  portions of the previous year's application which have not changed.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The funds available for allotment to State DWSRF programs are those funds
  appropriated by Congress under the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA 1452; 40
  CFR 35.3540-35.3585). EPA allots funds to each State based on the State's
  proportional share of total eligible needs reported for the most recent Drinking
  Water Infrastructure Needs Survey (which is conducted every four years). The
  minimum proportional share that each State can receive is 1% of total funds
  available to States. EPA reserves up to 0.33 percent of the funds available for
  allotment to the States to provide grants to the U.S. Territories (Virgin Islands,
  Mariana Islands American Samoa, and Guam). The SDWA also requires the
  Administrator to reserve 1 percent of the funds available for allotment to the
  States to provide grants to the District of Columbia. The SDWA also allows
  EPA to reserve funds for national set-asides that include: up to 1.5 percent of the
  national appropriation for grants to Indian Tribes, and funding for health effects
  studies, small system technical assistance, and monitoring of unregulated
  contaminants. The required State match is 20 percent of the amount of the
  capitalization made to the State. States must also provide a match or
  demonstrate a credit for state funded eligible activities to receive Federal funds
  for certain program support activities. For additional information go to
  http://www.epa.gov/safewater/dwsrf/allotments/index.html.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are available for obligation during the fiscal year in which they are
  allotted and during the following year. The term of the grant shall be determined
  at the time of award. States must agree to enter into binding commitments with
  loan recipients to provide financial assistance from the DWSRF in an amount
  equal to the sum of Federal assistance, less amounts used by the State for
  eligible set-aside purposes, and the State match. States are also required to agree
  to commit and expend all funds in the DWSRF as efficiently as possible, and in
  a timely manner.
Reports:
  States shall provide biennial reports to the Regional Administrator in accordance
  with the schedule established in the grant agreement (generally not later than 90
  days after the end of the second fiscal year during which the payments were
  received). The biennial report shall describe how the State has met the goals and
  objectives for the preceding two fiscal years as identified in its intended use
  plans for those periods, including identification of loan recipients, loan amounts,
  and loan terms and similar details on other forms of financial assistance
  provided from the DWSRF. For grants to Tribes and U.S. Territories, procedures
  for accounting, auditing, evaluating, and reviewing any program for activities in
  whole or in part shall be governed by regulations at 40 CFR Parts 31 and 35,
  "Environmental Program Grants for Tribes," with reports as required by the
  specific terms of the agreement.
