Audits:                                                                                
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the       
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,       
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.         
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each          
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,

  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit

                                                                                       
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in

  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in OMB Circular No. A-133. States must comply with the provisions of the             
  Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, and the OMB Circular No. A-133 and              
  Compliance Supplement. States are also encouraged to conduct annual                  
  independent audits. The audit of the fund to be prepared by the State or an          
  independent auditor must be in accordance with the standards of the                  
  Government Accountability Office (known as the Generally Accepted                    
  Government Auditing Standards). To the extent that the set-asides are used for       
  project purposes that must be repaid, or are directly related to the DWSRF (e.g.,    
  administration) or are revolving funds themselves, they must be part of an           
  audited opinion(s). The audits must provide an auditor's opinion on the DWSRF        
  financial statements, a report on internal controls and a report on compliance       
  with laws and regulations. Those set-aside funds that are not loaned out may be      
  audited in conjunction with audits conducted under the Single Audit Act, as          
  described in OMB Circular No. A-133 and OMB's Compliance Supplement for              
  Single Audits of State and Local Governments.                                        
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting          
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to         
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be              
  maintained for three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure      
  report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related
  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved. As part of the   
  annual review conducted by the Agency to assess a State's performance against        
  activities identified in the intended use plan and biennial report, and to           
  determine compliance with the terms of the capitalization grant agreement, the       
  State or assistance recipient shall make available to EPA such records as the        
  Regional Administrator reasonably requires to review and determine State             
  compliance with the requirements of the SDWA.                                        
Account Identification:                                                                
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.                                                               
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $788,194,200; FY 08 $829,029,000; and FY 09 est. $838,167,000.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  States: $8,146,000 to $66,424,000/fiscal year; $16,105,000/fiscal year. Tribes:      
  $4,000 to $1,600,000/fiscal year; $320,000/fiscal year. Territories: $249,200 to     
  $8,229,300/fiscal year; $2,189,000/fiscal year.                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  All 50 States and Puerto Rico have established and are implementing DWSRF            
  programs through receipt of a capitalization grant. In FY 07, States made 578        
  loans to systems for a total of $1.6 billion dollars to conduct infrastructure       
  improvement projects. Of the total number of loans, 72 percent went to small         
  water systems that serve 10,000 persons or fewer. States also used funds to          
  prevent drinking water contamination through source water protection and             
  enhanced system management. In FY 07 and in FY 08, four awards were made             
  to Territories and 38 awards were made to Tribes to conduct infrastructure           
  improvement projects that are needed to achieve or maintain compliance with          
  SDWA requirements. In FY 09, States, Tribes, and Territories will continue to        
  receive funding to support infrastructure improvement projects.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  EPA Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative                   
  Agreements to State and Local Governments (40 CFR Part 31) and Drinking              
  Water State Revolving Funds (40 CFR Part 35, Subpart L). Additional program          
  information, including contact information for State program managers, is            
  available online at http://www.epa.gov/safewater/dwsrf.html.                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See EPA Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, or online.            
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Peter Shanaghan, Infrastructure Branch (4606M), Drinking Water Protection            
  Division, Office of Groundwater and Drinking Water, Environmental Protection         
  Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460. Telephone:             
  (202) 564-3848; Fax: (202) 564-1836; E-mail: shanaghan.peter@epa.gov.                
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.epa.gov/safewater/dwsrf.html.                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  66.458, Capitalization Grants for Clean Water State Revolving Funds.                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Drinking water projects addressing treatment, storage, source, transmission,         
  distribution and consolidation. Some examples of projects include: construction      
  of a ultra-violet treatment facility; construction of pumping stations; upgrades of  


                                                                                  11-08
  water treatment plant; line replacement; and new wells to replace wells that have
  been contaminated.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.
66.469 GREAT LAKES PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF WATER, GREAT LAKES NATIONAL PROGRAM OFFICE,
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Sections 104 and 118, 33 U.S.C.1254; National
  Environmental Policy Act, Section 102(2)(F).
OBJECTIVES:
  To restore and maintain the chemical, physical, and biological integrity of the
  Great Lakes Basin Ecosystem. The Great Lakes National Program Office
  (GLNPO), in concert with EPA Regions 2, 3, and 5, leads a consortium of
  programs, agencies, and public and private institutions in attaining specific
  objectives and actions that will reduce contaminants, restore habitat, and protect
  the living resources of the basin. EPA and its partners will use the Great Lakes
  Regional Collaboration's strategy as a guide in activities supporting the Great
  Lakes Water Quality Agreement goal of restoring the chemical, physical, and
  biological integrity of the waters of the Great Lakes Basin Ecosystem. See
  http://www.glrc.us/strategy.html. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: (1)
  Remediation of contaminated sediments, including (a) sediment assessments; (b)
  evaluations of remedial alternatives; and (c) source identification/source control.
  (2) Pollution prevention, reduction, or elimination with an emphasis on
  substances which are persistent and toxic, especially those which bioaccumulate,
  in the Great Lakes basin. (3) Habitat (Ecological) Protection and Restoration,
  including demonstration of practices and tools for protecting and restoring
  aquatic, terrestrial, and wetland ecosystems. (4) Invasive (non-indigenous)
  aquatic and terrestrial species in the Great Lakes Basin, with an emphasis on
  prevention. (5) Strategic or emerging issues of basin-wide importance, including
  projects which: address assessment, causes, and/or effects of chemical or
  biological pollutants not in the regulatory mainstream; cut across or overlap two
  or more of the foregoing areas; support conferences regarding the Great Lakes
  Water Quality Agreement; address issues pursuant to the Great Lakes Executive
  Order or the Regional Collaboration; or address some other unanticipated area.
  (6) Lakewide Management Plan and Remedial Action Plan implementation and
  development, including de-listing of Areas of Concern and Beneficial Use
  Impairments. (7) Environmental protections related to Lake St. Clair. (8)
  Strategic Human Health issues. (9) Various aspects of Great Lakes monitoring
  including fish contaminants, atmospheric deposition, biology, and open water
  toxics. (10) Projects addressing contaminated sediments in Areas of Concern
  pursuant to the Great Lakes Legacy Act. Under the Legacy Act, EPA typically
  funds large projects in Areas of Concern using Project Agreements (not grants)
  and requiring a minimum 35 percent non-federal match. Funding Priority -
  Fiscal Year 2009: (1) Remediation of contaminated sediments, including (a)
  sediment assessments; (b) evaluations of remedial alternatives; and (c) source
  identification/source control. (2) Pollution prevention, reduction, or elimination
  with an emphasis on substances which are persistent and toxic, especially those
  which bioaccumulate, in the Great Lakes basin. (3) Habitat (Ecological)
  Protection and Restoration, including demonstration of practices and tools for
  protecting and restoring aquatic, terrestrial, and wetland ecosystems. (4) Invasive
  (non-indigenous) aquatic and terrestrial species in the Great Lakes Basin, with
  an emphasis on prevention. (5) Strategic or emerging issues of basin-wide
  importance, including projects which: address assessment, causes, and/or effects
  of chemical or biological pollutants not in the regulatory mainstream; cut across
  or overlap two or more of the foregoing areas; support conferences regarding the
  Great Lakes Water Quality Agreement; address issues pursuant to the Great
  Lakes Executive Order or the Regional Collaboration; or address some other
  unanticipated area. (6) Lakewide Management Plan and Remedial Action Plan
  implementation and development, including de-listing of Areas of Concern and
  Beneficial Use Impairments. (7) Environmental protection related to Lake St.
  Clair. (8) Strategic Human Health issues. (9) Various aspects of Great Lakes
  monitoring including
  fishcontaminants, atmospheric deposition, biology, and open water toxics. (10)
  Projects addressing contaminated sediments in Areas of Concern pursuant to the
  Great Lakes Legacy Act. Under the Legacy Act, EPA typically funds large
  projects in Areas of Concern using Project Agreements (not grants) and
  requiring a minimum 35 percent nonfederal match.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment; Dissemination of
  Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 104(b)(3) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. Section 1254(b)(3),
  authorizes the awarding of assistance for programs established under the Clean
  Water Act. The Great Lakes National Program Manager is delegated authority to
  award assistance (for research, investigations, experiments, training,
                                                                                   957
