  demonstrations, surveys, and studies relating to the causes, effects, extent,       
  prevention, reduction, and elimination of pollution) affecting the Great Lakes      
  Basin and/or in support of the U.S.-Canada Great Lakes Water Quality                
  Agreement. Such activities include surveillance and monitoring of Great Lakes       
  water quality and land use activities. Grants and cooperative agreements are        
  available to support recipients' allowable direct costs incident to approved        
  activities plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA        
  policies and regulations. Quality System Documentation is required for projects     
  involving measurements or information that describe environmental processes,        
  location, or conditions; ecological or health effects and consequences; or the      
  performance of environmental technology. Section 118 (c)(12) authorizes             
  contaminated sediment remediation in Areas of Concern pursuant to eligible          
  projects under the Great Lakes Legacy Act; however, these will be done through      
  project cooperation agreements, rather than assistance. Eligibility and other       
  requirements for Legacy Act projects is being developed. Assistance agreement       
  awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information.          
  Further information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by             
  viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State water pollution control agencies, interstate agencies, other public or        
  nonprofit private agencies, institutions, and organizations for the purposes stated 
  in Section 104 (a)(1) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. Section 1254(a)(1). "For    
  profit" organizations are not eligible. Colleges and universities which are subject 
  to 40 CFR 30 or 31 are eligible. Since other federal agencies are public agencies   
  or institutions, they are generally eligible to compete and would receive an        
  interagency agreement if selected for an award. For certain competitive funding     
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to      
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the            
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State and local governments, interstate agencies, public and private nonprofit      
  organizations, institutions, and Indian tribes are eligible; "for profit"           
  organizations are not. Colleges and universities which are subject to 40 CFR 30     
  or 31 are eligible.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The provisions of OMB Circular No. A-87 "Cost Principles for State, Local and       
  Indian Tribal Governments," OMB Circular No. A-21 "Cost Principles for              
  Educational Institutions," and of OMB Circular No. A-122 "Cost Principles for       
  Nonprofit Organizations" apply.                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive       
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify    
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be     
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional             
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see      
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. Preapplication assistance is available. Requests for    
  Initial Proposals and Proposals will be accessible on the Internet from GLNPO's     
  home page (http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/) and an announcement will be mailed to         
  organizations which have registered with GLNPO.This program is eligible for         
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."          
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point   
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State        
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the   
  program for review.                                                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  As specified in applicable requests for proposals. Application kits may be          
  requested from USEPA - GLNPO (G-17J), 77 West Jackson Boulevard,                    
  Chicago, Illinois 60604-3590. Application Packages should be submitted to the       
  same address. Standard application forms, as furnished by the Federal agency        
  and required by OMB Circular No. A-102, must be used. Applicants may be             
  able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant         
  opportunities under this CFDA.                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Proposals are evaluated by EPA reviewers to determine the adequacy of the           
  application under Great Lakes objectives, including technical merit, relevance of   
  the project, environmental outcomes, and cost. Administrative review is done by     
  the Regional Assistance Branch. Funds are awarded by the Great Lakes National       
  Program Office or Region 2, 3, or 5, as applicable. GLNPO assistance is             
  approved by the GLNPO Director and awarded by the Great Lakes National              
  Program Manager. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate               
  applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms,           
  conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions       
  will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing         
  assistance agreements.                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Schedules are established in Requests for Proposals or Applications and             
  published on the program's web site. A general funding guidance is expected to      
  be issued annually, with proposals due two months later. Specific Requests for      
  Proposals or Applications may be issued throughout the year.                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   


958                                                                             11-08

  Approximately 60 days after deadline for application submission.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Contact the Great Lakes National Program Office for information.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Leveraging, including an applicant's
  match percentage, will be considered as part of the project selection process for
  grants and cooperative agreements; however, the program does not expect to
  require any minimum match requirement. Any such requirement will be
  specified in the individual Request for Proposals. A minimum 35 percent
  matching requirement will apply to Legacy Act projects (Section 103 of the
  Great Lakes Legacy Act of 2002).
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally 1-2 years; however, some incremental awards are made up to 5 years.
  The term of the grant shall be determined at the time of grant award.
Reports:
  Quarterly or semi-annual, interim, and final progress and financial status reports;
  program evaluation and other reports (such as equipment and invention reports)
  as required by the specific terms of the Agreement. Financial Status Reports
  must be submitted.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained for three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure
  report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related
  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304; EPM.
Obligations:
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements - FY 07 $7,165,148; FY 08 est.
  $6,200,000; and FY 09 est. $6,200,000; Project Agreements - FY 07
  $30,000,000 allocated: $9,218,370 used, $20,781,630 expected to be used. FY
  08 est. $34,356,000; and FY 09 est. $35,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements: $4,000 to $575,000/fiscal year;
  $110,000/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Great Lakes National Program Office (GLNPO) holds competitions
  throughout the year based on available funds and Agency priorities. The number
  of applications and the number of awards made is dependent on the competitive
  announcement issued. The announcement typically includes the number of
  anticipated awards. EPA's Great Lakes Program has been leading Federal, State,
  Tribal, local, and industry Great Lakes protection and restoration efforts.
  Accomplishments include: atmospheric deposition monitoring and open lake
  monitoring in each Great Lake for toxicant and nutrient loadings and
  concentrations (using EPA's research vessels); trend and baseline data to support
  and target remedial efforts and measure environmental progress; publishing
  results from monitoring the Lake Michigan air, water, sediments, and biota
  through the Lake Michigan Mass Balance Study; study of Lake Erie "dead
  zone;" facilitating access to Great Lakes information; contaminated sediment
  assessments and remediation demonstrations to assist clean-up in Great Lakes
  Areas of Concern; protection and restoration of important Great Lakes habitats;
  promoting toxics reduction through the Great Lakes Binational Toxics Strategy;
  advancing prevention and control of invasive species; and development and
  implementation of Lakewide Management Plans (LaMPs) and Remedial Action
  Plans (RAPs). In FY 07, GLNPO announced proposal processes in the priority
  areas of: Habitat Protection and Restoration (38 submitted totaling $2.7 million,
  22 projects selected totaling $1.1 million in federal funds); Emerging or
  Strategic Issues (Disappearing Diporeia - 9 submitted, 2 selected totaling $200
  thousand); and Contaminated Sediments (Legacy Act projects - projects still
  being developed). In addition, in FY 07 GLNPO completed a general Great
