  Lakes solicitation through a "funding guidance" addressing various Great Lakes   
  priorities which was announced in FY06 (82 proposals submitted, 32 selected      
  totaling $5.17M). Non-competitive grants were awarded for contaminated           
  sediments, LaMPs, and RAPs. An FY 08 request for applications for Pollution      
  Prevention and Toxics Reduction (pharmaceuticals and electronic waste)           
  resulted in 28 submittals totaling almost $600,000 and 17 selections totaling    
  $350,000. In FY 08, proposal or application processes have been announced        
  and are still under way for: Habitat Protection and Restoration; LaMP/RAP        
  priorities; and Monitoring. Non-competitive grants will also be awarded for      
  LaMPs and RAPs.In FY 09, GLNPO expects to issue competitive requests for         
  proposals or projects in areas supporting the Great Lakes Regional Collaboration 
  Strategy, including the priority areas of: Pollution Prevention and Toxics       
  Reduction; Contaminated sediments; Habitat Protection and Restoration;           
  Emerging or Strategic Issues (including Invasive Species); LaMP and RAP          
  priorities; and Monitoring. GLNPO also will issue non-competitive grants to      
  States and Tribes for LaMP and RAP activities. Additional information is         
  available from links at http://www.epa.gov/grtlakes/fund/glf.html.               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  Requests for proposals, examples, and other Great Lakes funding information is   
  available from http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/fund/. General regulations for EPA       
  assistance programs are contained in 40 CFR Parts 30 through 47.                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Mike Russ, EPA, Great Lakes National Program Office (G-17J), 77 West             
  Jackson Boulevard, Chicago, IL 60604-3590. Telephone: (312) 886-4013; Fax:       
  (312) 353-2018; E-mail: russ.michael@epa.gov.                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Contact the Regional Office listed above.                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/fund/                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  66.419, Water Pollution Control State, Interstate, and Tribal Program Support;   
  66.436, Surveys, Studies, Investigations, Demonstrations, and Training Grants    
  and Cooperative Agreements - Section 104(b)(3) of the Clean Water Act;           
  66.454, Water Quality Management Planning; 66.460, Nonpoint Source               
  Implementation Grants; 66.500, Environmental Protection_Consolidated             
  Research.                                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Grants and cooperative agreements awarded to States, local governments, and      
  nonprofit organizations for contaminated sediment assessment and remediation,    
  pollution prevention and reduction, ecological (habitat) protection and          
  restoration, invasive species, indicator development, strategic and emerging     
  issues, assessment pursuant to the Lake Michigan Mass Balance Study,             
  contaminant monitoring of Lake and tributary waters and biota, and information   
  management projects. Individual project summaries are available from             
  http://www.epa.gov/glnpo/fund/.                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA     
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Proposals are     
  approved by EPA according to technical merit and relevance to the Great Lakes    
  Water Quality Agreement, Section 118 of the Clean Water Act, and the criteria    
  established in the applicable request for proposals.                             
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
66.471 STATE GRANTS TO REIMBURSE OPERATORS OF                                      
SMALL WATER SYSTEMS FOR TRAINING AND                                               
CERTIFICATION COSTS                                                                
                                                                                   
   (Operator Certification Expense Reimbursement Grants)

                                                                                   
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  OFFICE OF GROUND WATER AND DRINKING WATER,

                                                                                   
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) Amendments of 1996, Section 301, Public           
  Law 104-182.                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  This grant program was established as a one-time grant to states and U.S.        
  territories to train and certify small drinking water system operators. Funding  
  Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: EPA's funding priority has been to provide funds to 
  states to reimburse the costs of training, including an appropriate per diem for 
  unsalaried operators, and certification for persons operating community and      
  nontransient noncommunity public water systems serving 3,300 persons or fewer    
  that are required to undergo training pursuant to EPA's operator certification   
  guidelines. All 50 states, Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern         
  Mariana Islands, and Guam have received grant funds. Funding Priority - Fiscal   
  Year 2009: EPA's funding priority has been to provide funds to states to         
  reimburse the costs of training, including an appropriate per diem for unsalaried
  operators, and certification for persons operating community and nontransient    
  noncommunity public water systems serving 3,300 persons or fewer that are        
  required to undergo training pursuant to EPA's operator certification guidelines.


                                                                              11-08
  All 50 states, Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
  and Guam have received grant funds.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants may be used by states to reimburse operators of community and
  nontransient noncommunity water systems serving 3,300 persons or fewer for
  the costs of training and certification needed to meet EPA guidelines. Unsalaried
  operators may also be reimbursed for per diem costs. States are allowed to use a
  portion of their grant to administer the program. If a state has reimbursed all
  such costs, the state may, after notice to the Administrator of EPA, use any
  remaining funds from the grant for any of the other purposes authorized for
  Drinking Water State Revolving Fund (DWSRF) capitalization grants under
  section 1452 of the 1996 SDWA Amendments (CFDA 66.468).
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, Puerto Rico, and U.S. Territories are eligible to receive grants.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States and U.S. Territories are the primary beneficiaries. States and U.S.
  Territories use funds awarded to them to provide reimbursement to operators of
  community and nontransient noncommunity public water systems serving 3,300
  persons or fewer that are publicly- or privately-owned. Indian tribes and Alaska
  Native Villages may be eligible to receive funding through state programs if they
  are subject to state operator certification program requirements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  To receive a grant, a State or territory enters into an agreement with the EPA
  Regional Administrator which shall include, but not be limited to, the
  requirements set forth in Section 1419(d) of the 1996 SDWA Amendments.
  OMB Circular No. A-87, "Cost Principles Applicable to Grants and Contracts
  with State and Local Governments" applies to state grantees.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An applicant (State and U.S. territory) should seek preapplication assistance
  from the appropriate EPA Regional Office as listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog. An environmental impact statement is not required prior to grant
  award. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application for EPA non-construction grant assistance (EPA Form
  SF-424) is submitted to the appropriate Regional Office. The state must receive
  EPA approval of its operator certification program before it can apply for and
  receive a grant. The state must provide the assurance in its application that it
  will comply with all applicable Federal cross-cutting authorities and Federal
  statutes. EPA grant regulations (40 CFR Part 31) apply to states receiving grants.
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  A grant application is reviewed by the appropriate Regional Office, and if
  approved, the grant is awarded by the Regional Administrator under a delegation
  of authority (Delegation of Authority 9-68) from the Administrator of EPA. EPA
  Headquarters retains the authority to review certain applications or parts thereof.
Deadlines:
  Funding is no longer available for reimbursement to states for certification and
  training cost for drinking water operators of small water systems serving
  populations of 3,300 or less.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval time averages 45 days.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Regional Administrator may award expense reimbursement grants from
  funds appropriated for this purpose. Allotments to the States and U.S. territories
  are based on a formula, approved by the Assistant Administrator for Water, that
  allocates the funds based on several factors, including the number of operators of
  small systems within a State. The allocation methodology was published in the
  Federal Register on April 18, 2001 (66 FR 19939). There are no matching
  requirements on the initial grant award. However, if a state reimburses all
  eligible costs and chooses to use the remaining funds for purposes eligible under
  the DWSRF program (CFDA 66.468), it will be required to provide a 20 percent
  match on the remaining amount. The allotment of funds to the States is
  determined by a formula that reflects the costs to train and certify operators of
  system serving 3,300 persons or fewer in each state.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  During the two year reimbursement period, 54 awards were made to states for
  reimbursement of certification and training cost for drinking water operators of
  small water systems serving populations of 3,300 or less.
Reports:
                                                                                    959
