  Grantees will be required to submit an annual performance report in accordance        
  with EPA general grant regulations.                                                   
Audits:                                                                                 
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the        
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,        
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.          
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each           
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,           
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit                   
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in         
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal            
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                                
  Financial records and other records which substantiate the reasonable and             
  allocable charges must be available to personnel authorized to examine EPA            
  grant accounts. All records must be maintained for three years from the date of       
  submission of the annual financial status reports. If questions arise, related        
  records must be retained until the matter is completely resolved.                     
Account Identification:                                                                 
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.                                                                
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0 and FY 09 est. $0.                                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $14,420 to $9,642,860; avg. $4,828,640.                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  All states, Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and        
  Guam have received grant funds for this program to date. In FY 07, awarded            
  funds were used to reimburse operators of community and non-transient non-            
  community water systems serving 3,300 persons or fewer for the costs of               
  certification (initial certification fees, certification renewal fees, exam fees) and 
  training (training course fees and materials). In FY 08, awarded funds were used      
  to reimburse operators for certification and training costs.                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Applicants for assistance should review 40 CFR Part 31, the General Grant             
  Regulations and Procedures and guidance produced by the Headquarters                  
  drinking water program office.                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  See EPA Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, or online.             
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Jenny Bielanski, Protection Branch (4606M), Drinking Water Protection                 
  Division, Office of Groundwater and Drinking Water, U.S. Environmental                
  Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 564-3836; FAX:              
  (202) 564-3755. E-mail: bielanski.jenny@epa.gov.                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.epa.gov/safewater/opcert/opcert.htm.                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  66.468, Capitalization Grants for Drinking Water State Revolving Funds.               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  All States, Puerto Rico, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,            
  and Guam have received grant funds for this program. Funds for this grants            
  program are used to reimburse operators of community and nontransient                 
  noncommunity water systems serving 3,300 persons or fewer for the costs of            
  training and certification. Examples of eligible reimbursement costs include:         
  initial certification fees, certification renewal fees, examination fees, costs of    
  training courses, and mileage reimbursements.                                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Grants are awarded to States that satisfy the requirements outlined in the            
  application procedure section.

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
66.472 BEACH MONITORING AND NOTIFICATION                                                
PROGRAM IMPLEMENTATION GRANTS                                                           
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Clean Water Act, Section 406, as amended; Beaches Environmental Assessment            
  and Coastal Health Act of 2000, Public Law 106-284.                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To assist Coastal and Great Lakes States, territories, and Indian Tribes eligible     
  under Section 518(e) of the Clean Water Act, as amended, in developing and            
  implementing programs for monitoring and notification for coastal recreation          
  waters adjacent to beaches or similar points of access that are used by the public.   
   Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: EPA's funding priority is to award grants       
  to those applicants whose proposals clearly demonstrate a State's, Tribe's, or        
  local government's ability to monitor recreational waters; notify the public of       
  risks; manage programs; and communicate among environmental and public                
  health agencies and the public. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: EPA's            
  funding priority is to award grants to those applicants whose proposals clearly       


960                                                                               11-08

  demonstrate a State's, Tribe's, or local government's ability to monitor
  recreational waters; notify the public of risks; manage programs; and
  communicate among environmental and public health agencies and the public.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  These grants are intended to support the initial development and implementation
  of recreational water monitoring and notification programs or support
  enhancement of an existing program. Grant funds can be used for operational
  support or implementation of recreational water monitoring and notification
  programs. EPA encourages grantees to use Implementation Grant funds to test
  various approaches for meeting BEACH Act program requirements. For
  development grants, programs must clearly demonstrate an increase in a State's,
  Tribe's, or local government's ability to monitor recreational waters and notify
  the public of risks; manage programs; and communicate among environmental
  and public health agencies and the public. To be eligible for implementation
  grants, programs must also demonstrate that they meet the program performance
  criteria listed in the National Beach Guidance and Required Performance
  Criteria for Grants (EPA-823-B-02-004. Assistance agreement awards under this
  program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information
  regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following
  website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Coastal and Great Lakes States, territories (the District of Columbia, the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and
  the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands), and Tribes eligible under
  Section 518(e) of the Clean Water Act, as amended. The Administrator may
  make a grant to a local government under this subsection for implementation of
  a monitoring and notification program only if, after the one-year period
  beginning on the date of publication of performance criteria under Section 406
  (a)(1), the Administrator determines that the State is not implementing a
  program that meets the requirements of Section 406(a)(1), regardless of whether
  the State has received a grant under Section 406(a)(1). Interstate agencies and
  intertribal consortia are not eligible for Beach grants.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, U.S. territories, Federally recognized Indian Tribal Governments,
  environmental and public health agencies, and local governments involved in
  implementing monitoring and notification programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State,
  Tribal, and local governments. Recipients must show compliance with 40 CFR
  Part 31.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication coordination with appropriate EPA Regional Office is
  encouraged. The standard application forms, as furnished by the Federal agency
  and required by OMB Circular No. A-102, must be used for this program. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Requests for application forms should be made to the appropriate EPA Regional
  Grants Management Office identified in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Completed
  applications should be sent to the appropriate Regional or Headquarters Contact.
  All proposals or work statements should be developed in response to the criteria
  identified in CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS. Applicants may be
  able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  Grant applications are reviewed by the appropriate EPA Regional Office and
  EPA Headquarters Office, and if approved, is awarded by the Regional
  Administrator.
Deadlines:
  The deadline to submit a complete application is 45 days from the date of the
  program announcement in the Federal Register. Please contact the Headquarters
  Contact for more information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Grants are usually approved within five months of receipt of complete
  application.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Renewals are subject to approval by the appropriate EPA Regional or
  Headquarters Contact. Please contact the appropriate EPA Regional or
  Headquarters Contact for guidance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  EPA awards grants to all eligible States and territories who apply for funding
  based on an allocation formula that the Agency developed for allocating BEACH
  Act grant funds in 2002. The allocation formula uses three factors that are
