  direct implementation, and to determine the scope and pace of tribal                
  involvement. EPA retains final decision-making authority and ultimate               
  responsibility for the environmental programs including all regulatory              
  activities.EPA may award DITCAs to fund activities for environmental programs       
  that meet either one of the following criteria: 1) federal programs under           
  environmental laws that clearly require EPA to directly implement in the Tribal     
  context; or 2) federal programs under environmental laws that in the state          
  context EPA is required to directly implement in the absence of an acceptable       
  state program. Because DITCAs can address a wide range of activities, and the       
  need for implementation of these activities in Indian Country is great, the         
  funding priority is for any eligible activity that addresses a tribal environmental 
  need or priority, and yields meaningful environmental results for the tribe and     
  the Agency. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: The program provides               
  another avenue for tribes and EPA to partner in implementing meaningful             
  environmental protection in Indian Country. DITCAs provide tribes with the          
  flexibility and opportunity to develop staff capacity to manage environmental       
  programs, to address specific tribal environmental needs and priorities that are    
  within EPA's authority for direct implementation, and to determine the scope        
  and pace of tribal involvement. EPA retains final decision-making authority and     
  ultimate responsibility for the environmental programs including all regulatory     
  activities. EPA may award DITCAs to fund activities for environmental               
  programs that meet either one of the following criteria: (1) federal programs       
  under environmental laws that clearly require EPA to directly implement in the      
  Tribal context; or (2) federal programs under environmental laws that in the state  
  context EPA is required to directly implement in the absence of an acceptable       
  state program. Because DITCAs can address a wide range of activities, and the       
  need for implementation of these activities in Indian Country is great, the         
  funding priority is for any eligible activity that addresses a tribal environmental 
  need or priority, and yields meaningful environmental results for the tribe and     
  the Agency.                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  DITCAs assist Tribes in helping EPA directly implement Federal environmental        
  programs required or authorized by law in the absence of an acceptable Tribal       
  program, and may only be awarded to Tribes to assist the Administrator in           
  directly implementing Federal environmental programs for Indian Tribes              
  required or authorized by law. EPA may award DITCAs to fund activities for          
  environmental programs that meet either one of the following criteria: (1) federal  
  programs under environmental laws that clearly require EPA to directly              
  implement in the Tribal context; or (2) federal programs under environmental        
  laws that in the state context EPA is required to directly implement in the         
  absence of an acceptable state program. There are several limitations on DITCA      
  awards. Among them are: (1) The statutory authority for DITCA is found in           
  appropriations acts. In the event the appropriation authority is extended by        
  continuing resolution(s), the DITCA authority will also be extended. (2) The        
  project period of the DITCA may extend beyond the period of the appropriations      
  act under which it was created, but all funds must be awarded prior to the          
  expiration of the appropriations act authorizing the DITCA. (3) DITCA funded        
  personnel may not perform inherently Federal functions. (4) EPA personnel can       
  provide assistance to DITCA representatives based on the written DITCA work         
  plan which may include daily direction. EPA cannot treat DITCA                      
  representatives as EPA employees by participating in hiring, disciplining, or       
  firing decisions. (5) DITCA funded personnel cannot operate vehicles which are      
  either owned or leased by the Federal government. Assistance agreement awards       
  under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further         
  information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the         
  following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  DITCAs may be awarded to: (1) Federally Recognized Indian Tribal                    
  Government, and (2) intertribal consortia consistent with applicable provisions.    
  In order for an intertribal consortium to be eligible to receive cooperative        
  agreements under this authority, an intertribal consortium should be consistent     
  with the provisions in 40 CFR Part 35. See Notice of Guidance Issuance: Direct      
  Implementation Tribal Cooperative Agreements (DITCAs) Guidance, 70 Federal          
  Register 1440 (2005). For certain competitive funding opportunities under this      
  CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or        
  subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement     
  Competition Policy.                                                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Government and intertribal consortia             
  consistent with applicable provisions.                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The provisions of OMB Circular No. A-87 "Cost Principles for State, Local and       
  Indian Tribal Governments" apply. In order for intertribal consortium to be         
  eligible to receive cooperative agreements under this authority, an intertribal     
  consortium should be consistent with the provisions in 40 CFR Part 35. For          
  additional information see also the Notice of Guidance Issuance, 70 Federal         
  Register 1440 (2005).                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          


962                                                                             11-08

  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. EPA will work with Tribes and Intertribal
  Consortia to develop work plans consistent with program guidance and any
  regulations that govern the implementation of the relevant Federal environmental
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The preapplication must be submitted to EPA for review. Successful applicants
  will be contacted by EPA and will be required to submit "Application for
  Federal Assistance," SF 424; "Budget Information: Non-Construction
  Programs," SF 424A, "Assurances-Non-Construction Programs, Certification
  Regarding Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters," SF 424B;
  "Certification Regarding Lobbying;" "Pre-Award Compliance Review," EPA
  4700-4; and other required forms to complete the application process. Eligible
  applicants should contact the appropriate Regional Office Contact identified in
  Appendix IV of the Catalog of information regarding preapplications. The forms
  are available at: http://www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/application.htm. Completed
  applications should be submitted to the appropriate Regional Office Contact
  identified in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Applicants may be able to use
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  EPA will review each application to determine the adequacy of the application
  in relation to EPA's grant regulations (40 CFR Part 31) and applicable program
  regulations and guidance. If the application is approved, EPA will award a
  cooperative agreement up to the reasonable and necessary cost of the approved
  work plan. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications,
  proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and
  criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted
  in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance
  agreements.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications are generally approved and cooperative agreements awarded within
  60 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Cooperative agreement amounts awarded will be determined based on the total
  amount available for awards and the amounts requested by Tribes and Intertribal
  Consortia. This program has no matching requirements. This program has no
  statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  EPA normally awards cooperative agreements for periods of 12 to 36 months.
  The term of the grant shall be determined at the time of award.
Reports:
  EPA and Tribes will negotiate the frequency and content of performance and
  financial status reports. Performance reports shall be required at least annually,
  but not more frequently than quarterly (see 40 CFR Part 31.40 and 31.41).
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained for three years from the date of submission of the annual Financial
  Status Report (SF-269). If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result
  of audit, related records should be retained until the matter is completely
  resolved.
