  drinking water systems; (2) technical assistance, training, or distribution of tools  
  that would lead to drinking water systems creating, amending or updating              
  emergency response plans to meet new requirements or security threats; (3)            
  assistance to improve communications with or between drinking water systems           
  and other agencies or organizations involved with security or emergency               
  response; and (4) other activities focusing on training to enhance security and       
  improving the readiness of individuals and groups involved in first response at       
  drinking water systems. Assistance agreement awards under this program may            
  involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding            
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:              
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Assistance under this program is available to States, Tribes, Territories, and        
  possessions of the United States.                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Water programs of States, Territories, and possessions of the United States.          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87.                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  Pre-application assistance is recommended and should be obtained from the             
  Grants Management Office of the pertinent EPA Regional Office listed in               
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.          
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should            
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or    
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in    
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.            
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  The standard application forms, furnished by EPA and required by OMB                  
  Circular No. A-102, must be used for this program. Requests for application kits      
  may be directed to the Grants Management Office of the applicable EPA                 
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Kits may also be obtained       
  online at http://www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/application.htm. The completed                
  application, including the final proposal, should be submitted to the appropriate     
  EPA Regional Grants Management Office. Applicants may be able to use                  
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities         
  under this CFDA.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Application is reviewed by the appropriate EPA Regional Office and, if                
  approved, is signed by the Regional Administrator or designated Division              
  Director.                                                                             
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Application forms must be submitted according to dates established by the             
  individual EPA Regional Offices. Contact the individual EPA Regional Offices          
  for application deadlines.                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Approximately 30 to 90 days.                                                          
Appeals:                                                                                
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.          
Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  As was the case in FY 02 through FY 07, for FY 08 a modification of the basic         
  PWSS formula was chosen to allocate the funds, with each State, the District of       
  Columbia, and Puerto Rico receiving a minimum of $50,000 and each Territory           
  at least $16,700. This program has no matching requirements.                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  The project/budget period on these grants may exceed one year. The term of the        
  grant shall be determined at the time of grant award.                                 
Reports:                                                                                
  Recipients must submit the reports required in 40 CFR 31 and in accordance            
  with Regional post-award monitoring plans.                                            
Audits:                                                                                 
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the        
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,        
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.          
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each           
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,           
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                  
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in        
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                        
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                                
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting           
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant must be kept available to           
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be               
  maintained for three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure       
  report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related 
  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.                   


964                                                                               11-08

Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,730,200; FY 08 $4,873,000; and FY 09 est $4,950,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Funds are awarded by each Regional Office. The range of financial assistance
  available to States varies according to program and fiscal year. Contact the
  Grants Management Office of the pertinent EPA Regional Office, listed in
  Appendix IV of the Catalog, to determine the amount for which applicants are
  eligible. The range and average of financial assistance provided is: FY 07 -
  $16,700 to $299,900/fiscal year; $158,300/fiscal year; FY 08 - $16,700 to
  $294,900/fiscal year; $155,800/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07 and FY 08, awards were made to 50 states, the District of Columbia,
  and 5 Territories. In FY 07 and FY 08, States and Territories developed
  materials (i.e., documents, training manuals, etc.) focused on improving security
  and emergency response, ensuring the quality of drinking water vulnerability
  assessments, and associated security enhancements. Additionally, States and
  Territories conducted a number of trainings, workshops, and/or conferences to
  improve infrastructure protection, increase preparedness, promote mutual aid
  compacts and/or provide information to drinking water utilities. Outcomes
  included changed management and operation of drinking water utilities based on
  training, current vulnerability assessments of the utilities, establishment of
  mutual aid compacts, and improved emergency response coordination and
  communications. In FY 09, States and Territories will continue to provide
  similar security activities to achieve the overall outcome of improving critical
  water infrastructure protection with an emphasis on smaller systems, mutual aid
  compacts between systems and states, and better understanding and application
  of an active and effective security system.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  40 CFR Part 31, General Regulation for Assistance Programs; EPA Annual
  Program Guidance provided to States.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the Grants Management Office of the appropriate EPA Regional Office
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  For general information on the program, contact Nancy Muzzy, Water Security
  Division, EPA, (Mail Code 140), 26 W. Martin Luther King Drive, Cincinnati,
  OH 45268. Telephone: (513) 569-7864; Fax: (513) 569-7191; E-mail:
  muzzy.nancy@epa.gov. For specific information on the program, contact the
  appropriate Regional Office.
Web Site Address:
  http://cfpub.epa.gov/safewater/watersecurity/financeassist.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.432, State Public Water System Supervision.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  EPA has supported the following types of drinking water security activities: (1)
  improving communications to drinking water systems by updating drinking
  water system contact information and utilizing a mass faxing system; (2)
  providing onsite assistance for small drinking water systems on security issues;
  (3) developing and mailing security information kits to drinking water systems;
  (4) maintaining a duty officer program and toll free number to enable operators
  to reach state drinking water agency after hours; (5) assisting in the formation of
  neighborhood watch programs to increase citizen awareness of drinking water
  security; (6) developing guidance for water utilities to use alternative water
  supplies; (7) incorporating security considerations into state design standards
  and State Revolving Fund (SRF) criteria; (8) creating websites to provide easy
  access to state drinking water security information; (9) designing and
  conducting on-line training, videos, and materials for the law enforcement
  community to outline water utility security basics; (10) conducting emergency
  response exercises and drills; (11) creating ready-to-go complete sampling kits
  to eliminate delays in obtaining bottles and preparing expedited sampling and
  transport protocols in preparation for emergency water supply collection needs;
  (12) assisting in preparation of state plans to implement measures for safe
  drinking water under emergency circumstances; and (13) facilitating mutual aid
  compacts in instances of emergency need, between states and water systems.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are approved by EPA according to technical merit and relevance, and
  availability of funds.
66.475 GULF OF MEXICO PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF WATER, GULF OF MEXICO PROGRAM OFFICE (GMPO),
  REGION IV, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104(b)(3), 33 U.S.C. 1254.
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To assist States, Indian Tribes, interstate agencies, and other public or
  nonprofit organizations in developing, implementing, and demonstrating
