  innovative approaches relating to the causes, effects, extent, prevention,         
  reduction, and elimination of water pollution; and (2) To expand and strengthen    
  cooperative efforts to restore and protect the health and productivity of the Gulf 
  of Mexico in ways consistent with the economic well-being of the region.           
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Projects that improve the health of the Gulf  
  of Mexico by addressing improved water quality and public health with an           
  emphasis on healthy beaches and shellfish beds, priority coastal wetland and       
  habitat protection/recovery, more effective coastal environment education,         
  improved habitat identification/characterization data and decision support         
  systems, and strategic nutrient reductions. Projects must actively involve         
  stakeholders and focus on short-term support and implementation of the actions     
  and activities in the Gulf of Mexico Alliance Governors' Action Plan for Healthy   
  and Resilient Coasts. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Projects that improve   
  the health of the Gulf of Mexico by addressing improved water quality and          
  public health with an emphasis on healthy beaches and shellfish beds, priority     
  coastal wetland and habitat protection/recovery, more effective coastal            
  environment education, improved habitat identification/characterization data       
  and decision support systems, and strategic nutrient reductions. Projects must     
  actively involve stakeholders and focus on short-term support and                  
  implementation of the actions and activities in the Gulf of Mexico Alliance        
  Governors' Action Plan for Healthy and Resilient Coasts.                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Section 104 (b)(3) of the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. Section 1254 (b)(3)           
  authorizes the awarding of assistance for programs established under the Clean     
  Water Act. Assistance will be targeted to States, Tribes, interstate agencies, and 
  other public or nonprofit organizations that commit to specific activities.        
  Eligible activities should be of a relatively short time frame (6 months to 3      
  years) and all projects should achieve and demonstrate results. Assistance         
  agreements are available to support recipients' allowable direct costs incident to 
  approved surveys, studies, investigations, research, and demonstrations plus       
  allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and          
  regulations. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or         
  relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial         
  information may be obtained by viewing the following website:                      
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Funds are available to State and local governments, interstate agencies, Tribes,   
  colleges and universities, and other public or nonprofit organizations. For certain
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency          
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants      
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State and local governments, interstate agencies, Tribes, colleges and             
  universities, individuals, and other public or nonprofit organizations.            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Compliance with 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31 and with Program Funding Guidance.          
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments, OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations,         
  and OMB No. A-21 for educational institutions.                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive      
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify   
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be    
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional            
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.        
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants should follow the proposal format and instructions provided in the      
  Funding Announcement.The proposal should be transmitted electronically to the      
  email address and by the date and time published in the Funding                    
  Announcement.Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to                
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance      
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  All Proposals must be received on or before the closing date and time published    
  in Section IV of the funding announcement. Proposals received after the            
  published closing date and time will be returned to the sender without further     
  consideration.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 90-120 days following the application deadline as addressed in       


                                                                                11-08
  the competitive funding announcement.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Contact the Gulf of Mexico Program Office for information.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The terms of the assistance shall be determined at time of award.
Reports:
  Quarterly progress and financial status report requirements will be a part of each
  assistance agreement. A schedule showing interim milestones and the
  outputs/outcomes or results that will be completed by the end of the project
  period will also be included, as will any specific requirements included in the
  assistance agreement.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained until expiration of three years from the date of submission of the
  final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result
  of an audit, related records should be retained until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304; EPM.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $2,258,800; FY 08 $3,325,000; and FY 09 est. $2,092,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $50,000 to $333,000/fiscal year; $147,592/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, 41 proposals were received in response to a competition to support
  projects to accomplish short-term actions toward implementation of the 11
  actions and 73 activities in the Gulf of Mexico Alliance Governors' Action Plan
  for Healthy and Resilient Coasts, and 13 assistance agreements were awarded.
  Accomplishments include: development of a Public Awareness Campaign for
  the Gulf of Mexico; implementation of the Coastal and Marine Ecological
  Classification Standard in the Gulf of Mexico to support development of the
  Priority Habitat Information System; implementation of a Spatial Catalog to
  Characterize and Identify Habitats in the Gulf of Mexico; Enhancing Local
  Capacity to Reach Underserved and Underrepresented Populations; validation
  and testing of Microbial Source Tracking Methodologies; coordination of Water
  Quality Monitoring across the Gulf of Mexico; a Gulf of Mexico Ocean Literacy
  Project; and a Binational HAB Risk Assessment and Communications
  Partnership. In FY 08, 31 proposals were received in response to a competition
  to continue support for projects to accomplish implementation of the Gulf of
  Mexico Alliance Governors' Action Plan. It is estimated that approximately 12-
  15 assistance agreements will be awarded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  For assistance agreements with States, local governments, and Indian tribal
  governments, the procedures and requirements should be in conformance with
  40 CFR Part 31 "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," and OMB Circular
  Nos. A-87 "Cost Principles for State and Local Governments" and A-102,
  "Grants and Cooperative Agreements for States and Local Governments." For
  assistance agreements with other entities the procedures should be in
  conformance with 40 CFR Part 30, "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of
  Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations."
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the EPA Region 4 Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog for
  information on the grants administration process. Local Office: EPA/Gulf of
  Mexico Program Office, Mail Code EPA/GMPO, Stennis Space Center, MS
  39529, Attention: Esther Coblentz. Telephone: (228) 688-1281. Fax: (228) 688-
  2709. E-Mail: coblentz.esther@epa.gov.
                                                                                     965
