Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  None.                                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.epa.gov/gmpo/.                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  66.419, Water Pollution Control State, Interstate, and Tribal Program Support;       
  66.463, Water Quality Cooperative Agreements; 66.606, Surveys, Studies,              
  Investigations and Special Purpose Grants.                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Water quality modeling support, wetlands resource management baseline,               
  harmful algal bloom information exchange, seagrass restoration, nutrient             
  control/monitoring of eutrophication, stormwater biofilter demonstration,            
  marshland upwelling system, point source locations, wastewater treatment             
  feasibility study, nutrient modeling, waterbird rookery management, outreach         
  and communications strategy targeted at high-risk consumers of shellfish,            
  invasive species education exhibit, inventory of marine science research,            
  assessment of introduction of nonindigenous aquatic species from ballast water,      
  septic tank maintenance, response plan for harmful algal blooms, assessment of       
  groundwater discharge and sewage impacts, reducing onsite sewage treatment           
  system impacts, nutrient flux from sediments, monitoring and assessment of           
  stormwater diversion, assessment status of invasive species, bacterial source        
  tracking, smart growth planning, wetland inventory, acute pollution event            
  response plan, synoptic survey of total mercury in recreational finfish, ecological  
  assessment and calibration of water quality, mercury levels in harvested fishes,     
  remote sensing of harmful algal blooms, shoreline protection, hydrological           
  modifications impact study.                                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA         
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Projects will be      
  selected based on the criteria and ranking factors established in the GMPO           
  Competitive Funding Announcement.                                                    
                                                                                       
66.478 WATER SECURITY TRAINING AND TECHNICAL                                           
                                                                                       
ASSISTANCE AND WATER SECURITY INITIATIVE                                               
CONTAMINATION WARNING SYSTEM PILOTS                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Safe Drinking Water Act, Sections 1433 and 1434, as added by The Public              
  Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of 2002, Title        
  IV, Public Law 107-188; Department of Defense and Emergency Supplemental             
  Appropriations for Recovery from and Response to Terrorist Attacks on the            
  United States Act of 2002, Public Law 107-117.                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The objective of these grant programs are (1) for financial assistance that is       
  awarded under SDWA Section 1433, to improve water infrastructure security            
  through both training and technical assistance for water utilities and (2) for       
  cooperative agreements that are awarded under SDWA Section 1434, to address          
  the risk of intentional contamination of drinking water distribution systems.        
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: For Section 1433 financial assistance for       
  Fiscal Year 2008, EPA's funding priority is to provide assistance to eligible non-   
  profit organizations that provide training, technical support or other assistance to 
  water utilities. Specifically, EPA is seeking to utilize the ability of non-profit   
  organizations to provide water security technical support and training. For          
  Section 1434 cooperative agreements for Fiscal Year 2008, EPA's funding              
  priority is to provide assistance to community water systems for drinking water      
  contamination warning system pilot projects. Financial assistance awarded under      
  both of these programs support Goal 2, Clean and Safe Water, of EPA's 2006 -         
  2011 Strategic Plan. Specifically, awards will enhance public health protection      
  by securing critical infrastructure through support for counter-terrorism            
  preparedness. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: For Section 1433 financial        
  assistance for Fiscal Year 2009, EPA's funding priority is to provide assistance     
  to eligible nonprofit organizations that provide training, technical support or      
  other assistance to water utilities. Specifically, EPA is seeking to utilize the     
  ability of nonprofit organizations to provide water security technical support and   
  training. For Section 1434 cooperative agreements for Fiscal Year 2009, EPA's        
  funding priority is to provide assistance to community water systems for             
  drinking water contamination warning system pilot projects. Financial assistance     
  awarded under both of these programs support Goal 2, Clean and Safe Water, of        
  EPA's 2006 - 2011 Strategic Plan. Specifically, awards will enhance public           
  health protection by securing critical infrastructure through support for counter-   
  terrorism preparedness.                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funded activities for financial assistance awarded under Section 1433 of the         
  SDWA include: (1) training to gain competence and expertise in the process of        
  developing or completing vulnerability assessments; (2) training to gain             
  competence and expertise in the process of developing, amending, or updating         


966                                                                              11-08

  emergency response plans; (3) training to gain competence and expertise in
  various security enhancements; and (4) providing competent training and
  technical assistance in the aforementioned areas to help states, tribes, and local
  authorities in their water infrastructure security efforts. Funded activities for
  cooperative agreements awarded under Section 1434 of the SDWA may include:
  (1) demonstration of contamination and warning system monitoring and
  surveillance components; (2) contamination warning system consequence
  management plan; and (3) evaluation and transfer of results. Specific uses and
  restrictions on funds will be described in detail in the competitive
  announcements for each program. Assistance agreement awards under this
  program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information
  regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following
  website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Financial assistance awarded under Section 1433 of the SDWA is available to
  public nonprofit institutions/organizations and private nonprofit
  institution/organizations, capable of providing training, technical support and/or
  assistance to drinking water systems. Cooperative agreements awarded under
  Section 1434 of the SDWA will be limited to local governments or institutions
  (either public or private nonprofit organizations) that operate community water
  systems (as defined in 40 CFR Section 141.2). Note that 501(c)(4) nonprofit
  organizations that lobby are not eligible. For certain competitive funding
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  For financial assistance awarded under both Sections 1433 and 1434 of the
  SDWA, the beneficiaries are the drinking water systems, the water programs of
  the State or Tribe, and the public which will benefit from these programs
  through safer and more secure drinking water.
Credentials/Documentation:
  EPA may request that applicants demonstrate their eligibility.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372. Section 1434 cooperative agreements are a new grant program that has
  not been included in the agency's list of programs subject to Intergovernmental
  review. However, EPA recommends that applicants for these cooperative
  agreements should consult the office or official designated as the single point of
  contact in its State for more information on the process the State requires to be
  followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for
  review. This program also does not require an environmental impact statement
  or assessment.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit an "Application for Federal Assistance," SF 424,
  "Budget Information: Non-Construction Programs," SF 424A, "Assurances:
  Non-Construction Programs," SF 424B, "Certification Regarding Debarment,
  Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters," "Certification Regarding
  Lobbying," "Pre-Award Compliance Review Report," EPA 4700-4, and other
  required forms to complete the application process. Application kits should be
  requested from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and
  Interagency Agreements Management Division, Mail Code 3903R, 1200
  Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington , DC 20460 or the appropriate EPA
  Regional Office identified in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Detailed information
  and assistance, including an application kit, required forms, and a check list,
  may also be found at http://www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/index.htm. Applicants
  may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA. Applications should be submitted in accordance
  with the procedures stated in the competitive announcement.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by EPA, where subsequent grant awards are made to
  successful applicants. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate
  applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms,
  conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions
  will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing
  assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  EPA will consider all grant proposals/applications received on or before the due
  date stipulated in the announcement of a competitive funding opportunity.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 30 to 90 days after deadline for application submittal.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
