  programmatic and environmental outcomes resulting from their grants. This          
  program represents a one-time pilot effort; EPA does not plan on funding any       
  new projects.                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  State/Tribal Environmental Outcome Wetland Demonstration Grants provide            
  eligible applicants an opportunity to conduct projects that promote the            
  coordination and acceleration of research, investigations, experiments, training,  
  demonstrations, surveys, and studies relating to the causes, effects, extent,      
  prevention, reduction, and elimination of water pollution. This pilot program      
  will demonstrate that supporting the implementation of State and Tribal wetland    
  programs will have positive environmental results and will support the no net      
  loss/net gain of wetland acreage goal and support increased involvement of State   
  and Tribal protection of vulnerable waters. Assistance agreement awards under      
  this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further              
  information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the        
  following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  States and Tribal wetland agencies are eligible for the State/Tribal               
  Environmental Outcome Wetland Demonstration Program competition pilot.             
  Local agencies and non-for-profits are not eligible for participation. Tribes must 
  be federally recognized, although "Treatment as a State" status is not a           
  requirement. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA         
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of  
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement              
  Competition Policy.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State and tribal governments involved in administering wetlands protection,        
  restoration, and/or management programs or programs related to or                  
  complementing wetlands protection programs.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State,       
  Tribal, and local governments.                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive      
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify   
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be    
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional            
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.       
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Information is available on the EPA website at:                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/grantpilot/. Applicants may be able to use        
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities      
  under this CFDA.                                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The EPA Headquarters (HQ) Office established criteria against which State and      
  Tribal wetland programs were evaluated and ranked. For competitive awards,         
  EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals, and/or submissions in        
  accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive      
  announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA                
  policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                          
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines were posted on the following EPA website                                 
  (http://www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/grantpilot). You can contact the EPA             
  Regional or Headquarters Office for information and to confirm deadlines. For      
  general information contact the EPA Wetlands Helpline at: (800) 832-7828.          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Grants are usually approved within 120 days of receipt of completed application.   
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula. State and Tribal government agencies        
  must provide a minimum of 25 percent of each award's total project costs in        
  accordance with 40 CFR 31.24, 35.385, and 35.615. We encourage States and          
  Tribes to provide a larger share of the project's cost whenever possible (i.e., in 
  excess of the required 25 percent of total project costs). 40 CFR 35.536(c) (the   
  Environmental Program Grants for Tribes Regulation), States that "the required     


968                                                                            11-08

  cost share shall be five percent of the allowable cost of the work plan budget for
  that program" if the Tribal applicant puts the funds into a PPG. Tribal
  applicants can submit budgets with a 5 percent match if the Tribe is going to put
  the funds into a PPG. The following term and condition will be included in the
  assistance agreement awarded to the Tribe: If the Wetlands Program Grant
  Funds are not or could not be included in a PPG, then the Tribe must provide a
  25 percent match. The match requirement can be met with contributions from
  entities other than the award recipient. Other Federal money cannot be used as
  the match for this grant program unless authorized by the statute governing the
  award of the other Federal funds. However, Indian tribes can use funds provided
  under the Indian Self-Determination and Education Act (25 U.S.C. Section 450
  et seq.) to provide the required matching funds to the extent authorized by that
  Act and implementing regulations. Matching funds are considered grant funds.
  They may be used for the reasonable and necessary expenses of carrying out the
  work plan. Any restrictions on the use of grant funds (i.e., prohibition of land
  acquisition with grant funds) also apply to the use of matching funds.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The terms of the grant shall be determined at time of grant award.
Reports:
  Quarterly interim and final progress and expenditure reports; program
  evaluations; and other reports as required by the specific terms of the
  Agreement.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained until expiration of three years from the date of submission of the
  final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result
  of audit, related records should be retained until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $6,157,723; FY 08 est. $0 and FY 09 est. $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $200,000 to $300,000/fiscal year; $250,000/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Funding is for projects designed to investigate and demonstrate whether wetland
  program implementation results in positive environmental and programmatic
  outcomes. In FY 05, EPA received 51 proposals in response to the competitive
  announcement released November 05, 2004. EPA awarded 26 one-time pilot
  grants to 22 states and one tribe. Projects include: activities to track no net loss
  of wetland acres in the 404 regulatory program and net gain in wetland acres and
  functions; monitoring and assessment; compliance inspections and enforcement
  of state regulatory programs; state permit reviews; inventory and mapping of
  wetland resources; compensatory mitigation; and development of rules, policies,
  and procedures to restore and protect vulnerable wetlands. At the end of each
  year of funding, projects report the outcomes resulting from activities funded by
  the pilot grants. To date, pilot grant recipients have submitted two annual
  reports; they will submit the third and final report in January 2009. The
  following represents a sample of results reported to date; these numbers will
  increase when the pilot projects are complete: -Restoration: 3 grantees have
  restored 183 wetland acres and 1,542 stream feet; - Inventory and Mapping: 8
  grantees have inventoried or mapped 6.7 million acres of wetland resources and
  surrounding lands; -Data Systems: Because of updated and reconfigured data
  tracking systems, 44 more programs, agencies, and organizations in 9 states are
  using wetland data systems; - Monitoring and Assessment: 5 grantees have
  monitored and/or assessed almost 724,000 wetland acres; and - Regulation: 8
  grantees have adopted and implemented 3 new rules and 12 policies or
  procedures to better protect wetlands resources through State programs.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  General Grant Regulations, and Procedures (40 CFR Parts 31 and 35).
Regional or Local Office:
  Region 1 - CT, ME, MA, NH, RI, VT: Jeanne Voorhees. US EPA Region 1, 1
  Congress Street, MC CSP, Suite 1100, Boston, MA, 02114. Telephone: (617)
  918-1686. voorhees.jeanne@epa.gov. Region 2 - NJ, NY, PR, VI: Kathleen
  Drake, EPA Region 2, 290 Broadway, NY, NY, 10007. Telephone: (212) 637-
  3817. drake.kathleen@epa.gov. Region 3 - DE, MD, PA, VA, WV, DC: Anita
