  Provenzano, EPA Region 3, 1650 Arch Street, MC 3EA30, Philadelphia, PA,          
  19103. Telephone: 215-814-5180. provenzano.anita@epa.gov. Region 4 - AL,         
  FL, GA, KY, MS, NC, SC, TN: Morgan Jackson and Rhonda Evans, EPA                 
  Region 4, 61 Forsyth Street, S.W., Atlanta, GA, 30303. Telephone: (404) 562-     
  9393 (M. Jackson); (404) 562-9369 (R. Evans). jackson.morgan@epa.gov;            
  evans.rhonda@epa.gov. Region 5 - IL, IN, MI, MN, OH, WI: Sue Elston, EPA         
  Region 5, 77 West Jackson Blvd., MC WW16J, Chicago, IL, 60604. Telephone:        
  (312) 886-6115. elston.sue@epa.gov. Region 6 - AR, LA, NM, OK, TX:               
  Mariama Dover, EPA Region 6, 1445 Ross Avenue, MC 6WQ-AT, Dallas, TX,            
  75202. Telephone: (214) 665-6778. dover.mariama@epa.gov. Region 8 - CO,          
  MT, ND, SD, UT, WY: Toney Ott, EPA Region 8, 1595 Wynkoop Street, 8EPR-          
  EP, Denver, CO, 80202. Telephone: (303) 312-6909. ott.toney@epa.gov.             
  Region 9 - AZ, CA, HI, NV, AS, GU: Suzanne Marr and Paul Jones, EPA              
  Region 9, 75 Hawthorne Street, WTR-3, San Francisco, CA 94105. Telephone:        
  (415) 972-3468 (S. Marr); (415) 972-3470 (P. Jones). marr.suzanne@epa.gov;       
  jones.paul@epa.gov. Region 10 - AK, ID, OR, WA: Yvonne Vallette, EPA             
  Region 10, Oregon Operations Office, 811 S.W. 6th Ave, 3rd Floor, OOO,           
  Portland, OR, 97204. Telephone: (503) 326-2716. vallette.yvonne@epa.gov.         
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Katherine Antos, EPA Wetlands Division, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.,          
  MC (4502T), Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 566-0620; Fax: (202)          
  566-1349; E-mail: antos.katherine@epa.gov.                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/grantpilot/.                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  66.419, Water Pollution Control State, Interstate, and Tribal Program Support;   
  66.454, Water Quality Management Planning; 66.456, National Estuary              
  Program; 66.458, Capitalization Grants for Clean Water State Revolving Funds;    
  66.461, Regional Wetland Program Development Grants.                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  This is a one-time pilot grant program. Examples of funded projects include:     
  monitoring/assessment for vernal wetlands, enforcement activities, state permit  
  review, mapping, program assessments, compensatory mitigation assessment         
  and tracking, and protection of vulnerable wetlands.                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA     
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Decisions of      
  which States and Tribes will receive funding under this pilot will be determined 
  by how the State or Tribe's program rank using established criteria and factors. 
  These criteria will be published on the HQ Office's website                      
  (www.epa.gov/owow/wetlands/grantpilot). States and Tribes will be evaluated      
  and ranked according to these criteria and factors. Funding under this pilot     
  program will be provided to the States and Tribes that rank the highest.         
                                                                                   
66.480 ASSESSMENT AND WATERSHED PROTECTION                                         
                                                                                   
PROGRAM GRANTS                                                                     
   (AWPPG)                                                                         
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  OFFICE OF WATER, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Clean Water Act, Section 104(b)(3).                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To support the coordination and acceleration of research, investigations,        
  experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, and studies relating to the      
  causes, effects (including health and welfare effects), extent, prevention,      
  reduction, and elimination of water pollution. The two main goals of the         
  Assessment and Watershed Protection Program Grants (AWPPGs) include              
  supporting a watershed approach to better address water quality problems in the  
  U.S. and building the capacity of all levels of government to develop and        
  implement effective, comprehensive programs for watershed protection,            
  restoration, and management. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Funding        
  under this program area includes: Watershed/Total Maximum Daily Load             
  (TMDL) Program - (1) Assessment and TMDL Workshops; (2) Impaired Waters          
  Recovery and Results Analysis; (3) Tools and Products Training for the           
  Watershed Approach; and (4) Tools, Incentives and Trainings that Foster          
  Financing of Water Quality, Habitat Restoration/Protection on a Watershed        
  Scale. Nonpoint Source Program - (1) National Conference and Outreach            
  Program to Promote Clean Lakes.                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants.                                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable 
  direct costs incidental to approved scopes of work plus allowable indirect costs,
  in accordance with established EPA policies and regulations. Funding awarded     
  for research does not include research within the purview of EPA's Office of     
  Research and Development. Specific uses and restrictions on funds will be        
  described in detail in the competitive announcements.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             


                                                                              11-08
  Assistance under this program is available to States and local governments,
  Federally recognized Indian Tribes, territories and possessions of the U.S.
  (including the District of Columbia), interstate associations or intertribal
  consortia, public or private nonprofit, nongovernmental institutions, and
  individuals. Nonprofit organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of the
  Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3
  of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not eligible to apply. For certain
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States and local governments, Federally recognized Indian Tribes, territories and
  possessions of the U.S. (including the District of Columbia), interstate
  associations or intertribal consortia, public or private nonprofit,
  nongovernmental institutions, and individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation of nonprofit status may be required. Applicants may be
  requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training,
  experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects. EPA may
  ask applicants or principle investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant
  publications. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular no. A-
  21 for educational institutions, OMB Circular Nos. A-122 for nonprofit
  organizations, and A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  EPA awards grants and cooperative agreements supporting research,
  investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations, surveys, and studies and
  based on competitive applications submitted in response to EPA solicitations.
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110, must be used for this program. EPA
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, (3903R), 1200
  Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20460 or through the appropriate
  EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Additional
  information on the EPA grant package can be found at:
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. The Requests for Initial
  Proposals or Requests for Applications will specify application procedures.
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be specified in the announcement of the competitive funding
  opportunity.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and cooperative agreements
  for water surveys, studies, demonstrations, and investigations. Approval of
  subsequent funding increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress,
  continued relevance of the project to EPA's priorities, availability of funds, and
  Agency policy on the competitive grant process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The term of the grant shall be determined at the time of grant award.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
                                                                                  969
