  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention        
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations Part   
  30 and Part 31.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the      
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,      
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.        
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each         
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,         
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in      
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofits and                 
  universities) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable. Recipients     
  must keep financial records, including all documents supporting entries on          
  accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants, available to personnel    
  authorized to examine EPA recipients' grants and cooperative agreements             
  records. Recipients must maintain all records until 3 years from the date of        
  submission of final expenditure reports. If questions, such as those raised as a    
  result of audits remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain records 
  until the matter is completely resolved.                                            
Account Identification:                                                               
  68-0108-0-1-304; EPM.                                                               
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $1,100,000; FY 08 $500,000; and FY 09 est. $0.                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $10,000 to $100,000/fiscal year; $50,000/fiscal year.                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  For FY 07 funds, approximately 130 proposals were received, of which 18 were        
  funded. Awards ranged from $15,000 to $200,000. Project outputs for FY 07           
  included workshops on innovative assessment and modeling techniques, training       
  handbook(s) on low impact development practices, case studies on agricultural       
  drainage practices, and volunteer monitoring newsletters. For FY 08, it is          
  anticipated that five to eight awards may be made under a Request for Proposals.    
   Specifically, EPA is soliciting proposals from eligible applicants under two       
  National Priorities: (1) Watershed/Total Maximum Daily Load (TMDL)National          
  Priority and (2) Nonpoint Source National Priority.                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Surveys, Studies, and Investigations grants and cooperative agreements are          
  subject to EPA's General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part          
  31).                                                                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA         
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters          
  program contacts listed below.                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  For information on grant applications and procedures, contact: Environmental        
  Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division,           
  3903R, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20460. For program              
  information contact: Diane Edwards, EPA Office of Wetlands, Oceans and              
  Watersheds, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., NW (MC 4501T), Washington, DC                   
  20460, Telephone: (202) 566-1254; Fax: (202) 566-1147; E-mail:                      
  edwards.diane@epa.gov, or Tim Icke, EPA Office of Wetlands, Oceans and              
  Watersheds, Assessment and Watershed Protection Division, 1200 Pennsylvania         
  Ave., N.W. (MC 4501T), Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 566-1211;             
  Fax: (202) 566-1333; E-mail: icke.tim@epa.gov.                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/owow/funding.html.                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  66.436, Surveys, Studies, Investigations, Demonstrations, and Training Grants       
  and Cooperative Agreements - Section 104(b)(3) of the Clean Water Act.              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  EPA awards grants to support the following types of watershed planning              
  activities: workshops on innovative TMDL assessment; workshops on                   
  innovative TMDL modeling techniques; training handbook(s) on low impact             
  development; demonstration studies on new techniques to control agricultural        
  drainage; production of volunteer monitoring newsletter(s).                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA        
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                      
                                                                                      
66.481 LAKE CHAMPLAIN BASIN PROGRAM                                                   
                                                                                      
      (Lake Champlain Program)                                                        
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       


970                                                                             11-08

  REGION 1 AND REGION 2, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 120 of the Clean Water Act (CWA), as amended by Public Law 107-
  303.
OBJECTIVES:
  To implement the Lake Champlain Basin Management Plan Opportunities for
  Action: An Evolving Plan for the Future of the Lake Champlain Basin, and to
  assist the states of New York and Vermont in protecting and preserving the Lake
  Champlain ecosystem. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Efforts in Lake
  Champlain will continue to support the successful interstate, interagency, and
  international partnership undertaking the implementation of "Opportunities for
  Action," a plan designed to address various threats to the Lake's water quality,
  including phosphorus loadings, invasive species, and toxic substances. Grants
  under this program shall be made for assisting research, surveys, studies,
  modeling, technical, field, restoration, education, outreach, and other supporting
  work necessary for the development and implementation of the Lake Champlain
  Basin Management Plan. Funding priorities include phosphorus control,
  environmental education and outreach, and support for cultural and recreational
  resources. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Efforts in Lake Champlain will
  continue to support the successful interstate, interagency, and international
  partnership undertaking the implementation of "Opportunities for Action," a
  plan designed to address various threats to the Lake's water quality, including
  phosphorus loadings, invasive species, and toxic substances. Grants under this
  program shall be made for assisting research, surveys, studies, modeling,
  technical, field, restoration, education, outreach, and other supporting work
  necessary for the development and implementation of the Lake Champlain Basin
  Management Plan. Funding priorities include phosphorus control, environmental
  education and outreach, and support for cultural and recreational resources.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  As described in Section 120 of the CWA, funds may be used to implement
  elements of the Lake Champlain Basin Management Plan, Opportunities for
  Action. Projects outside of the Lake Champlain Basin are not eligible for
  funding under this program. Grant awards must be made in consultation with the
  Lake Champlain Basin Program Steering Committee, and must support activities
  consistent with the goals of Opportunities for Action. Assistance agreement
  awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information.
  Further information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by
  viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State, interstate, and regional water pollution control agencies, and public or
  nonprofit agencies, institutions, and organizations are eligible to receive grants
  from EPA through this program. For certain competitive funding opportunities
  under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a
  number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance
  Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program generally benefits State environmental, health,
  and agriculture agencies; interstate water pollution control agencies; public
  nonprofit institutions and organizations; sponsored organizations; Federal
  agencies; local agencies; intrastate agencies; public and private nonprofit
  institutions and organizations; private organizations; small businesses; and
  quasi-public nonprofit institutions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Nonprofit private agencies, institutions, and organizations may be required to
  provide documentation of their organizational status upon application.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. A pre-application form is not required. Informal
  pre-application discussions or conferences with the Lake Champlain Basin
  Program Steering Committee, and EPA Regions 1 and 2 are required. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The Lake Champlain Basin Program Steering Committee, in conjunction with
  EPA Regions 1 and 2, develops the annual budget and task list. This budget and
  task list is then divided between the States of Vermont and New York and the
  New England Interstate Water Pollution Control Commission. From this
  information, these three organizations then prepare grant applications and
  workplans for submittal to EPA Region 2 or Region 1. The standards application
  forms, as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-
  102 and A-110, must be used for this program. EPA requires final applications
