  to be made on Standard Form 424. Application kits should be requested from the     
  Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements                 
  Management Division, (3903R), 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W.,                     
  Washington, DC 20460 or the appropriate EPA Regional Office identified in          
  "Regional or Local Office" section for information contacts. Detailed              
  information and assistance, including and application kit, required forms, and a   
  checklist may also be found at: http://www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/. Applications       
  must be submitted to the appropriate EPA Regional Office identified in             
  "Regional or Local Office" section for information contacts. Applicants may be     
  able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant        
  opportunities under this CFDA.                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Each federal assistance application and final work plan will be evaluated by       
  EPA Region 1 or Region 2 to determine the adequacy of the application under        
  the established EPA grants program requirements and guidelines, including, but     
  not limited to, the requirements set forth in 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31. Technical    
  merit and the relevance of the project to the priorities and objectives established
  in Opportunities for Action will also be considered. Each application will also    
  be subject to an administrative review by the EPA Region 1 or 2 grants             
  management office as appropriate to determine whether all administrative           
  requirements have been met. The workplan is submitted to the EPA Region 1          
  and 2 Regional Administrators for approval prior to the award of any assistance    
  agreement. Once a Regional Office approves the annual workplan, funds are          
  awarded by the EPA Region 1 or 2 Regional Administrator as appropriate.            
  Grantees will receive an award package from the appropriate EPA Regional           
  grants management office that must be accepted and signed by an authorized         
  official of the recipient organization and returned to the grants management       
  office within 30 days. Awards may be made on an advance or reimbursement           
  basis. Awards that are not signed and returned by the deadline may be subject to   
  cancellation. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate                 
  applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms,          
  conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions      
  will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing        
  assistance agreements.                                                             
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines for annual funding for the Lake Champlain Basin Program will vary        
  from year to year, but will generally be in late winter or early spring. Please    
  contact the EPA officials listed in the "Regional or Local Office" section below   
  for further information.                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Notification of action on proposals varies depending on the timing of funds        
  release to the EPA Regional Offices from Headquarters. Interval from               
  submission to notification may vary from two months to eight months.               
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  No cost extensions and amendments may be available subject to the approval of      
  EPA. Approval of subsequent funding is dependent on satisfactory project           
  progress, continued relevance of the project to EPA's priorities, and availability 
  of funds, and the Agency policy on the competitive grant process.                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has a statutory matching requirement; see CWA section 120 (f)(3).     
  For all assistance (grants and cooperative agreements) agreements made under       
  this program, federal costs shall not exceed 75 percent of the total cost of the   
  agreement. This program has no statutory funding formula.                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Assistance agreements are generally made for a multi-year period at the            
  discretion of EPA. Start dates for assistance agreements are variable and are      
  established at the discretion of EPA. Generally however, it is intended that start 
  dates closely follow award dates of the assistance agreement. Awards are fully     
  funded, recipients draw down funding as cost are incurred, typically monthly.      
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly, interim, and final progress and/or financial status reports; program    
  evaluation and other reports (such as equipment and invention reports) as          
  required by the specific terms of the Agreement. Financial Status Reports on the   
  standard federal form must be submitted. MBE/WBE quarterly reports are also        
  required. Quality Management Plans and Quality Assistance Project Plans may        
  also be required.                                                                  
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each        
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit               


                                                                                11-08
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate changes to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained for three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure
  report. If questions still remain, such as those that arose as a result of an audit,
  related records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304; EPM.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $997,000; FY 08 $2,707,000 and FY 09 $934,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $75,000 to $1,199,300/fiscal year; $637,000/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since 1991, EPA's funding of the Lake Champlain Basin Program has led
  protection and restoration of the Lake Champlain basin through coordination
  with federal, provincial, state, and municipal agencies and local citizens. The
  main program goals, as laid out in the Lake Champlain Management Plan
  Opportunities for Action, are as follows: reducing phosphorus inputs to Lake
  Champlain; decreasing toxic contamination; minimizing the risks to humans
  from water-related health hazards; and controlling the introduction, spread, and
  impact of nonnative nuisance species. EPA works with the Lake Champlain
  Basin Program Steering Committee to determine funding priorities and
  distributes funds accordingly. The following four entities receive funding on an
  annual basis: New England Interstate Water Pollution Control Commission
  (NEIWPCC), Vermont Department of Environmental Conservation, the New
  York Department of Environmental Conservation, and the Lake Champlain
  Science Center. They may choose to compete all or part of the funds.
  Competitive announcements typically include the number of anticipated awards.
  In FY 07, funds were used to support protection and restoration of the Lake
  Champlain Basin. Specific examples of accomplishments in FY 07 include:
  Developed 17 new wayside interpretive exhibits, three new bikeways guides, and
  one new water trail guide; awarded 11 new local subgrants to watershed
  organizations; obtained and processed 3,836 water chemistry samples as part of
  a long-term water quality monitoring program; trained teachers and educated
  students through 26 classroom visits and field days; provided information about
  Lake Champlain to 14,000 resource room visitors; serviced 31,000 website
  visits; developed 12 new resource room exhibits; prepared 12,000 brochures on
  using lawn fertilizer without phosphorus; distributed 127,315 newspaper inserts
  about Lake Champlain restoration successes and challenges; and hired four
  seasonal boat stewards to reduce the spread of invasive species.In FY08, a key
  expected accomplishment includes creation and distribution of a "State of the
  Lake" report detailing current water quality and other ecosystem conditions.
  Further accomplishments planned include: conducting water quality monitoring
  programs; a boat inspection and education program to reduce the spread of
  invasive species, extensive watershed mapping to better plan for BMP
  installation, removal of invasive water chestnuts, and other tasks.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Lake Champlain program grants and cooperative agreements are subject to
  EPA's general grant regulations, 40 CFR Part 30 or 40 CFR Part 31. All
  assistance agreements must support the goals and objectives of the Lake
  Champlain Management Plan, Opportunities for Action. A copy of this
  document is available on request from the Lake Champlain Basin Program, 54
  West Shore Road, Grand Isle, VT 05458, Phone 802-372-3213 and is also
  available online at http://www.lcbp.org.
Regional or Local Office:
  Erik Beck, EPA New England, 1 Congress Street, Suite 1100-CWN, Boston,
  MA 02114-2023. Telephone: (617) 918-1606; Fax: (617) 918-0606; E-mail:
  beck.erik@epa.gov. Mario Paula, EPA Region 2, 290 Broadway, 24th Floor,
  New York, NY 10007-1866. Telephone: (212) 637-3819; Fax: (212) 637-3889;
  E-mail: paula.mario@epa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  None. Contact one of the regional offices listed above.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/NE/eco/lakechamplain/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  12.100, Aquatic Plant Control; 66.419, Water Pollution Control State, Interstate,
  and Tribal Program Support; 66.436,Surveys, Studies, Investigations,
  Demonstrations, and Training Grants and Cooperative Agreements - Section
  104(b)(3) of the Clean Water Act; 66.454, Water Quality Management Planning;
  66.460, Nonpoint Source Implementation Grants; 66.463, Water Quality
  Cooperative Agreements.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
                                                                                    971
