66.509 SCIENCE TO ACHIEVE RESULTS (STAR)                                              
RESEARCH PROGRAM                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL                                   
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Section 102(2)(F); Clean Air Act,        
  Section 103, 42 U.S.C. 7403; Clean Water Act, Section 104, 33 U.S.C.; Solid         
  Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001, 42 U.S.C. 6981; Safe Drinking Water Act,          
  Section 1442, 42 U.S.C. 300j-1; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide     
  Act, Section 20, 7 U.S.C. 136r; Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10, 15        
  U.S.C. 2609.                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  (1) To support research to determine the environmental and human health effects     
  of air quality, drinking water, water quality, hazardous waste, toxic substances,   
  and pesticides; (2) identify, develop, and demonstrate effective pollution control  
  techniques; and (3) support research to explore and develop strategies and          
  mechanisms for those in the social, governmental, and environmental arenas to       
  use in environmental management decisions. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year           
  2008: The STAR Program will fund the highest quality academic research in the       
  following priority areas: (1) Air Quality: Health Effects of Near-Roadway           
  Exposures to Air Pollution; Dynamic Air Quality Management. (2) Human               
  Health: Children's Environmental Health and Disease Prevention Research (with       
  NIEHS); Exposure Assessment: Research for Understanding and Assessing               
  Human Exposure in Longitudinal Studies; Community-based Cumulative Risk             
  Assessment Research; Research for Outcomes and Accountability: Development          
  of Novel Environmental Health Outcome Indicators.(3) Ecosystem                      
  Protection/Water Quality: Enhancing Ecosystem Services from Agricultural            
  Lands: Developing Tools for Quantification and Decision Support; Forecasting        
  from Wetland Condition Indicators to Ecosystem Services; Ecology and                
  Oceanography of Harmful Algal Blooms. (4) Global Change: Consequences of            
  Global Change for Water Quality; Global Change and Impact on Allergic               
  Disease; Adaptation, Mitigation Impacts, and Air Quality Planning in a              
  Changing Global Environment; Potential Environmental Impacts from the               
  Geologic Sequestration of Carbon Dioxide. (5) Drinking Water: Innovative and        
  Integrative Approaches for Advancing Public Health Protection Through Water         
  Infrastructure Sustainability.(6) Endocrine                                         
  Disruptors/Biotechnology/Computational Toxicology: Exploratory                      
  Investigations in Food Allergy (R21) through NIH-NIAID. (7) Nanotechnology:         
  Nanotechnology Research Grants: Investigating Environmental Effects of              
  Manufactured Nanomaterials: a Joint Research Solicitation - EPA, NSF & DOE;         
  Center for the Environmental Implications of Nanotechnology (CEIN) through          
  NSF. In addition to the solicitations identified above, other solicitations may be  
  announced in the coming year. Please check the NCER website:                        
  http://www.epa.gov/ncer for an updated listing of all solicitations. search Grants: 
  Investigating Environmental Effects of Manufactured Nanomaterials: a Joint          
  Research Solicitation - EPA, NSF and DOE. In addition to the solicitations          
  identified above, other solicitations may be announced in the coming year.          
  Please check the NCER website: http://www.epa.gov/ncer for an updated listing       
  of all solicitations.                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The National Center for Environmental Research (NCER) generally does not            
  accept unsolicited proposals for the STAR program. All STAR awards are made         
  in response to competitive requests for applications (RFAs) or requests for initial 
  proposals (RFIPs). Funds awarded via grants/cooperative agreements are              
  available for allowable direct cost expenditures incident to the performance of     
  research plus allocable portions of allowable indirect costs of the institutions, in
  accordance with established EPA policies and regulations. Assistance agreement      
  awards under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information.          
  Further information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by             
  viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the      
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible           
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition            
  Policy.Public nonprofit institutions/organizations (includes public institutions of 
  higher education and hospitals) and private nonprofit institutions/organizations    
  (includes private institutions of higher education and hospitals) located in the    
  U.S.; state and local governments; Federally Recognized Indian Tribal               
  Governments; and U.S. territories or possessions are eligible to apply.National     
  laboratories funded by Federal Agencies (Federally-Funded Research and              
  Development Centers, "FFRDCs") may not apply. FFRDC employees may                   
  cooperate or collaborate with eligible applicants within the limits imposed by      
  applicable legislation and regulations. They may participate in planning,           
  conducting, and analyzing the research directed by the applicant, but may not       
  direct projects on behalf of the applicant organization. The institution,           
  organization, or governance receiving the award may provide funds through its       
                                                                                 11-08
  grant from the EPA to an FFRDC for research personnel, supplies, equipment,
  and other expenses directly related to the research. However, salaries for
  permanent FFRDC employees may not be provided through this mechanism.
  Federal Agencies may not apply. Federal employees are not eligible to serve in a
  principal leadership role on a grant, and may not receive salaries or augment
  their Agency's appropriations in other ways through grants made by this
  program.Not-for-profit organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of the
  Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3
  of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not eligible to apply. Profit-making
  firms are not eligible to receive grants from EPA under this program. See RFAs
  at: http://www.epa.gov/ncer for additional information pertaining to eligibility
  requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public nonprofit institutions/organizations and private nonprofit
  institutions/organizations located in the U.S.; state and local governments;
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments; U.S. territories or possessions;
  Anyone/General Public, Education Professional, Student/Trainee, Graduate
  Student, Scientists/Researchers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The EPA may request that applicants demonstrate they have appropriate
  background, academic training, experience in the field, and necessary equipment
  to carry out the research. EPA may ask applicants or principal investigators to
  provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications. EPA may also ask the lead
  principal investigator/contact principal investigator for information documenting
  past performance.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. When applicable, an environmental impact
  assessment is made by the Office of Research and Development as required by
  the National Environmental Protection Act. The standard application forms as
  furnished by the EPA and required by OMB Circulars No. A-102 and No. A-110
  must be used for this program.This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Competitive RFAs or RFIPs for grants/cooperative agreements are announced
  widely through the Internet, university and scientific organizations, among other
  mechanisms. Applicants must propose EPA mission relevant research based on
  excellent science as determined through peer review by experts drawn from the
  national and international scientific community. Other more specialized
  scientific areas may be solicited via joint RFAs with other Federal agencies. The
  STAR program may fund research centers that focus on long-term, multi-
  disciplinary research.For regular mail, completed paper applications must be
  submitted to the following address: Environmental Protection Agency, Peer
  Review Division (8725F, Funding Opportunity; Number: (include appropriate
  number as shown in the solicitation; 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue,
  N.W.,Washington, DC 20460. For express mail and couriers, completed paper
  applications must be submitted to the following address: Environmental
  Protection Agency Peer Review Division (8725F), Funding Opportunity
  Number: (include appropriate number as shown in the solicitation; 1025 F
  Street, N.W., (Room 3500),Washington, DC 20004, Telephone: (202) 233-0686.
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circulars No. A-102 and No.
  A-110. Specific details on the application process are described in the
  solicitations which are located at: http://www.epa.gov/ncer. Applicants may be
  able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in
  accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance
  agreements.Customarily, applicants are notified of award decisions within six
  months of the close of the RFA. After being recommended for award, applicants
  will be required to submit additional certifications and an electronic version of
  the revised project abstract, and may be requested to provide responses to
  comments or suggestions offered by the peer reviewers, a revised budget, past
  performance documentation, and/or make appropriate proposal revisions. EPA
  Project Officers will contact the Lead Principal Investigator/Contact Principal
  Investigator to obtain these materials. The official notification of an award will
  be made by the Agency's Grants and Interagency Agreement Management
  Division. Before or after award, certain applicants will be expected to provide
  additional quality assurance documentation.
Deadlines:
  As shown in the specific solicitations, which are accessible through the
                                                                                  973
