Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Public nonprofit institutions/organizations and private nonprofit                    
  institutions/organizations; state and local governments; Federally Recognized        
  Indian Tribal Governments; U.S. territories or possessions; anyone/general           
  public; education professionals; students/trainees; graduate students;               
  scientists/researchers; hospitals; foreign entities; and individuals.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  The Agency may request that applicants demonstrate they have appropriate             
  background, academic training experience in the field, and the necessary             
  equipment to carrt out the research. EPA may ask applicants or principal             
  investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications. EPA may         
  ask principal investigators for information documenting past performance. Costs      
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and            
  local governments, OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions, and           
  OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations.                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive        
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify     
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be      
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional              
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see       
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. When applicable, an environmental impact                 
  assessment is made by the Office of Research and Development as required by          
  the National Environmental Protection Act. The standard application forms as         
  furnished by the EPA and required by OMB Circulars No. A-102 and No. A-110           
  must be used for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.      
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should           
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or   
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in   
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Competitive RFAs (requests for applications) for grants in these areas are           
  announced widely through the Federal Register, Internet, university and              
  scientific organizations, among other mechanisms. Although the programs              
  identified are the formal assistance programs that ORD funds, there are periodic     
  RFAs disseminated on other topics that are not part of the formal program.           
  These new programs are also part of 66.510 but cannot be presently identified.       
  Funds may be available to support activities including but not limited to            
  experiments, surveys, studies, investigations, public education programs, and        
  monitoring where authorized by specific statutes, in both science and                
  engineering disciplines. Please check the Federal Register or the EPA/ORD            
  website http://www.epa.gov/ord/htm/grantopportunity.htm for an updated listing       
  of these programs. Completed applications must be submitted to the appropriate       
  Grants Management Office at the Environmental Protection Agency or as shown          
  in the specific RFAs, which are accessible through the EPA/ORD website at            
  http://www.epa.gov/ord/htm/grantopportunity.htm. Applicants may be able to           
  use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities    
  under this CFDA. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to              
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,        
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated     
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance        
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.Customarily,       
  applicants are notified about award decisions within six months of the               
  solicitation deadline. After being recommended for award, applicants will be         
  required to submit additional certifications and an electronic version of the        
  revised project abstract, and may be requested to provide responses to comments      
                                                                                       
  or suggestions offered by the peer reviewers, a revised budget, past performance

                                                                                       
  documentation, and/or make appropriate revisions. EPA Project Officers will

                                                                                       
  contact Principal Investigators to obtain these materials. The official notification

                                                                                       
  of an award will be made by the Agency's Grants and Interagency Agreements

                                                                                       
  Management Division. Before or after award, certain applicants will be expected

                                                                                       
  to provide additional quality assurance documentation.

                                                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the headquarters office for application deadlines or review the RFAs for

                                                                                       
  specific deadlines.

                                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                       
  Approximately 180 days.

                                                                                       
Appeals:

  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in                
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal        
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also         
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."       
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients      
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                  
                                                                                       
Renewals:

  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new         
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and     
  will compete for available funds.                                                    


                                                                                 11-08 
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are normally funded on a 12-month basis (annual). Total approved
  project period may not exceed 5 years.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations, 40
  CFR Parts 30 and 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained until three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure
  report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related
  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0107-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $4,300,000; FY 08 est $6,700,000; and FY 09 est $6,700,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  New grants/cooperative agreements range from $5,000 to $500,000 and average
  $100,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  An estimated 50 grants/cooperative agreements are made each year. Data of the
  number of applications received and the exact number of awards made in the last
  three fiscal years is not available. Summary results of the research are available
  on http://www.epa.gov/researchaccomplishments/.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures, Environmental Protection Agency
  (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part 31). "EPA Assistance Administration
  Manual," available from the National Technical Information Service,
  Springfield, VA 22161 on a subscription basis and "EPA and the Academic
  Community, Solicitation for Grant Proposals."
Regional or Local Office:
  Individuals are encouraged to communicate with the appropriate EPA Regional
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or the contact listed on the RFA.
Headquarters Office:
  For administrative questions on grant applications and procedures, contact Mark
  J. Thomas, at the following address: Environmental Protection Agency, 1200
  Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 564-4763,
  Fax: (202) 565-2903, E-mail: Thomas.Mark @epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/ord/htm/grantopportunity.htm .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.509, Science To Achieve Results (STAR) Research Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) To investigate methods to manage large floodplain rivers in ways that
  achieve multiple, sustained benefits by restoring hydrogeomorphic river channel
  processes in carefully selected locations. (2) This assistance agreement will
  support a meeting to foster collaborative research among researchers in different
  States on the effects of ozone on plants, and to find ways to reach out to the
  public to inform them of the results of this research. (3) This project, through
  distribution of Pollution Prevention and linked life cycle cost accounting tools,
  will enable small and medium size businesses located in greater New England to
  reduce their emission of toxic substances, which will in turn lead to reduced
  environmental health risks. (4) The goals of this project are to develop and apply
  a methodology for benchmarking curricula in sustainability engineering and to
  identify individuals active in sustainability engineering education. The
  information collected in this project will be available as a resource for faculty at
  institutions of higher education to enhance the engineering curricula with
  lessons focused on the environmental impacts associated with the design of
  products, processes, or systems. (5) This grant studies environmental
  sustainability issues concerning the need to balance the use of water to meet
  both human and environmental demands. Funding will support a decision
  support system (DDS) that will integrate scientific models of ecological water
                                                                                     975
