  flow needs, water demand management, and water supply planning into a                
  decision-oriented optimization framework that promotes preventive approaches.        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA         
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. A proposal is         
  judged for (A) scientific merit in terms of quality and originality of the proposed  
  work, the qualifications of the investigator(s), the adequacy of the quality         
  assurance plan, the responsiveness of the proposed needs identified in the RFA,      
  the appropriateness of the proposed budget, and the probability that the project     
  will accomplish stated objectives, and (B) program interest in terms of the need     
  for the proposed work and a balanced ORD research portfolio. See the Web             
  page for specific criteria.                                                          
                                                                                       
66.511 OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT                                              
                                                                                       
CONSOLIDATED RESEARCH/TRAINING/FELLOWSHIPS                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL                                    
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Section 102(2)( F); Clean Air Act,        
  Sections 103 and 104, as amended, Public Law 95-95, 42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.;          
  Clean Water Act, Section 104, as amended, Public Law 95-217, 33 U.S.C. 1251          
  et seq.; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001, as amended; Resource                
  Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, Public Law 94-580, 42             
  U.S.C. 6901 et seq.; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442, as amended, Public       
  Law 93- 523; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Public Law         
  92-516, 7 U.S.C. Sections 136r and 136u; Public Laws 94-140 and 95-396, 7            
  U.S.C. 136 et seq.; Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10, as amended,            
  Public Law 94-469, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.; Comprehensive Environmental               
  Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) of 1980, Section 311,             
  Public Law 95-510, as amended, Public Law 99-499; Marine Protection,                 
  Research, and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203.                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The Office of Research and Development (ORD) supports research and                   
  development to determine the environmental effects of air quality, drinking          
  water, water quality, hazardous waste, toxic substances, and pesticides; (2)         
  identify, develop, and demonstrate effective pollution control techniques; and       
  (3) perform risk assessments to characterize the potential adverse health effects    
  of human exposures to environmental hazards, and (4) the facilitation of training    
  and fellowships in these areas. Investigator initiated grants/cooperative            
  agreements may be funded in broad areas such as environmental chemistry and          
  physics, environmental engineering; and health and ecological effects of             
  pollution. The ORD conducts leading-edge research to provide a solid                 
  underpinning of science and technology for the Agency. Applied research builds       
  our understanding of how to protect and enhance the relationship between             
  humans and the ecosystems of earth. ORD conducts a comprehensive research            
  program to protect air, water, land, and human health and ecosystems, to             
  improve environmental compliance and stewardship, and to conduct and                 
  promote coordination and acceleration of training for individuals relating the       
  protection and enhancement of the relationship between humans and the                
  ecosystems of earth as well as to improve environmental compliance and               
  stewardship. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: 1. Clean air research              
  investigates risks associated with exposure to hazardous air pollutants (HAPs)       
  and criteria pollutants, such as particulate matter (PM). Our goal is to work with   
  other Federal and state agencies, major universities and institutions, and the       
  private sector to develop a better understanding of the causes and effects of air    
  pollution, and provide the scientific underpinnings to improve air quality in the    
  U.S. 2. ORD provides the science needed to ensure drinking water is safe and to      
  restore and maintain oceans, watersheds, and aquatic ecosystems to protect           
  human health, support economic and recreational activities, and provide healthy      
  habitats for fish, plants, and wildlife. Our water research program provides the     
  science needed for effectively implementing the Safe Drinking Water Act              
  (SDWA) and Amendments and the Clean Water Act (CWA). 3. Preserving land              
  quality and remediating contaminated land is another of ORD's major goals. Left      
  uncontrolled, hazardous and non-hazardous wastes on land can migrate to the          
  air, ground water, and surface water, contaminating drinking water supplies, and     
  threatening healthy ecosystems in urban, rural, and suburban areas. Efforts to       
  preserve and restore land are supported through contaminated sediments and           
  groundwater research. 4. ORD also continues to better understand environmental       
  risks and develop tools and management options for improving environmental           
  conditions. To promote healthy communities and ecosystems, EPA brings                
  together a variety of programs, including human health research, endocrine           
  disrupters research, computational toxicology research, global change research,      
  pesticides and toxic substances research, and research on homeland security, as      
  well as promoting and facilitating training in these areas to stimulate interest     
  among students in careers involving environmental research and to provide            
  hands-on experience. 5. Finally, ORD EPA has developed and evaluated tools           
  and technologies to monitor, prevent, control, and clean up pollution throughout     
                                                                                       


976                                                                              11-08

  its history. Since the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990, the Agency has
  increasingly focused on preventative and sustainable approaches to health and
  environmental problems. EPA's efforts in this area support research specifically
  designed to address the issue of advancing sustainability goals - EPA's Science
  and Technology for Sustainability (STS) program. Our goal is to work with other
  Federal and state agencies, major universities and institutions, and the private
  sector to develop a better
  understandingofthecausesandeffectsofair pollution, and provide the scientific
  underpinnings to improve air quality in the U.S. 2. ORD provides the science
  needed to ensure drinking water is safe and to restore and maintain oceans,
  watersheds, and aquatic ecosystems to protect human health, support economic
  and recreational activities, and provide healthy habitats for fish, plants, and
  wildlife. Our water research program provides the science needed for effectively
  implementing the Safe Drinking Water Act (SDWA) and Amendments and the
  Clean Water Act (CWA). 3. Preserving land quality and remediating
  contaminated land is another of ORD's major goals. Left uncontrolled,
  hazardous and non-hazardous wastes on land can migrate to the air, ground
  water, and surface water, contaminating drinking water supplies, and threatening
  healthy ecosystems in urban, rural, and suburban areas. Efforts to preserve and
  restore land are supported through contaminated sediments and groundwater
  research. 4. ORD also continues to better understand environmental risks and
  develop tools and management options for improving environmental conditions.
  To promote healthy communities and ecosystems, EPA brings together a variety
  of programs, including human health research, endocrine disrupters research,
  computational toxicology research, global change research, pesticides and toxic
  substances research, and research on homeland security, as well as promoting
  and facilitating training in these areas to stimulate interest among students in
  careers involving environmental research and to provide hands-on experience. 5.
  Finally, ORD EPA has developed and evaluated tools and technologies to
  monitor, prevent, control, and clean up pollution throughout its history. Since
  the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990, the Agency has increasingly focused on
  preventative and sustainable approaches to health and environmental problems.
  EPA's efforts in this area support research specifically designed to address the
  issue of advancing sustainability goals - EPA's Science and Technology for
  Sustainability (STS) program.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds awarded via grants/cooperative agreements are available for allowable
  direct cost expenditures incident to performance of research plus allocable
  portions of allowable indirect costs of the institutions, in accordance with the
  established policies of EPA. Assistance agreement awards under this program
  may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition
  Policy. These programs are available to each State, territory and possession, and
  Tribal nation of the U.S., including the District of Columbia, for public and
  private State universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, State and local
  government departments, other public or private nonprofit institutions, and in
  some cases, individuals or foreign entities who have demonstrated unusually
  high scientific ability.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public nonprofit institutions/organizations and private nonprofit
  institutions/organizations; state and local governments; Federally Recognized
  Indian Tribal Governments; U.S. territories or possessions; anyone/general
  public; education professionals; students/trainees; graduate students;
  scientists/researchers; hospitals; foreign entities; and individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. When applicable, an environmental impact
  assessment is made by the Office of Research and Development as required by
  the National Environmental Protection Act. The standard application forms as
  furnished by the EPA and required by OMB Circulars No. A-102 and No. A-110
  must be used for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Competitive RFAs (requests for applications) for grants in these areas are
