  announced widely through the Federal Register, Internet, university and              
  scientific organizations, among other mechanisms. Although the programs              
  identified are the formal assistance programs that ORD funds, there are periodic     
  RFAs disseminated on other topics that are not part of the formal program.           
  These new programs are also part of 66.510 but cannot be presently identified.       
  Funds may be available to support activities including but not limited to            
  experiments, surveys, studies, investigations, public education programs, and        
  monitoring where authorized by specific statutes, in both science and                
  engineering disciplines. Please check the Federal Register or the EPA/ORD            
  website http://www.epa.gov/ord/htm/grantopportunity.htm for an updated listing       
  of these programs. Completed applications must be submitted to the appropriate       
  Grants Management Office at the Environmental Protection Agency or as shown          
  in the specific RFAs, which are accessible through the EPA/ORD website at            
  http://www.epa.gov/ord/htm/grantopportunity.htm. Please refer to Appendix IV         
  for the complete mailing address(es) for the Grants Management Office(s).            
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for      
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,        
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated     
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance        
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                   
  Customarily, applicants are notified about award decisions within six months of      
  the solicitation deadline. After being recommended for award, applicants will be     
  required to submit additional certifications and an electronic version of the        
  revised project abstarct, and may be requested to provide responses to comments      
  or suggestions offered by the peer reviewers, a revised budget, past performance     
  documentation, and/or make appropraite revisions. EPA Project Officers will          
  contact Principal Investigators to obtain these materials. The official notification 
  of an award will be made by the Agency's Grants and Interagency Agreements           
  Management Division. Before or after award, certain applicants will be expected      
  to provide additional quality assurance documentation.                               
                                                                                       
Deadlines:

  Contact the headquarters office for application deadlines or review the RFAs for     
  specific deadlines.                                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 180 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                               
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in                
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal        
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also         
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."       
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients      
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                  
Renewals:                                                                              
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new         
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and     
  will compete for available funds.                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Grants/cooperative agreements are normally funded on a 12-month basis                
  (annual). Total approved project period may not exceed 5 years.                      
Reports:                                                                               
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in         
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,        
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention         
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations, 40     
  CFR Parts 30 and 31. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant         
  Regulations, 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31.                                                 
Audits:                                                                                
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the       
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,       
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.         
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each          
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,          
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                 
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in       
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

  in OMB Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                       
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting          
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to         
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be              
  maintained until three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure    
  report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related
  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.                  
Account Identification:                                                                


                                                                                  11-08
  68-0107-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $33,200,000; FY 08 est $33,600,000; and FY 09 est $31,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Awards range for new grants/cooperative agreements from $75,000 to $950,000,
  and average $250,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  An estimated 125 grants/cooperative agreements are made each year. Data of the
  number of applications received and the exact number of awards made in the last
  three fiscal years is not available. Summary results of the research are available
  on http://www.epa.gov/researchaccomplishments.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures, Environmental Protection Agency
  (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part 31); Interim Regulations, Research and
  Demonstration Grants, Environmental Protection Agency (40 CFR Part 40).
  "EPA Assistance Administration Manual," available from the National
  Technical Information Service, Springfield, VA 22161 on a subscription basis
  and "EPA and the Academic Community, Solicitation for Grant Proposals."
Regional or Local Office:
  Individuals are encouraged to communicate with the appropriate EPA Regional
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or the contact listed on the RFA.
Headquarters Office:
  For administrative questions on grant applications and procedures, contact Mark
  J. Thomas, at the following address: Environmental Protection Agency, 1200
  Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 564-4763;
  Fax: (202) 565-2903. E-mail: Thomas.Mark @epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/ord/htm/grantopportunity.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.510, Surveys, Studies, Investigations and Special Purpose Grants within the
  Office of Research and Development.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  1) To improve understanding of the relationship between complex mixtures of
  environmental air pollutants and human health through the creation and analysis
  of a database developed by conducting identically designed laboratory studies of
  a small number of highly complex atmospheres having overlapping, but
  different, compositions. 2) To address critical questions concerning health risks,
  toxic metal transformations and pathways, sampling and measurement of toxic
  metal emissions, predictive modeling, and related toxic metal control
  technologies. 3) To conduct research and development on hazardous substance
  waste minimization alternative treatment technologies, and techniques to
  enhance applications of technologies and technology transfer. 4) This research
  will (1) evaluate the efficacy of alternative management strategies for the control
  of insects, nematodes, and weeds that reduce the use of pesticides; (2)
  characterize the environmental fate of nitrogen and synthetic pesticides using
  current and alternative pest management strategies; and (3) develop decision aid
  models that allow utilization of precise control strategies for weeds, insects and
  diseases that are environmentally safe. 5) To develop a predictive map of
  ground level ozone concentrations in the Washington/Baltimore non-attainment
  area by incorporating landscape characteristics and other remote sensing data
  into existing predictive models for ozone impacted urban areas. 6) To provide
  the scientific information, understanding, analyses and methods and protocols
  needed by states and local governments and various regulatory and management
  agencies to effectively protect the aquatic and terrestrial environment, the EPA
  seeks to establish a long term Training Cooperative Partnership with a leading
  research and teaching institution capable of managing an environmental training
  program. The purpose of this agreement is to stimulate interest among students
  in careers involving environmental research and to provide hands-on experience.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. A proposal is
  judged for (A) scientific merit in terms of quality and originality of the proposed
  work, the qualifications of the investigator(s), the adequacy of the quality
  assurance plan, the responsiveness of the proposed research to needs identified
  in the RFA, the appropriateness of the proposed budget, and the probability that
  the project will accomplish stated objectives, and (B) program interest in terms
  of the need for the proposed research and a balanced ORD research portfolio.
  See the Web page for specific criteria.
66.512 REGIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL MONITORING AND
ASSESSMENT PROGRAM (REMAP) RESEARCH
PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL
  PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  The Regional Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program (REMAP) is
                                                                                    977
