  a partnership between the EPA Regional Offices and the Office of Research and       
  Development (ORD) Environmental Monitoring and Assessment Program                   
  (EMAP), with the primary goal to build state and tribal capacity for using          
  statistically valid monitoring data for reporting on the condition of their aquatic 
  resources. The goals for REMAP are to transfer EMAP's latest scientific             
  techniques for ecological monitoring to EPA Regions, States, Tribes and local       
  decision makers. ORD works with the EPA Regional Offices to support projects        
  meeting EMAP criteria and that are of importance to needs within the Regions.       
  EMAP support for these projects includes: contributing to development of the        
  scientific design of projects; assistance with the selection and evaluation of      
  appropriate indicators and methods for measurement; application of information      
  management approaches; analysis and interpretation of data; and providing a         
  source of funding. EPA funds projects in each of its 10 Regions. Projects are       
  normally funded for up to 2 years, but longer projects are occasionally             
  supported. Annual announcements reflect priority needs in those Regions where       
  funding will be allocated for new projects. The primary objectives of the           
  solicited research are to provide States and Tribes with methods and approaches     
  for incorporating statistically valid ecological monitoring data into their         
  environmental decision-making process. Project goals are to be consistent with      
  EMAP's probabilistic approach (www.epa.gov/emap) to answer questions about          
  ecological conditions at regional and local levels. Information produced from       
  projects is to be transferable to Regional, State and Tribal water quality          
  monitoring programs and regulatory agencies. Research proposals must address        
  one or more of the following monitoring needs for State and tribal aquatic          
  (headwater streams, lakes, near shore coastal areas, wetlands, wadeable streams     
  or large rivers) resources: State and Tribal monitoring needs for water quality     
  reporting (CWA Section 305b). Information needed for identifying impaired           
  waters (CWA Section 303d). Using probability information to identify the            
  effectiveness of restoration/remediation efforts. Advancing the science of          
  biological reference condition for establishing biocriteria. Improved tools and     
  approaches for the assessment of aquatic ecosystems. Funding Priority - Fiscal      
  Year 2008: At this time, it is not anticipated that there will be a new funding     
  opportunity for 2008. Funding Priority-Fiscal Year 2009. It is anticipated that     
  there will be a new funding opportunity for 2009. Priorities will be identified in  
  a later update to this CFDA. Detailed background information is provided in the     
  2006 solicitation. Proposals for probabilistic assessments of headwater streams,    
  lakes, near shore coastal areas, wetlands, wadable streams or large rivers that     
  answer questions of State and Tribal importance in Regions 3, 4, 6 and 7 will be    
  considered. However, selection criteria will be weighted towards the above 5        
  priority areas. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2007: For the FY 07 solicitation,    
  funding will be available for projects in EPA Regions 2, 5, 8, 9, and 10.           
  Funding priorities for these Regions will be identified and described in the        
  annual announcement.                                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Information produced from projects is to be transferable to US EPA Regions,         
  and State and Tribal water quality monitoring programs and regulatory agencies.     
    Data from research results may also be incorporated into larger scale objectives  
  within ORD's EMAP research program. Research projects usually result in             
  geospatial information. In compliance with Executive Order 12906, REMAP             
  data is made available for use throughout all levels of government, the private     
  and non-profit sectors, and the academic community. The goal of this                
  infrastructure is to reduce duplication of effort among agencies, improve quality   
  and reduce costs related to geographic information, to make geographic data         
  more accessible to the public, to increase the benefits of using available data,    
  and to establish key partnerships with states, counties, cities, tribal nations,    
  academia and the private sector to increase data availability. Awards are made in   
  response to announced requests for applications. Funds are awarded via              
  cooperative agreements for allowable direct cost expenditures incident to the       
  performance of research plus allocable portions of allowable indirect costs of the  
  institution, in accordance with the established policies and regulations of EPA.    
  No construction costs are allowed in this agreement. Foreign travel is not          
  allowed unless specifically agreed upon. No large capital equipment items, such     
  as vehicles or boats, will be allowed for purchase under these agreements.          
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to             
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information        
                                                                                      
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the      
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible           
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition            
  Policy. Entities that are eligible to receive federal assistance under the Clean    
                                                                                      
  Water Act which includes the States, their territories and possessions, local

                                                                                      
  governments and federally recognized U.S. Tribal Nations (40 CFR part 31);

                                                                                      
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit organizations (40

                                                                                      
  CFR part 30). Eligible nonprofit organizations include any organizations that

                                                                                      
  meet the definition of nonprofit in OMB Circular A-122. Nonprofit applicants

                                                                                      
  that are recommended for funding will be subject to pre-award administrative

                                                                                      
  capability reviews consistent with Sections 8.b, 8.c, and 9.d of EPA Order

978                                                                             11-08

  5700.8. Non-profit organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal
  Revenue Code that engage in lobbying activities, as defined in Section 3 of the
  Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995, are not eligible to apply. Universities and
  educational institutions must be subject to OMB Circular A-21.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public nonprofit institutions/organizations and private nonprofit
  institutions/organizations located in the U.S.; state and local governments;
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments; U.S. territories or possessions;
  Anyone/General Public, Education Professional, Student/Trainee, Graduate
  Student, Scientists/Researchers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants are required to provide a Dun and Bradstreet (D&B) Data Universal
  Numbering System (DUNS) number when applying for Federal grants or
  cooperative agreements. Organizations can receive a DUNS number, at no cost,
  by calling the dedicated toll-free DUNS Number request line at 1-866-705-5711
  or through http://www.dnb.com. Applicants are required to submit an
  Application for Federal assistance and Budget Information (SF-424 AND SF-
  424A), Assurances for Non-Construction Programs (SF-424B), Certificate
  regarding lobbying, EPA forms 5700-54 and 4700-4, A project and budget
  narrative including documents of Environmental Results Past Performance and
  Programmatic Capability. Other pertinent documentation may be required. A
  complete description and instructions for application submission will be
  provided in the funding announcement.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Electronic application must be made through http://www.grants.gov/ using the
  application package available at that web site for electronic submissions.
  Complete application information is provided in the annual RFA. Applicants
  may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  The deadline for applications will be stated in the Requests for Applications and
  will not be less than 45 days from the date that it is posted on grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 days for the application to be approved or disapproved.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects periods and funding is normally on a 2 year basis. Longer projects are
  occassional supported. Expected project and funding periods will vary between
  funding priorities and will be identified in the annual funding announcement.
  EPA reserves the right to fully, incrementally or partially fund a project.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations, 40
  CFR Parts 30 and 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
