  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31 are applicable          
  depending upon the identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep financial        
  records, including all documents supporting entries on accounting records, and      
  substantiate changes in grants available to personnel authorized to examine EPA     
  recipients' grants and cooperative agreements records. Award recipients must        
  agree to make methods, models, and data resulting from this agreement               
  accessible to the public and to EPA. All records must be maintained until           
  expiration of three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure      
  report. If questions remain, such as those raised as a result of an audit, following
  the 3-year period, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely    
  resolved.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  68-0107-0-1-304.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $2,210,173; FY 08 est. $767,500; FY 09 est. $900,000. FY 08 Funding           
  was placed on awards made in response to FY 07 Funding Priorities.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  The average financial assistance for 2006 awards on new projects was $409,000       
  with a range of $192,000 to $575,000. The financial assistance for awards           
  resulting from the 2007 RFA competition are pending and are expected to be          
  funded in FY 2008.                                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The REMAP program has made significant advances and contributions in the            
  development of monitoring and assessment tools and protocols. The technical         
  support and collaborative expertise with ORD has enabled regions to integrate       
  these scientific advances into stakeholder programs. With this assistance and       
  partnership the regions have been able to provide the agency with defensible        
  credible data on environmental condition in a more cost effective and timely        
  manner. REMAP emphasizes that project designs employ the EMAP                       
  probabilistic approach. This allows for a statistically-valid and defensible        
  framework to report on the condition of resources which is consistent with          
  EPA's long term goal 1 "Developing statistically-valid and defensible               
  frameworks to assess status and trends of ecosystem condition at national

  scales". In 2007, 12 eligible applications were received and 4 projects were

                                                                                      
  funded. In FY 2008 no RFA was issued and thus no new applications were

  received or funded. FY 2008 obligations were placed against those projects          
  approved and funded initially in FY 2007. Current awards, projects, progress        
  reports and any outputs are available on REMAP's home page

                                                                                      
  (www.epa.gov/emap/remap). Currently resulted in the posting of fish                 
  consumption health advisories across the region. A current project in New           
  England will enable researchers to revisit the distribution of mercury              
  contamination and thus be able to provide trend information. Probability-based      
  Monitoring Within Nebraska's Rotating Basin Assessment: EPA Region 7,               
  EPA-ORD, and the Nebraska Department of Environmental Quality initiated a           
  REMAP effort in 1997 that is still ongoing today. The State of Nebraska realized    
  it had an assessment problem because it was negatively biasing its sampling         
  results by targeting a large portion of its monitoring resources to waters with     
  suspected problems. Because of this targeted monitoring, it was impossible for      
  the State to make an unbiased assessment of the status and/or trends of its         
  stream resources for the State's bi-annual water quality ("305b") assessment        
  report. To solve this problem, the State decided that a new monitoring approach     
  was needed and in 1997 began to use a "EMAP-type" probability based                 
  sampling design within its rotating basin assessment framework. By employing        
  both the probability-based design and its associated data analyses methods, the     
  state is able to produce unbiased estimates of its stream resources with a known    
  level of confidence. Current projects, progress reports and any outputs are         
  available on REMAP's home page(www.epa.gov/emap/remap).                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  EPA's General Grant Regulations, 40 CFR Part 31; EPA's Interim Regulations,         
  Research and Demonstration Grants, 40 CFR Part 40. Costs will be determined         
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and        
  Indian Tribes and OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions.               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Individuals are encouraged to communicate with the appropriate ORD or               
  Regional Office listed on REMAP's website at www.epa.gov/emap/remap, and            
  listed in the RFA for this program.                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  For technical information on grant applications and procedures, contact Jo

                                                                                      
  Thompson, at the following address: Environmental Protection Agency, Mid-

                                                                                      
  Continent Ecology Division, 6201 Congdon Boulevard, Duluth, MN 55804.

                                                                                      
  Commercial Telephone: (218) 529-5198, Fax: (218) 529-5015. Government E-

                                                                                      
  mail: Thompson.jo@epa.gov. For administrative questions contact Larry

                                                                                      
  Hodgson, Telephone: (740)-654-2346, Government E-mail:

                                                                                      
  Hodgson.Larry@epa.gov.

                                                                                      
Web Site Address:



                                                                                 11-08
  http://www.epa.gov/emap/remap/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Designing and Implementing a Program to Evaluate New England's Lakes
  and Ponds: Currently, there is not a statistically-valid design in place to perform
  a comprehensive and unbiased assessment of New England lakes and ponds.
  This study is addressing that need in order to meet 305b reporting requirements
  and provide information on status and trends of these ecosystems. (2) Validation
  and Sensitivity Analysis for Rapid Wetland Assessment using Comprehensive
  Wetland Assessment Data: This project is addressing the need for methods to
  assess and report on the ecological condition of wetlands in the State of
  Delaware. (3) A Biological Assessment of the Large Rivers of the Upper
  Mississippi and Ohio River Basins in Region 5: There is currently no
  statistically valid method to assess large rivers. This study is developing
  calibrated biological assessment tools and designing a systematic and
  standardized approach for the assessment of these large river systems. (4)
  Developing rigorous assessments for large Pacific Northwest rivers. The purpose
  of this project is to document the feasibility, logistics, and costs to states of
  using EMAP indicators and designs to assess the ecological condition, major
  stressors, and likely human disturbances of entire main-stem rivers in the Pacific
  Northwest in Region 10. (5) Development of Benthic Indicators for Nearshore
  Coastal Waters of New Jersey. This study is Developing of an indicator of
  ecosystem health for the benthic community in the estuarine and nearshore
  waters of New Jersey in Region 2.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Competitive
  applications and proposals will be selected in accordance with announced
  criteria. Generally, the proposals will be judged for (A) Extent to which projects
  addresses Regional priority areas identified in the announcement, partnerships
  and transferability of project results to Regional, State and Tribal stakeholders,
  and consistency with REMAP objectives and EPA's strategic goals; and (B)
  Technical issues including the identification of plan for tracking outputs and
  environmental outcomes and evaluating the applicant's past performance in
  reporting on outputs and outcomes. Specific criteria and weight of criteria are
  listed in the annual announcement.
66.513 GREATER RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES (GRO)
FELLOWSHIPS FOR UNDERGRADUATE/GRADUATE
ENVIRONMENTAL STUDY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL
  PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Section 102(2)(F); Clean Air Act,
  Section 103, 42 U.S.C. 7403; Clean Water Act, Section 104, 33 U.S.C.; Solid
  Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001, 42 U.S.C. 6981; Safe Drinking Water Act,
  Section 1442, 42 U.S.C. 300j-1; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
  Act, Section 20, 7 U.S.C. 136r; Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10, 15
  U.S.C. 2609.
OBJECTIVES:
  The National Center for Environmental Research (NCER) offers graduate and
  undergraduate fellowships to students in environmentally related fields of study.
  This program is intended to strengthen the environmental research capacity of
  institutions of higher education that receive limited funding to build such
  capacity. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: The Greater Research
  Opportunities Fellowship Program will support graduate fellowships in the
  following areas: Environmental Engineering (limited to pollution prevention;
  includes sustainability); Environmental Engineering (limited to treatment and
  remediation); Atmospheric Sciences; Environmental Chemistry and
  Environmental Materials Science; Hydrogeology; Economics (includes market
  incentives and health and ecosystem valuation); Environmental Decision-
  Making Research (limited to projects in community-based participatory
  research, intervention strategies, environmental behavior modification,
  environmental education, and environmental justice); Urban/Regional Planning
  and Geography (includes GIS, demography); Microbiology; Molecular Biology
  (includes genomics, proteomics, toxicodynamics, toxicology, and
  bioinformatics); Public Health Sciences (includes environmental epidemiology,
  biostatistics, and health physics); Human Health Risk Assessment; Aquatic
  Systems Ecology focusing on freshwater endpoints; Coastal and Estuarine
  Processes (limited to pollution research such as harmful algal blooms);
  Terrestrial Systems Ecology (limited to soils and plants that can serve as a
  medium for contaminant transport); Terrestrial Systems Ecology (work should
  relate to pollutant effects on animals and/or habitat). All projects must describe
  the relationship of these topic areas to the statutorily required purpose of
  pollution prevention and/or control. The Greater Research Opportunities
  Fellowship Program will support undergraduate fellowships in the following
                                                                                   979
