  areas: Natural and Life Sciences; Environmental Science; Engineering; Social          
  Sciences; Physical Sciences; Mathematics and Computer Science; and                    
  Economics.escribe the relationship of these topic areas to the statutorily required   
  purpose of pollution prevention and/or control. The Greater Research                  
  Opportunities Fellowship Program will support undergraduate fellowships in the        
  following areas: Natural and Life Sciences; Environmental Science;                    
  Engineering; Social Sciences; Physical Sciences; Mathematics and Computer             
  Science; and Economics.                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Fellowship awards are made in response to competitive solicitations. Funds are        
  to provide resources to allow for fellowships related to environmental issues. No     
  matching funds are required. Assistance agreement awards under this program           
  may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding        
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:              
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the        
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible             
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition              
  Policy.Graduate Fellowships: Applicants must attend a fully accredited U.S.           
  college or university (located in the U.S. or its territories). Individuals must be   
  citizens of the United States or its territories or possessions, or be lawfully       
  admitted to the United States for permanent residence. Resident aliens must           
  include their green card number in their pre-application. Resident aliens must        
  have their green card at the time of application to be eligible for this Fellowship   
  opportunity. EPA may verify this number with the U.S. Citizenship and                 
  Immigration Service of the Department of Homeland Security. Applicants                
  attending fully accredited four year U.S. institutions of higher education are        
  eligible to apply. These schools must be among those that are not highly funded       
  for development of environmental research capacity. For the purposes of this          
  CFDA, EPA considers such institutions to be those listed in the National Science      
  Foundation's publication, "Federal Science and Engineering Support to                 
  Universities, Colleges, and Nonprofit Institutions: FY 2004," Table 11.               
  Institutions identified as receiving $35 million or less in annual federal research   
  and development funding, as designated in column 2 of Table 11, are eligible.         
  These data can be found at:                                                           
  http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/nsf07316/pdf/tab11.pdf. Table 11 is a broad             
  representation of institutions, and includes schools that also receive more than      
  $35 million annually in Federal research assistance. Applicants attending             
  eligible institutions with substantial minority enrollment are particularly           
  encouraged to apply. Examples of such schools are those that the U.S.                 
  Department of Education lists as "Accredited Postsecondary Minority                   
  Institutions" consistent with Executive Orders 13125 (Increasing Participation of     
  Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders), 13230 (Educational Excellence for             
  Hispanic Americans), 13256 (Historically Black Colleges and Universities), and        
  13270 (Tribal Colleges and Universities), which encourage building of the             
  capacity of minority serving institutions to provide high quality education. Note     
  however, that not all of these schools receive less then $35 million annually in      
  Federal Research and Development expenditures. For specific information               
  regarding Federal funding to minority-serving institutions, see The Extent of         
  Federal S&E Funding to Minority-Serving Institutions, at                              
  http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/infbrief/nsf04325/nsf04325.pdf. Applicants who          
  are in a graduate program at the time of application and meet either of the           
  following two criteria as of October 23, 2007 ARE NOT eligible to receive a           
  fellowship: (1) have completed more than one year in your current master's            
  program; or (2) have completed more than four years in your current doctoral          
  program. However, applicants enrolled in a master's program who intend to             
  pursue a doctoral degree beginning in the fall of 2008 may apply for a doctoral       
  fellowship. Acceptance of this fellowship does not necessarily preclude               
  acceptance of another scholarship, fellowship, traineeship, or grant aid.             
  However, this fellowship does preclude receiving other federal fellowships.           
  Employees of the U.S. government may apply, but must be able to prove                 
  separation from Federal service before accepting this fellowship. Undergraduate       
  Fellowships: Applicants must attend a fully accredited U.S. college or university     
  (located in the U.S. or its territories). Individuals must be citizens of the U.S. or 
  its territories or possessions, or be lawfully admitted to the United States for      
  permanent residence. Resident aliens must include their green card number in          
  their pre-application. Resident aliens must have their green card at the time of      
  application                                                                           
  tobeeligibleforthisFellowship opportunity. EPA may verify this number with the        
  U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service of the Department of Homeland                
  Security. Applicants attending fully accredited four year U.S. institutions of        
  higher education are eligible to apply. These schools must be among those that        
  are not highly funded for development of environmental research capacity. For         
  the purposes of this solicitation, EPA considers such institutions to be those        
  listed in the National Science Foundation's publication "Federal Science and          
  Engineering Support to Universities, Colleges, and Nonprofit Institutions: FY         
  2004," Table 11. Institutions identified as receiving $35 million or less in annual   
980                                                                               11-08

  federal research and development funding as designated in column 2 of Table
  11, are eligible. These data can be found at:
  http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/nsf07316/pdf/tab11.pdf. Table 11 is a broad
  representation of institutions, and includes schools that also receive more than
  $35 million annually in Federal research assistance. Applicants attending
  eligible institutions with substantial minority enrollment are particularly
  encouraged to apply. Examples of such schools are those that the U.S.
  Department of Education lists as "Accredited Postsecondary Minority
  Institutions" consistent with Executive Orders 13125 (Increasing Participation of
  Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders), 13230 (Educational Excellence for
  Hispanic Americans), 13256 (Historically Black Colleges and Universities), and
  13270 (Tribal Colleges and Universities), which encourage building of the
  capacity of minority serving institutions to provide high quality education. Note
  however, that not all of these schools receive less then $35 million annually in
  Federal Research and Development expenditures. For specific information
  regarding Federal funding to minority-serving institutions, see The Extent of
  Federal S&E Funding to Minority-Serving Institutions, at
  http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/infbrief/nsf04325/nsf04325.pdf . Regarding
  students who are attending community college, note that only those that are
  either four-year baccalaureate-granting institutions with degree programs in one
  or more eligible academic fields, or two year institutions that grant associate
  degrees and participate in Articulation Agreements with four-year institutions,
  are eligible to participate in this fellowship program. An Articulation Agreement
  is a signed contract between a community or technical college and a four-year
  college or university that guarantees that a student who earns an associate degree
  at a participating two-year institution can transfer all of the general education
  core credits to the four-year institution toward the completion of baccalaureate
  degree requirements. Students must be pursuing a bachelor's degree in an
  environmentally related field of specialization. Students must have two academic
  years remaining as of Fall 2008 before receiving a bachelor's degree. Students
  must have at least a "B" average overall. Acceptance of this fellowship does not
  necessarily preclude acceptance of another scholarship, fellowship, traineeship,
  or grant aid. However, this fellowship does preclude receiving other federal
  fellowships. The term of the undergraduate fellowship is negotiated with the
  student and covers a period of nine months for each fellowship year. Students
  seeking a bachelor's degree may be supported for a maximum of two years.
  Employees of the U.S. government must be able to prove separation from
  Federal service before accepting this fellowship.a bachelor's degree may be
  supported for a maximum of two years. Employees of the U.S. government must
  be able to prove separation from Federal service before accepting this
  fellowship. See solicitations at http://www.epa.gov/ncer for additional
  information pertaining to eligibility requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individual/Family; Student/Trainee; and Graduate Student.
Credentials/Documentation:
  EPA may request that fellows document their affiliation with an eligible
  institution. The EPA may also request that applicants demonstrate they have
  appropriate background, academic training, and experience in the field to carry
  out the fellowship.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. NCER invites pre-applications for graduate and
  undergraduate fellowships in academic disciplines relating to environmental
  research including engineering, public health, and ecological sciences. A pre-
  application provides the information needed for the review of its merit.
  Following the merit review, top rated applicants will be required to submit a
  brief formal application. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  For regular mail, completed paper pre-applications must be submitted to the
  following address: Environmental Protection Agency, Peer Review Division
  (8725F); Funding Opportunity Number: (include appropriate number as shown
  in the solicitation),1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460.
  For express mail and couriers, completed paper pre-applications must be
  submitted to the following address: Environmental Protection Agency, Peer
  Review Division (8725F), Funding Opportunity Number: (include appropriate
  number as shown in the solicitation); 1025 F Street, N.W., (Room 3500)
  ,Washington, DC 20004, Telephone: (202) 233-0686. Specific details on the
  application process are described in the solicitations which are located at:
  http://www.epa.gov/ncer. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov
  to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
