Deadlines:                                                                             
  As shown in the specific solicitations, which are accessible through the             
  EPA/ORD/NCER website at http://www.epa.gov/ncer.                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 210 days from the close of the solicitation.                           
Appeals:                                                                               
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in                
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal        
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also         
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."       
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients      
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                  
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  For undergraduate fellowships, the term of the fellowship is negotiated with the     
  student and covers a period of nine months for each fellowship year. Students        
  seeking a bachelor's degree may be supported for a maximum of two years. The         
  term of the graduate fellowship is also negotiated with the student and              
  customarily covers a period of 9 to 12 months for each fellowship year. Students     
  seeking a master's degree may be supported for a maximum of two years.               
  Students seeking doctoral degrees may receive support for a maximum of three         
  years, available over a four-year period. If selected to receive a fellowship, you   
  will be contacted no later than seven months after the close of the solicitation     
  and should subsequently receive your official notification of award by no later      
  than 9 months after the close of the solicitation for the fall term. Please note that
  this schedule may be changed without notification due to factors that were not       
  anticipated at the time of announcement. The official notification of an award       
  will be made by the EPA's Grants and Interagency Agreement Management                
  Division.                                                                            
Reports:                                                                               
  EPA includes reporting requirements for fellowships in the terms and conditions      
  of the agreements. Agreements may require annual reports, final progress             
  reports, expenditure/financial, equipment, and invention reports. Reporting          
  requirements are also identified in the fellowship regulations, 40 CFR Part 46.      
Audits:                                                                                
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the       
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,       
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.         
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each          
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,

  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit

                                                                                       
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in

  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:                                                                               
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 46 are applicable. All records      
  related to a fellowship agreement must be maintained for three years after the       
  completion date inserted on the "Completion of Studies Notice" (EPA Form             
  5770-9). EPA, the Inspector General, Comptroller General of the United States,       
  or any of their duly authorized representatives, has the right of timely and         
  unrestricted access to documents, papers, or other records related to a fellowship,  
  in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, transcripts and copies of such      
  documents. The rights of access in this paragraph are not limited to the required    
  retention period, but shall last as long as records are retained.                    
Account Identification:                                                                
  68-0107-0-1-304.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $1,520,700; FY 08 est $1,529,000; and FY 09 est $2,066,000.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Graduate- A maximum of $74,000 will be provided for master's fellows (two            
  years) and up to $111,000 (three years) for doctoral fellows. Awards range from      
  $55,000 to $111,000 total per fellowship and average $33,386 per                     
  year.Undergraduate- The fellowship provides up to $17,000 per year of                
  academic support and $7,500 for internship support for a combined total of up        
  to $41,500 over the life of the fellowship. Awards range from $30,000 to             
  $41,500 total per fellowship and average $35,000 total.                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Applications received for the Greater Research Opportunities Fellowship              
  Program (Graduate)- FY 07: 107; FY 08: 116. New awards for the Greater               
  Research Opportunities Fellowship Program (Graduate)- FY 07: 14.                     
  Applications received for the Greater Research Opportunities Fellowship              
  Program (Undergraduate)- FY 07: 28; FY 08: 41. New awards for the Greater            
  Research Opportunities Fellowship Program (Undergraduate)- FY 07: 15.                
  Abstracts of awards and summary results of the research are available on the         
  NCER homepage: http://www.epa.gov/ncer.                                              


                                                                                  11-08
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Fellowship Regulations, Environmental Protection Agency (40 CFR Part 46).
Regional or Local Office:
  Applicants are encouraged to communicate with the appropriate EPA Regional
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or the contacts listed in the
  solicitations. Solicitations are located at: http://www.epa.gov/ncer.
Headquarters Office:
  To obtain further information via the Internet for the Greater Research
  Opportunities Fellowship Program, click on "Fellowships" at
  http://www.epa.gov/ncer.For additional information pertaining to graduate
  fellowships, please contact: Stephanie Willett; Telephone: (202) 343-9737; Fax:
  (202) 233-0680; 1025 F Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20004; E-mail:
  willett.stephanie@epa.gov. E-mail inquiries are preferred. For additional
  information pertaining to undergraduate fellowships, please contact: Georgette
  Boddie; Telephone: (202) 343-9741; Fax: (202) 233-0680; E-mail:
  boddie.georgette@epa.gov; 1025 F Street, N.W., Washington, DC 20004. E-
  mail inquiries are preferred.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/ncer.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.514, Science To Achieve Results (STAR) Fellowship Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Examine acute and chronic effects of propanil and its metabolites on T cell
  function and activation. Propanil is a widely used herbicide with over 7 million
  pounds applied per year and its effects on T cell immune function have not been
  established. (2) Utilize an approach called chemical toxicity distributions
  (CTDs) to assess the sensitivity of common indicators of endocrine toxicity. (3)
  Test whether the incidence of gastrointestinal disease in bathers in recreational
  marine waters of Puerto Rico is associated with exposure to microbiological
  contaminants. (4) Determine whether the degree of urbanization affects
  communities of aquatic organisms and how environmental factors related to
  urbanization (land cover, water quality, aquatic habitat) mechanistically relate to
  aquatic community composition. (5) Evaluate the biogeochemical processes in
  the proximity of plant roots that can support degradation of chlorinated ethenes
  in the shallow subsurface environment of a constructed wetland. See Web Page
  (http://www.epa.gov/ncer) for information on previously funded projects under
  the Greater Research Opportunities Fellowship Program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. See the Web
  page (http://www.epa.gov/ncer) for additional information on the evaluative
  criteria for the RFAs.
66.514 SCIENCE TO ACHIEVE RESULTS (STAR)
FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL
  PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Section 102(2)(F); Clean Air Act,
  Section 103, 42 U.S.C. 7403; Clean Water Act, Section 104, 33 U.S.C.; Solid
  Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001, 42 U.S.C. 6981; Safe Drinking Water Act,
  Section 1442, 42 U.S.C. 300j-1; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
  Act, Section 20, 7 U.S.C. 136r; Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10, 15
  U.S.C. 2609.
OBJECTIVES:
  The National Center for Environmental Research (NCER), as part of its Science
  to Achieve Results (STAR) program, offers graduate fellowships for master's
  and doctoral level students in environmentally related fields of study. The
  purpose of the fellowship program is to encourage promising students to obtain
  advanced degrees and pursue careers in environmentally related fields. This goal
  is consistent with the mission of EPA, which is to provide leadership in the
  nation's environmental science, research, education, assessment, restoration, and
  preservation efforts. This program will benefit both the public and private
  sectors which will need a steady stream of well-trained environmental specialists
  if society is to meet the environmental challenges of the future. These
  fellowships are intended to help defray costs associated with advanced
  environmentally-oriented study leading to a master's or doctoral degree. Funding
  Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: The STAR Fellowship Program will support
  graduate fellowships in the following areas: Environmental Engineering (limited
  to pollution prevention; includes sustainability); Environmental Engineering
  (limited to treatment and remediation); Atmospheric Sciences; Environmental
  Chemistry and Environmental Materials Science; Hydrogeology; Economics
  (includes market incentives and health and ecosystem valuation); Environmental
  Decision-Making Research (limited to projects in community-based
  participatory research, intervention strategies, environmental behavior
  modification, environmental education, and environmental justice);
  Urban/Regional Planning and Geography (includes GIS, demography);
  Microbiology; Molecular Biology (includes genomics, proteomics,
                                                                                    981
