  toxicodynamics, toxicology, and bioinformatics); Public Health Sciences              
  (includes environmental epidemiology, biostatistics, and health physics); Human      
  Health Risk Assessment; Aquatic Systems Ecology focusing on freshwater               
  endpoints; Coastal and Estuarine Processes (limited to pollution research such as    
  harmful algal blooms); Terrestrial Systems Ecology (limited to soils and plants      
  that can serve as a medium for contaminant transport); Terrestrial Systems           
  Ecology (work should relate to pollutant effects on animals and/or habitat). All     
  projects must describe the relationship of these topic areas to the statutorily      
  required purpose of pollution prevention and/or control. l and Estuarine             
  Processes (limited to pollution research such as harmful algal blooms);              
  Terrestrial Systems Ecology (limited to soils and plants that can serve as a         
  medium for contaminant transport); Terrestrial Systems Ecology (work should          
  relate to pollutant effects on animals and/or habitat). All projects must describe   
  the relationship of these topic areas to the statutorily required purpose of         
  pollution prevention and/or control.                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  All STAR fellowship awards are made in response to a competitive solicitation.       
  Funds are to provide resources to allow for fellowships related to environmental     
  issues. No matching funds are required. Assistance agreement awards under this       
  program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information         
  regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following            
  website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the       
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible            
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition             
  Policy. Applicants must attend a fully accredited U.S. college or university         
  (located in the U.S. or its territories). Individuals must be citizens of the United 
  States or its territories or possessions, or be lawfully admitted to the United      
  States for permanent residence. Resident aliens must include their green card        
  number in their pre-application. Resident alien applicants must have their green     
  card at the time of application to be eligible for this Fellowship opportunity.      
  EPA may verify this number with the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service         
  of the Department of Homeland Security. Applicants do not need to be enrolled        
  in or formally accepted in a full-time graduate program at the time they apply for   
  a fellowship, but proof of enrollment or acceptance must be produced prior to        
  the award of the fellowship. Applicants must be pursuing a master's or doctoral      
  degree in an environmental field of specialization. Applicants who are in a          
  graduate program at the time of application and meet either of the following two     
  criteria as of October 23, 2007 ARE NOT eligible to receive a fellowship: 1)         
  have completed more than one year in your current master's program; or 2) have       
  completed more than four years in your current doctoral program. However,            
  applicants enrolled in a master's program who intend to pursue a doctoral degree     
  beginning in the fall of 2008 may apply for a doctoral fellowship. Acceptance of     
  this fellowship does not necessarily preclude acceptance of another scholarship,     
  fellowship, traineeship, or grant aid. However, this fellowship does preclude        
  receiving other federal fellowships. Employees of the U.S. government may            
  apply, but must be able to prove separation from Federal service before              
  accepting this fellowship.                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Individual/Family; Student/Trainee; and Graduate Student.                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  EPA may request that fellows document their affiliation with an eligible             
  institution. The EPA may also request that applicants demonstrate they have          
  appropriate background, academic training, and experience in the field to carry      
  out the fellowship.                                                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive        
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify     
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be      
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional              
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see       
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. NCER invites pre-applications for graduate               
  fellowships in academic disciplines relating to environmental research including     
  engineering, public health, and ecological sciences. A pre-application provides      
  the information needed for the review of its merit. Following the merit review,      
  top rated applicants will be required to submit a brief formal application. This     
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                  
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  For regular mail, completed paper pre-applications must be submitted to the          
  following address: Environmental Protection Agency, Peer Review Division             
  (8725F),Funding Opportunity Number: (include appropriate number as shown in          
  the solicitation), 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460. For         
  express mail and couriers, completed paper pre-applications must be submitted        
  to the following address: Environmental Protection Agency, Peer Review               
  Division (8725F), Funding Opportunity Number: (include appropriate number            
  as shown in the solicitation), 1025 F Street, N.W., (Room 3500),Washington,          
                                                                                       
  DC 20004,Phone: (202) 233-0686. Specific details on the application process is



982                                                                              11-08

  described in the solicitation which is located at: http://www.epa.gov/ncer.
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  As shown in the solicitation, which is accessible through the EPA/ORD/NCER
  website at http://www.epa.gov/ncer.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 210 days from the close of the solicitation.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The term of a graduate fellowship is negotiated with students and customarily
  covers a period of 9 to 12 months for each fellowship year. Students seeking a
  master's degree may be supported for a maximum of two years. Students seeking
  doctoral degrees may receive support for a maximum of three years, available
  over a period of four years. If selected to receive a fellowship, you will be
  contacted no later than seven months after the close of the solicitation and
  should subsequently receive your official notification of award by no later than 9
  months after the close of the solicitation for the fall term. Please note that this
  schedule may be changed without notification due to factors that were not
  anticipated at the time of announcement. The official notification of an award
  will be made by the EPA's Grants and Interagency Agreement Management
  Division.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for fellowships in the terms and conditions
  of the agreements. Agreements may require annual reports, final progress
  reports, expenditure/financial, equipment, and invention reports. Reporting
  requirements are also identified in the fellowship regulations, 40 CFR Part 46.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 46 are applicable. All records
  related to a fellowship agreement must be maintained for three years after the
  completion date inserted on the "Completion of Studies Notice" (EPA Form
  5770-9). EPA, the Inspector General, Comptroller General of the United States,
  or any of their duly authorized representatives, has the right of timely and
  unrestricted access to documents, papers, or other records related to a fellowship,
  in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, transcripts and copies of such
  documents. The rights of access in this paragraph are not limited to the required
  retention period, but shall last as long as records are retained.
Account Identification:
  68-0107-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $9,100,000; FY 08 est. $7,200,000; and FY 09 est. $5,875,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  A maximum of $74,000 will be provided for master's fellows (two years) and up
  to $111,000 (three years) for doctoral fellows. Awards range from $55,000 to
  $111,000 total per fellowship and average $80,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Applications received for the STAR Fellowship Program - FY 07: 989; FY 08:
  878. New Awards for the STAR Fellowship Program - FY 07: 68. Abstracts of
  awards and summary results of the research are available on the NCER
  homepage: http://www.epa.gov/ncer.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Fellowship Regulations, Environmental Protection Agency (40 CFR Part 46).
Regional or Local Office:
