  Applicants are encouraged to communicate with the appropriate EPA Regional          
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or the contact listed in the            
  solicitation. The solicitation is located at: http://www.epa.gov/ncer.              
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  To obtain further information via the Internet for the STAR Fellowship Program,     
  click on "Fellowships" at http://www.epa.gov/ncer. Further information, if          
  needed, may also be obtained from Stephanie Willett; Telephone: (202) 343-          
  9737; fax: (202) 233-0680; E-mail: willett.stephanie@epa.gov.; 1025 F Street,       
  N.W.Washington, DC 20004. E-Mail inquiries are preferred.                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/ncer .                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  66.513, Greater Research Opportunities (GRO) Fellowships For                        
  Undergraduate/Graduate Environmental Study.                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  (1) Study how cropping patterns on local and regional scales affect insect          
  outbreaks in agriculture. The research will combine field studies and               
  environmental modeling to anticipate insecticide usage where cropping patterns      
  are changing. (2) Investigate the ecological outcomes of discharging wastewater     
  effluent into streams with varying hydrologic regimes and analyze the policy        
  frameworks driving this current practice. (3) Develop wastewater testing and        
  treatment methods for the detection and removal of pharmaceuticals from             
  wastewater. (4) Examine the link between extreme temperatures and elevated          
  ozone pollution as a cause of increased risk of death. (5) Study the impacts of     
  different urban land use types on mercury pollution in stormwater runoff. See       
  Web Page (http://www.epa.gov/ncer) for additional information on previously         
  funded projects under the STAR Fellowship Program.                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA        
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. See the Web          
  page (http://www.epa.gov/ncer) for additional information on the evaluative         
  criteria for this RFA.                                                              
                                                                                      
66.515 GREATER RESEARCH OPPORTUNITIES (GRO)                                           
                                                                                      
RESEARCH PROGRAM

                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL                                   
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Section 102(2)(F); Clean Air Act,        
  Section 103, 42 U.S.C. 7403; Clean Water Act, Section 104, 33 U.S.C.; Solid         
  Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001, 42 U.S.C. 6981; Safe Drinking Water Act,          
  Section 1442, 42 U.S.C. 300j-1; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide     
  Act, Section 20, 7 U.S.C. 136r; Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10, 15        
  U.S.C. 2609.                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  EPA's National Center for Environmental Research (NCER) is interested in            
  stimulating and nurturing environmental research and educational opportunities      
  at educational institutions that are not highly funded for development of           
  environmental research capacity. Increased resources not only will enable such      
  institutions to better serve their student populations, but also use the strategic  
  positions in their communities to provide critical information and to develop and   
  implement risk communication strategies. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008:       
  At this time, it is not anticipated that there will be a new funding opportunity for
  FY 2008.                                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Awards are made in response to an announced competitive request for                 
  applications (RFA). Funds awarded via grant agreements are available for            
  allowable direct cost expenditures incident to the performance of research plus     
  allocable portions of allowable indirect costs of the institutions, in accordance   
  with established EPA policies and regulations. Assistance agreement awards          
  under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further         
  information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the         
  following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the      
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible           
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition            
  Policy. Fully accredited four year U.S. institutions of higher education are        
  eligible to apply. These schools must be among those that are not highly funded     
  for development of environmental research capacity. For the purposes of this        
  CFDA, EPA considers such institutions to be those listed in the National Science    
  Foundation's publication, "Federal Science and Engineering Support to               
  Universities, Colleges, and Nonprofit Institutions: FY 2004," Table 11.             
  Institutions identified as receiving $35 million or less in annual federal research 
  and development funding, as designated in column 2 of Table 11, are eligible.       
  These data can be found at:



                                                                                 11-08
  http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/nsf07316/pdf/tab11.pdf. Table 11 is a broad
  representation of institutions, and includes schools that also receive more than
  $35 million annually in Federal research assistance. Letter of Institute GRO
  Eligibility: Applicants must submit a letter stating that their institution is GRO
  eligible. Data to be used in determining eligibility can be accessed at
  http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/nsf07316/pdf/tab11.pdf. Multiply the figure in the
  second column by 1000. Then submit a statement according to the following
  guidelines: "According to the National Science Foundation's report Federal
  Science and Engineering Support to Universities, Colleges, and Nonprofit
  Institutions: Fiscal Year 2004, Table 11, column two, this institution received
  $xx (place amount from Table 11, column 2 here) million in Federal Research
  and Development expenditures in fiscal year 2004. Since this is $35 million or
  less, this institution is GRO eligible." The full NSF report is available at
  http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/nsf07316/pdf/nsf07316.pdf. EPA will verify
  institution eligibility prior to scientific review. Proposals submitted by ineligible
  institutions will be rejected. Eligible institutions with substantial minority
  enrollment are particularly encouraged to apply. Examples of such schools are
  those that the Department of Education lists as "Accredited Postsecondary
  Minority Institutions" consistent with Executive Orders 13125 (Increasing
  Participation of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders), 13230 (Educational
  Excellence for Hispanic Americans), 13256 (Historically Black Colleges and
  Universities), and 13270 (Tribal Colleges and Universities), which encourage
  building of the capacity of minority serving institutions to provide high quality
  education. Note however, that not all of these schools receive less then $35
  million annually in Federal Research and Development expenditures. See "The
  Extent of Federal S&E Funding to Minority-Serving Institutions", at
  http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/infbrief/nsf04325/. Eligible nonprofit organizations
  include research institutes, corporations or foundations that are part of a fully
  accredited four year U.S. institution of higher education that receive $35 million
  or less in annual federal research and development funding, as designated in
  column 2 of Table 11 (see
  http://www.nsf.gov/statistics/nsf07316/pdf/tab11.pdf). However, nonprofit
  organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that
  lobby are not eligible to apply. National laboratories funded by federal agencies
  (Federally-funded Research and Development Centers, "FFRDCs") may not
  apply. FFRDC employees may cooperate or collaborate with eligible applicants
  within the limits imposed by applicable legislation and regulations. They may
  participate in planning, conducting, and analyzing the research directed by the
  principal investigator but may not direct projects on behalf of the applicant
  organization or principal investigator. The principal investigator's institution,
  organization or governance
  mayprovidefundsthroughits grant from EPA to a FFRDC for research personnel,
  supplies, equipment, and other expenses directly related to the research.
  However, salaries for permanent FFRDC employees may not be provided
  through this mechanism. Federal agencies may not apply. Federal employees are
  not eligible to serve in a principal leadership role on a grant, and may not receive
  salaries or in other ways augment their agency's appropriations through grants
  made by this program. Profit-making firms are not eligible to receive assistance
  agreements from the EPA under this program. The applicant institution may
  enter into an agreement with a Federal Agency to purchase or utilize unique
  supplies or services unavailable in the private sector. Examples are purchase of
  satellite data, census data tapes, chemical reference standards, analyses, or use of
  instrumentation or other facilities not available elsewhere. A written justification
  for federal involvement must be included in the application. In addition, an
  appropriate form of assurance that documents the commitment, such as a letter
  of intent from the Federal Agency involved, should be included.See RFA at:
  http://www.epa.gov/ncer for additional information pertaining to eligibility
  requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public Nonprofit Institutions/Organizations, Private Nonprofit
  Institutions/Organizations, Anyone/General Public, Education Professional,
  Student/Trainee, Graduate Student, Scientists/Researchers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  EPA may request that principal investigators document their affiliation with an
  eligible institution. The EPA may also request that applicants demonstrate they
  have appropriate background, academic training, experience in the field, and
  necessary equipment to carry out the research. EPA may ask applicants or
  principal investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.
  EPA may ask principal investigators for information documenting past
  performance.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. When applicable, an environmental impact
  assessment is made by the Office of Research and Development as required by
  the National Environmental Protection Act. The standard application forms as
                                                                                     983
