  furnished by the EPA and required by OMB Circulars No. A-102 and No. A-110         
  must be used for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.    
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  For regular mail, completed paper applications must be submitted to the            
  following address: Environmental Protection Agency, Peer Review Division           
  (8725F), Funding Opportunity Number: (include appropriate number as shown          
  in the solicitation), 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460.        
  For express mail and couriers, completed paper applications must be submitted      
  to the following address: Environmental Protection Agency, Peer Review             
  Division (8725F), Funding Opportunity Number: (include appropriate number          
  as shown in the solicitation), 1025 F Street, NW (Room 3500), Washington, DC       
  20004,Phone: (202) 233-0686. Specific details on the application process is        
  described in the solicitation which is located at: http://www.epa.gov/ncer.        
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for    
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in                 
  accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.      
  Customarily, applicants are notified of award decisions within six months of the   
  close of the RFA. After being recommended for award, applicants will be            
  required to submit additional certifications and an electronic version of the      
  revised project abstract, and may be requested to provide responses to comments    
  or suggestions offered by the peer reviewers, a revised budget, past performance   
  documentation, and/or make appropriate proposal revisions. EPA Project             
  Officers will contact Principal Investigators to obtain these materials. The       
  official notification of an award will be made by the Agency's Grants and          
  Interagency Agreement Management Division. Before or after award, certain          
  applicants will be expected to provide additional quality assurance                
  documentation.                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  As shown in the solicitation, which is accessible through the EPA/ORD/NCER         
  Web site at http://www.epa.gov/ncer.                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 180 days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new       
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and   
  will compete for available funds.                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants are normally funded for a minimum of 2 years. Total approved project        
  period may not exceed 5 years. Grants are generally fully funded or                
  incrementally funded (on a yearly basis).

Reports:                                                                             
  A grant recipient must agree to provide annual progress reports, with associated

  summaries for posting on NCER's web site, and a final report with an executive

                                                                                     
  summary for web posting. A grant recipient must agree to provide copies of any     
  peer reviewed journal article(s) resulting from the research during the project    
  period. The recipient also agrees to provide expenditure and invention reports as  
  appropriate.                                                                       
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each        
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit               
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in     
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 are applicable. Financial      
  records, including all documents to support entries on accounting records and to   
  substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to personnel            


984                                                                            11-08

  authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be maintained until
  three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure report. If
  questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related records
  should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0107-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,152,700; FY 08 est $1,152,700; and FY 09 est. $0. FY 08 funding was
  placed on awards made in response to FY 07 funding priorities.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  New awards range from $300,000 to $400,000 total per grant and average
  $335,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Applications received for the Greater Research Opportunities (GRO): Research
  Program- FY 07: 5; FY 08: 0. New awards for the Greater Research
  Opportunities (GRO): Research Program- FY 07: 3. Abstracts of current grant
  awards, and annual interim and final summary results of the research are
  available on the EPA/ORD/NCER homepage: http://www.epa.gov/ncer.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures, Environmental Protection Agency
  (40 CFR Part 30) and Research and Demonstration Grant Regulations,
  Environmental Protection Agency (40 CFR Part 40).
Regional or Local Office:
  Applicants are encouraged to communicate with the appropriate EPA Regional
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or the contact listed in the
  solicitation. The solicitation may be found at: http://www.epa.gov/ncer.
Headquarters Office:
  To obtain further information via the Internet for the Greater Research
  Opportunities (GRO) Research Program, click on "Grants & Funding" at
  http://www.epa.gov/ncer. RFAs will be posted as available. Further information,
  if needed, may also be obtained from Nora Savage; Telephone: (202) 343-9858;
  Fax: 202-233-0680; E-mail: savage.nora@epa.gov.; 1025 F Street, N.W.
  Washington, DC 20004. E-mail inquiries are preferred.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/ncer.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.509, Science To Achieve Results (STAR) Research Program; 66.511, Office
  of Research and Development Consolidated Research/Training/Fellowships.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  1. Develop nanofiber chitosan membranes using an electro-spinning process
  with the capacity to treat aqueous and gaseous environments. 2. Support the
  development of fluorescent detectors for a common seafood poison- saxitoxin. 3.
  Demonstrate the feasibility of using an internally-cooled machining tool that can
  perform at the same level as a conventional externally-cooled machine tool and
  thus eliminate the use of metalworking fluids. 4. Develop the technology,
  commercial applications, and life cycle assessments for high-performance
  microcellular (nano-) composites that use sustainable biobased materials via an
  environmentally benign manufacturing process. 5. Develop unit operations for
  the leather processing industry based on the use of liquid carbon dioxide. See
  Web Page (http://www.epa.gov/ncer) for additional information on previously
  funded grants.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. See the Web
  page (http://www.epa.gov/ncer) for additional information on the evaluative
  criteria for this RFA.
66.516 P3 AWARD: NATIONAL STUDENT DESIGN
COMPETITION FOR SUSTAINABILITY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, ENVIRONMENTAL
  PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Section 102(2)(F); Clean Air Act,
  Section 103, 42 U.S.C. 7403; Clean Water Act, Section 104, 33 U.S.C.; Solid
  Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001, 42 U.S.C. 6981; Safe Drinking Water Act,
  Section 1442, 42 U.S.C. 300j-1; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
  Act, Section 20, 7 U.S.C. 136r; Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10, 15
  U.S.C. 2609.
OBJECTIVES:
  EPA offers this competition to respond to the technical needs of the developed
  and developing world in moving towards the goal of sustainability. P3 highlights
  people, prosperity, and the planet - the three pillars of sustainability - as the next
  step beyond P2 or pollution prevention. The P3 Award program is a partnership
  between the public and private sectors to progress toward sustainability by
  achieving the mutual goals of economic prosperity, protection of the natural
  systems of the planet, and providing a higher quality of life for its people.
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: The United States Environmental
  Protection Agency (EPA) invites submissions to the P3 Award: A National
