  Student Design Competition for Sustainability. The P3 competition will provide      
  grants to teams of college students to research, develop, and design solutions to   
  challenges to sustainability. The Phase I competition is designed to provide        
  flexibility for creativity, allowing interdisciplinary teams of students to: (1)    
  define a technical challenge to sustainability; (2) discuss the relationship of the 
  challenge to people, prosperity, and the planet; and (3) develop a design           
  approach to address the challenge. Challenges from a wide range of categories       
  will be considered. These include: agriculture (e.g., irrigation practices,         
  reduction or elimination of pesticides); materials and chemicals (e.g., materials   
  conservation; renewable, bio-based feedstocks; inherently benign materials and      
  chemicals through green engineering and green chemistry, biotechnology;             
  recovery and reuse of materials through product, process, or system design);        
  energy (e.g., reduction in air emissions through innovative strategies for energy   
  production and energy distribution; energy conservation; inherently benign          
  energy through green chemistry, green engineering, biotechnology); information      
  technology (e.g., delivery of and access to environmental performance, technical,   
  educational, or public health information related to environmental decision         
  making); water (e.g., water quality, quantity, conservation, availability, and      
  access); built environment (e.g., environmental benefits through innovative         
  green buildings, transportation and mobility strategies, and smart growth as it     
  results in reduced vehicle miles traveled or reduces storm water runoff). Winners   
  of Phase I will be eligible for Phase II awards. Phase II awards will be made for   
  further development and demonstration of the designs created by Phase I             
  winners. Phase II will begin in the Spring when the student teams and their         
  faculty advisor (the Principal Investigator on the grant) will be invited to submit 
  their completed Phase I design to compete for the P3 Award.reduction in air         
  emissions through innovative strategies for energy production and energy            
  distribution; energy conservation; inherently benign energy through green           
  chemistry, green engineering, biotechnology); information technology (e.g.,         
  delivery of and access to environmental performance, technical, educational, or     
  public health information related to environmental decision making); water (e.g.,   
  water quality, quantity, conservation, availability, and access); built environment 
  (e.g., environmental benefits through innovative green buildings, transportation    
  and mobility strategies, and smart growth as it results in reduced vehicle miles    
  traveled or reduces storm water runoff). Winners of Phase I will be eligible for    
  Phase II awards. Phase II awards will be made for further development and           
  demonstration of the designs created by Phase I winners. Phase II will begin in     
  the Spring when the student teams and their faculty advisor (the Principal          
  Investigator on the grant) will be invited to submit their completed Phase I        
  design to compete for the P3 Award.                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Awards are made in response to an announced competitive request for                 
  applications (RFA). Funds awarded via grant agreements are available for            
  allowable direct cost expenditures incident to the performance of research plus     
  allocable portions of allowable indirect costs of the institutions, in accordance   
  with established EPA policies and regulations. Assistance agreement awards          
  under this program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further         
  information regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the         
  following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the      
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible           
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition            
  Policy. Public nonprofit institutions/organizations (limited to degree-granting     
  public institutions of higher education) and private nonprofit                      
  institutions/organizations (limited to degree-granting private institutions of      
  higher education) located in the U.S. are eligible to apply to be the recipient of a
  grant to support teams of undergraduate and/or graduate students. The students      
  on the teams supported by the institution receiving the grant must be enrolled in   
  the college, university, or post-secondary educational institution they will be     
  representing at the time the proposal is submitted. Institutions are allowed to     
  submit more than one proposal where each proposal represents a unique design        
  concept and student team. For the purposes of grant administration, the team's      
  faculty advisor will be designated the principal investigator throughout the P3     
  Award grant and competition process. In addition to the principal investigator,     
  each team selected for award will also be asked to provide contact information      
  for a student lead. Universities and educational institutions must be subject to    
  OMB Circular A-21. Profit-making firms are not eligible to receive grants from      
  the EPA under this program. Eligible nonprofit organizations include research       
  institutes, corporations, or foundations that are part of a U.S. degree-granting    
  institution of higher education. However, nonprofit organizations described in      
  Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that lobby are not eligible to       
  apply.Federal Agencies may not apply. Federal employees are not eligible to         
  serve in a principal leadership role on an assistance agreement, and may not        
  receive salaries or augment their Agency's appropriations in other ways through     
  awards made under this program. National laboratories funded by Federal             
  Agencies (Federally-Funded Research and Development Centers) may not                
  apply.Interdisciplinary teams, including representatives from multiple              


                                                                                 11-08
  engineering departments and/or departments of chemistry, architecture,
  industrial design, business, economics, policy, social science, and others, are
  strongly encouraged to submit an application through their institution.
  Collaboration with colleges and universities outside the United States is
  permitted, but only U.S. institutions will be eligible for awards. Up to 40% of
  the total grant may be sub-contracted to another educational institution
  (domestic or foreign) as described in instructions for submitting to this RFA. If
  foreign work is performed, in the process of funding the grant, EPA's Office of
  Research and Development is required to obtain clearance from EPA's Office of
  International Activities and the U.S. Department of State. See RFA at:
  http://es.epa.gov/ncer/p3/ for additional information pertaining to eligibility
  requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public Nonprofit Institutions/Organizations, Private Nonprofit
  Institutions/Organizations, Anyone/General Public, Education Professional,
  Student/Trainee, Graduate Student, Scientists/Researchers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  EPA may request that students document their affiliation with an eligible
  institution. The EPA may also request that applicants demonstrate they have
  appropriate background, academic training, experience in the field, and
  necessary equipment to carry out the research. EPA may ask principal
  investigators for information documenting past performance.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. When applicable, an environmental impact
  assessment is made by the Office of Research and Development as required by
  the National Environmental Protection Act. The standard application forms as
  furnished by the EPA and required by OMB Circular No. A-110 must be used
  for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  For regular mail, completed paper applications must be submitted to the
  following address: Environmental Protection Agency, Peer Review Division
  (8725F),Funding Opportunity Number: (include appropriate number as shown in
  the solicitation), 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460. For
  express mail and couriers, completed paper applications must be submitted to
  the following address: Environmental Protection Agency, Peer Review Division
  (8725F. Funding Opportunity Number: (include appropriate number as shown in
  the solicitation), 1025 F Street, N.W., (Room 3500), Washington, DC 20004,
  Telephone: (202) 233-0686. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB
  Circular No. A-110. Specific details on the application process is described in
  the solicitation which is located at: http://es.epa.gov/ncer/p3/. Applicants may be
  able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in
  accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
  Customarily, applicants are notified of award decisions within six months of the
  close of the RFA. After being recommended for award, applicants will be
  required to submit additional certifications and an electronic version of the
  revised project abstract, and may be requested to provide responses to comments
  or suggestions offered by the peer reviewers, a revised budget, past performance
  documentation, and/or make appropriate proposal revisions. EPA Project
  Officers will contact Principal Investigators to obtain these materials. The
  official notification of an award will be made by the Agency's Grants and
  Interagency Agreement Management Division.
Deadlines:
  As shown in the solicitation, which is accessible through the EPA/ORD/NCER
  P3 Web site at http://es.epa.gov/ncer/p3.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
                                                                                    985
