  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official              
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information    
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the   
  State has selected the program for review.                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Funds may be available to support activities including but not limited to             
  experiments, surveys, studies, investigations, public education programs, and         
  monitoring where authorized by specific statutes, in both science and                 
  engineering disciplines. Please check the Federal Register or the EPA/ORD             
  website http://www.epa.gov/ord/htm/grantopportunity.htm for an updated listing        
  of these programs. Completed applications must be submitted to the appropriate        
  laboratory, center or office within ORD specified in the announcement.                
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for       
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  The official notification of an award will be made by the Agency's Grants and         
  Interagency Agreements Management Division.Customarily, applicants are                
  notified about award decisions within six months of the solicitation deadline.        
  After being recommended for award , applicants will be required to submit             
  additional certifications and an electronic version of the revised project abstract,  
  and may be requested to provide responses to comments or suggestions offered          
  by the peer reviewers, a revised budget, past performance documentation, and/or       
  make appropriate revisions. EPA Project Officers will contact Principal               
  Investigators to obtain these materials. The official notification of an award will   
  be made by the Agency's Grants and Interagency Agreements Management                  
  Division. Before or after award, certain applicants will be expected to provide       
  additional quality assurance documentation.                                           
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Contact the appropriate laboratory, center or office within ORD for application       
  deadlines.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Approximately 180 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                                
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.          
Renewals:                                                                               
  Renewals and extensions are available under the discretion of the appropriate         
  Regional Science Liaison (RSL) to ORD.                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Grants are normally funded on a 12-month basis (annual). Total approved               
  project period my not exceed 5 years.                                                 
Reports:                                                                                
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in          
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,         
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention          
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations, 40      
  CFR Parts 30 and 31.                                                                  
Audits:                                                                                 
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the        
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,        
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.          
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each           
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,           
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                  
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in        
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                                
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting           
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to          
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be               
  maintained until three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure

  report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related

  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.                   
Account Identification:                                                                 
  68-0107-0-1-304.

                                                                                        
Obligations:

  FY 07 $823,265; FY 08 est. $511,000; and FY 09 est. $600,000.

                                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                        
  New grants/cooperative agreements range from $50,000 to $200,000 and

                                                                                        
  average. $125,000.

                                                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                        
  Eight grants/cooperative agreements were made in FY 2007. An estimated six

                                                                                        
  grant/cooperative agreements will be made in FY 2008. An estimated eight

                                                                                        
  grant/cooperative agreements will be made in FY 2009. Contact the Regional

                                                                                        
  Science Liaison of the specific region for the results of the research.

                                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                        


                                                                                  11-08 
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures, Environmental Protection Agency
  (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part 31). "EPA Assistance Administration
  Manual," available from the National Technical Information Service,
  Springfield, VA 22161 on a subscription basis and "EPA and the Academic
  Community, Solicitation for Grant Proposals."
Regional or Local Office:
  Individuals are encouraged to communicate with the appropriate EPA Regional
  office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  For administrative questions on grant applications and procedures, contact Mark
  J. Thomas, at the following address: Environmental Protection Agency, 1200
  Pennsylvania Ave. Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 564-4763, Fax:
  (202)565-2903. E-mail: Thomas.Mark@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/ord/htm/grantopportunity.htm .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.510, Surveys, Studies, Investigations and Special Purpose Grants within the
  Office of Research and Development.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) This project will consist in evaluating commercially available, rapid,
  economical immunoassays for detection of PCBs in caulking and ventilation
  system dust. A quantitative PCB immunoassay developed by ORD's Human
  Exposure and Atmospheric Sciences Division will also be evaluated. Assays
  performing favorably would be further tested in buildings testing positive for
  PCBs in caulk to assess whether ventilation dust can be correlated with air
  sampling methodologies. (2) This project will include conducting a side-by-side
  comparison between an integrated network approach and the conventional
  horizontal Flow Gravel Pre-filtration/Slow Sand Filtration approach and examine
  behavior and costs associated with such water filtration technologies in natural
  watershed conditions. The project could contribute to finding a solution to the
  problem of filtration for small rural communities who receive water from surface
  sources in a tropical climate. The goal would be to reduce their risks for
  waterborne diseases and help them comply with the Surface Water Treatment
  Rule (SWTR). (3) This project is intended to help MS4s develop, select and
  implement a storm water management plan that effectively addresses TMDL
  requirements and achieves water quality improvement. The project relies upon
  existing watershed improvement initiatives and will simply augment what is
  already being accomplished at the project site in order to better enable EPA to
  demonstrate environmental results. Due to the great length of time anticipated
  to achieve TMDL WLAs and water quality standards, interim measures or
  indices may be used in order to detect improvement in the first two years of the
  project. This project will ultimately incorporate outreach to MS4s and States to
  educate them about methods and techniques that can be employed to reach
  TMDL goals and water quality standards. (4) The use of infrared technology for
  the discovery of hydrocarbon leaks along pipeline routes has been used for many
  years. EPA has partnered with LDEQ to test this proven technology to discern if
  it can determine the amount of leaking organic vapors from the barges and
  railcars traversing along the Mississippi River industrial corridor. With the use
  of the HAWK surveying instrumentation from a helicopter flying low over the
  pipelines, barges and railcars, and tying that information into LDEQ's existing
  GIS databases, we hope to be able to immediately identify the leakers and have
  them repaired. This information will also be invaluable in determining if the
  existing regulations are sufficient to protect the environment and the public form
  unauthorized releases of hazardous chemicals. (5) This project will focus on (a)
  reviewing available databases and literature to compare species assemblages and
  invasion histories across Pacific estuaries relative to shipping patterns; (b)
  determining patterns of genetic diversity across invasive populations of Smooth
  Cordgrass and European Green Crab sampled from California, Oregon, and/or
  Washington to determine whether populations originated from San Francisco
  Bay; and (c) developing molecular genetic screening tools to determine whether
  European Green Crabs and Chinese mitten crabs are being carried in ballast
  originating from San Francisco Bay.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
66.518 STATE SENIOR ENVIRONMENTAL EMPLOYMENT
PROGRAM
   (SSEE)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ADMINISTRATION AND RESOURCES MANAGEMENT,
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Environmental Programs Assistance Act of 1984, Public Law 98-313, 42 U.S.C.
  4368a.
OBJECTIVES:
  To use the talents of Americans 55 years of age or older to provide technical
  assistance to State environmental agencies for projects of pollution prevention,
  abatement, and control to achieve the Agency's goals of Clean Air; Clean and
                                                                                  987
