  managerial support in relation to our consolidated environmental program grants    
  for the protection of public health and welfare in the Territories of Guam,        
  American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the                
  Northern Mariana Islands (hereinafter referred to as "Insular Areas.") Funding     
  priorities for the fiscal year include: (1) Clean and Safe Water: (a) Safe Drinking
  Water - To provide on-site technical assistance, training, funding towards         
  building capacity at water utilities and environmental protection agencies, and    
  addressing funding shortages for drinking water infrastructure improvements.       
  We will work with DOI's Office of Insular Affairs and other federal agencies to    
  explore ways of addressing the growing gap between available federal funding       
  and the capital needs for sound infrastructure (b) Clean Water - To provide on-    
  site technical assistance, training, funding, capacity building to utilities and   
  environmental agencies for construction of wastewater treatment facilities; to     
  assist government agencies in the development of surveillance, monitoring, and     
  enforcement programs for streams, lakes, marine water, marine sediment, and        
  coral reef protection through our comprehensive Watershed Management               
  program that protects human health and the environment. (2) Preserve Land: To      
  provide on-site technical assistance, training, and information exchange with      
  other governments and international agencies to establish a regional recycling     
  program that would reduce waste and the need for landfill area and eliminate       
  possible incineration; to continue to inspections and establish training to prevent
  petroleum releases by working with environmental agencies, utilities, and          
  Department of Defense by instituting comprehensive training, inspection, and on    
  scene coordination concerning emergency responses. (3) Health Communities          
  and Ecosystems: Reduce chemical and biological risks - To provide on-site          
  technical assistance, training, capacity building, funding to eliminate the        
  exposure to hazardous and nonhazardous chemicals, toxic waste, and pesticides      
  for the protection of public health and the environment. Assist government with    
  the removal and remediation of toxic and pesticide wastes; eliminate the illegal   
  importation and improper use of pesticides; promote sustainable development;       
  provide an information exchange and partnership for the utilization of             
  international treaties regarding the transport and disposal of hazardous materials 
  and waste. (4) Compliance and Environmental Stewardship: To provide on-site        
  technical assistance, training, capacity building, and funding to continue to      
  establish and develop key partnerships with territorial government agencies and    
  federal agencies for enforcement issues concerning land based pollution, illegal   
  toxic releases, and protection of the marine environment. As a result of EPA's     
  continuing leadership and on-site assistance, the territorial governments look to  
  EPA as a leader for all issues concerning environmental management and             
  protection.                                                                        
                                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grants and cooperative agreements are awarded to Insular Area agencies under       
  the above referenced authorities to provide technical and managerial support in    
  relation to continuing environmental program grants that serve to protect the      
  public health and welfare of the Insular Areas.                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  The Territories of Guam, American Samoa, and the Virgin Islands, and the           
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands are eligible to receive and           
  administer funds for more than one environmental program. For certain              
  competitive funding opportunities under this description, the Agency may limit     
  eligibility to a particular subset of eligible applicants consistent with the      
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  The Territories of Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the               
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Preapplication communications should be directed to the appropriate EPA            
  Regional office. The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal        
  agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 and 40 CFR 31.10 must be             
  used for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,     
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult        
  the Regional office or official designated as the single point of contact for their
  Insular Area for more information on the process the Insular Area needs to         
  follow when applying for assistance.                                               
Application Procedure:                                                               
  U.S. Insular area agencies will be notified to submit grant application packages   
  identifying required forms including a work plan. The application package          
  should be submitted to the appropriate EPA Regional Office. Applicants may be      
  able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant        
  opportunities under this CFDA.                                                     
                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

  U.S. Insular area agencies will be notified of Federal assistance awards through   
  the appropriate EPA Regional Office. For competitive awards, EPA will review       
  and evaluate applications, proposals and/or submissions in accordance with the     
  terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive announcement.            


                                                                                11-08
  Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for
  competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Contact the appropriate EPA Regional Office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days.
Appeals:
  Competition-related disputes will be resolved in accordance with the dispute
  resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal Register) 3629, 3630
  (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also be requested by
  contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts". Disputes relating
  to matters other than competitive selection of recipients will be resolved under
  40 CFR 30.63 and 40 CFR 31.70.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Matching requirements may be waived by the Agency pursuant to the Omnibus
  Territories Act.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is usually awarded for a 1-year or longer period. The Automated
  Standard Application for Payments (ASAP) is the preferred payment method.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly
  and final performance reports, and financial, equipment, and invention reports.
  Reporting requirements are also identified in the Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local
  Governments - 40 CFR Part 31. Additionally, progress reporting by the Insular
  Area agency and performance monitoring by EPA will be the minimum
  necessary for sound program management. Reporting requirements may vary
  with each Insular Area agency depending upon the specific agency's
  demonstrated management abilities. A financial status report is required within
  90 days of the end of the budget period.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records including documents to support entries on accounting records and to
  substantiate charges to each grant must be kept available to personnel authorized
  to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be maintained for three years
  from the date of submission of the annual financial status report. If any
  litigation, claim or audit is started before the end of the 3-year period, the
  records must be retained until the litigations, claims or audit findings have been
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304; 68-0103-0-1-304; 20-8145-0-7-304; 20-8153-0-7-304.
Obligations:
  Grants obligated for American Samoa, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands, and Guam were the following: FY 07 $8,459,838; and FY 08
  $6,603,700; FY 09 est. $8,500,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In general, financial assistance has increased annually depending on program
  funding that is consolidated into the grant. Financial assistance has generally
  ranged from $2,000,000 to $4,000,000/territory/fiscal year. The total estimated
  average is $8,500,000/fiscal year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Island environmental agencies have significantly bolstered water, air, RCRA,
  superfund, and pesticides programs through the consolidated grants. The grants
  have allowed island governments to focus on environmental results without
  being overly burdened by administering multiple smaller grants.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  40 CFR Part 31, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; 40 CFR Part 35,
  Subpart A, Environmental Program Grants; EPA annual Program Guidance.
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA Region 2 Contact: Victor M.Trinidad, Chief, Environmental Management
  Branch, EPA Region 2, Caribbean Environmental Protection Division, Centro
  Europa Building, Suite 417, 1492 Ponce de Leon Avenue, San Juan, Puerto Rico
  00907-4127; Telephone: (787) 977-5870; Fax: (787) 729-7747; EPA Region 9
  Contacts: Guam: Alba Espitia,Grants Management Specialist,Grants
  Management Office (PMD-7), U.S. EPA Region 9, 75 Hawthorne St., San
                                                                                  989
