  Francisco, CA 94105; Telephone: (415) 972-3667; Fax: (415) 947-3556; E-             
  mail: espitia.alba@epa.gov; CNMI and American Samoa: Renee Chan,Grants              
  Management Specialist, Grants Management Office (PMD-7),U.S. EPA Region             
  9, 75 Hawthorne St., San Francisco, CA 94105; Telephone: (415) 972-3675;            
  Fax: 415-947-3556; E-mail: chan.renee@epa.gov.                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  See the "Information Contacts" listed for the specific programs referred to in the  
  "Uses and Use Restrictions" section.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/region9/.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Projects have been funded which combined as few as two to several eligible          
  programs. Environmental program grants are awarded annually to Insular Area         
  agencies which consolidate a number of different program funds. In FY04 a           
  grant was awarded to a territorial utility agency which consolidated grant funds    
  to support a water resources master plan project.                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applications may be approved if: (1) funds are available; (2) if the application    
  satisfies the requirements of 40 CFR Parts 31 and 35 and applicable statutes;       
  and (3) if the proposed work program is feasible and compatible with the            
  program priorities in EPA annual guidance. The evaluation and selection criteria    
  for competitive awards under this CFDA description will be described in the         
  competitive announcement.                                                           
                                                                                      
66.604 ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE SMALL GRANT                                              
                                                                                      
PROGRAM

                                                                                      
      (EJSG)                                                                          
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE, ENVIRONMENTAL                                      
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Clean Water Act, Section 104(b)(3); Safe Drinking Water Act, Section                
  1442(b)(3); Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001(a); Clean Air Act, Section       
  103(b)(3); Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10(a); Federal Insecticide,        
  Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Section 20(a); Marine Protection, Research,         
  and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203.                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The primary purposes of proposed projects should be to develop a                    
  comprehensive understanding of environmental and public health issues,              
  identify ways to address these issues at the local level, and educate and empower   
  the community. The long-term goals of the program are to help build the             
  capacity of the affected community and create self-sustaining, community-based      
  partnerships that will continue to improve local environments in the future.        
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: To provide financial assistance to eligible    
  non-profit organizations. The purposes of proposed projects should be to            
  educate the community, develop a comprehensive understanding of                     
  environmental and/or public health issues, and identify ways to address these       
  issues at the local level and create and develop collaborative partnerships. The    
  long-term goals of the EJSG Program are to help build the capacity of the           
  affected community and create self-sustaining, community-based partnershis          
  that will continue to improve local environments in the future.                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable    
  direct costs incident to approved surveys, studies, and investigations plus         
  allowable direct costs in accordance with established EPA policies and              
  procedures. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or           
  relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial          
  information may be obtained by viewing the following website:                       
  http://geodata.epa.gov. The recipient cannot use these funds for the following      
  activities under this program: litigation against the Federal government or any     
  other government entity; construction; lobbying; matching funds for other           
  Federal grants; travel for Federal employees; and human health studies (taking      
  blood or other information from humans).ble for use in lobbying or underwriting     
  legal actions, including the preparation of court testimony and hiring of expert    
  witnesses. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or            
  relate to geospatial information.                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the      
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible           
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition            
  Policy. An eligible applicant MUST BE: (1) a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization       
  as designated by the Internal Revenue Service; (2) a nonprofit organization,        
  recognized by the state, territory, commonwealth, or tribe in which it is located;  
  (3) a city, township, county government; OR (4) a Native American tribal            


990                                                                             11-08

  government (Federally recognized)(AND)(5) located within the same state,
  territory, commonwealth, or tribe that the proposed project will be located. In
  addition, an eligible applicant must be able to demonstrate that it has worked
  directly with, or provided services to, the affected community. An "affected
  community" for the purposes of this assistance agreement program, is a
  community that is disproportionately impacted by environmental harms and
  risks and has a local environmental and public health issue that is identified in
  the proposal. The following entities are INELIGIBLE: colleges and universities;
  hospitals; state governments; quasi-governmental entities (e.g., water districts,
  utilities)*; national, multi-state, or state-wide organizations with chapters; and
  nonprofit organizations that engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3
  of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995. Generally, a quasi-governmental entity
  is one that: (1) has a close association with the government agency, but is not
  considered a part of the government agency; (2) was created by the government
  agency, but is exempt from certain legal and administrative requirements
  imposed on government agencies; or (3) was not created by the government
  agency but performs a public purpose and is significantly supported financially
  by the government agency.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Nonprofit organizations and local government organizations as described in
  "Applicant Eligibility," above.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-122 for
  nonprofit organizations and OMB Circular A-102 for local governments.
  Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background,
  academic training, experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out
  projects. EPA may ask applicants or principle investigators to provide
  curriculum vitae and relevant publications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Application kits
  should be requested from and submitted to the Environmental Protection
  Agency, Office of Environmental Justice, Mail Code 2201A, 1200 Pennsylvania
  Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460 or the appropriate EPA Regional Office
  identified under Information Contacts. Detailed information and assistance
  including an application may also be found at
  http://www.epa.gov/compliance/environmentaljustice/grants/index.html. For
  grant awards, Requests for Applications will specify application procedures.
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in the Request for
  Application.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 150 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted as a new
  grant, which will be reviewed in the same manner as the original application and
  will compete for available funds. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and
  cooperative agreements for training, research, surveys, studies, and
  investigations. Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on
  satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of the project to EPA's
  priorities, and availability of funds. bility of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
