  administrative requirements. To help advance these goals, the Agency has            
  initiated a Maximizing PPGs initiative for FY 2008. EPA and state leaders will      
  identify specific issues the initiative might address, the benefits the PPGs        
  already offer, and possible new incentives that would make PPGs more attractive     
  to states. We hope states representing a range of current PPG usage will            
  participate and explore ways they can get more value from their PPGs, and that      
  states not now combining their grants in PPGs will consider doing so as part of     
  this effort. The Maximizing PPGs initiative puts an unprecedented spotlight on      
  PPGs and presents a unique opportunity for states interested in trying new          
  approaches. EPA's top leadership has made a firm commitment to ensuring the         
  success of this effort. Through this initiative, EPA will work with volunteer       
  states to: Address real or perceived barriers to PPGs that are within EPA's         
  purview; Promptly elevate and carefully consider policy issues and, wherever        
  possible, resolve them in favor of providing flexibility; Test ways to              
  accommodate multi-media projects and alternative priorities and approaches in       
  accountability and management systems; Create "safe havens" if needed to test       
  promising new approaches; Develop other incentives to make PPGs more                
  valuable to states; and use the lessons learned to inform EPA's policy decisions,   
  make adjustments as needed to management and accountability systems, and            
  develop practical "how-to" information that will help other states in the future.   
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: The Agency's ongoing goals for the PPG         
  program are to: (1) strengthen partnerships between EPA, the state, tribes, and     
  interstate agencies through joint planning and priority setting to more effectively 
  deploy resources; (2) provide states, tribes, and interstate agencies with the      
  flexibility to direct resources where they are needed most to address               
  environmental and public health priorities; (3) link program activities more        
  effectively with environmental and public health goals and environmental            
  outcomes; (4) foster implementation of innovative approaches such as pollution      
  prevention, ecosystem management, and community-based environmental                 
  protection strategies; and (5)                                                      
  providesavingsbystreamliningadministrative requirements. To help advance            
  these goals, the Agency will continue its Maximizing PPGs initiative for FY         
  2009. EPA and state leaders will identify specific issues the initiative might      
  address, the benefits the PPGs already offer, and possible new incentives that      
  would make PPGs more attractive to states. We hope states representing a range      
  of current PPG usage will participate and explore ways they can get more value      
  from their PPGs, and that states not now combining their grants in PPGs will        
  consider doing so as part of this effort. The Maximizing PPGs initiative puts an    
  unprecedented spotlight on PPGs and presents a unique opportunity for states        
  interested in trying new approaches. EPA's top leadership has made a firm           
  commitment to ensuring the success of this effort. Through this initiative, EPA     
  will work with volunteer states to: Address real or perceived barriers to PPGs      
  that are within EPA's purview; Promptly elevate and carefully consider policy       
  issues and, wherever possible, resolve them in favor of providing flexibility; Test 
  ways to accommodate multi-media projects and alternative priorities and             
  approaches in accountability and management systems; Create "safe havens" if        
  needed to test promising new approaches; Develop other incentives to make           
  PPGs more valuable to states; and use the lessons learned to inform EPA's policy    
  decisions, make adjustments as needed to management and accountability              
  systems, and develop practical "how-to" information that will help other states in  
  the future.                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  PPGs are a type of modified block grant, where recipients may combine funds         
  from categorical grants to accomplish their joint and several purposes, so long as  
  recipients meet program requirements for each categorical grant combined into       
  the PPG. The 20 categorical grants eligible for PPGs are a mixture of continuing    
  program grants and competitive project grants. Eligible recipients can combine      
  two or more of the following 20 categorical grants programs identified in EPA's     
  FY 2007 state and Tribal Assistance Grants (STAG) appropriation into a PPG:         
  (1) Air Pollution Control (Clean Air Act (CAA) Section 105); (2) Water              
  Pollution Control (Clean Water Act (CWA) Section 106); (3) Nonpoint Source          
  Management (CWA Section 319); (4) Water Quality Cooperative Agreements              
  (CWA Section 104(b)(3)); (5) Wetlands Program Development (CWA Section              
  104(b)(3)); (6) Public Water System Supervision (Safe Drinking Water Act            
  (SDWA) Sections 1443(a) and 1451(a)(3)); (7) Underground Water Source               
  Protection (SDWA Section 1443(b)); (8) Hazardous Waste Management (Solid            
  Waste Disposal Act, Section 3011(a)); (9) Underground Storage Tank (Solid           
  Waste Disposal Act, Section 2007(f)(2)); (10) Radon Assessment and Mitigation       
  (Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) Section 306); (11) Lead-based Paint            
  Activities (TSCA Section 404(g)); (12) Toxic Substances compliance                  
  monitoring (TSCA Section 28); (13) Pollution Prevention Incentives for states       
  (Pollution Prevention Act (PPA) Section 6605); (14) Pesticide Cooperative           
  Enforcement (Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA)            
  Section 23(a)(1); (15) Pesticides and program implementation (FIFRA Section         
  23(a)(1)); (16) Pesticide Applicator Certification and Training (FIFRA Section      
  23 (a)(2)); (17) Environmental Information Network Exchange Grants                  
  (Consolidated Appropriations Resolution for the Departments of Veterans             
                                                                                      


992                                                                             11-08

  Affairs, Housing and Urban Development, and Independent Agencies of 2003,
  Public Law 108-7; Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2004, Public Law 108-
  199); (18) Brownfields state and Tribal Response Program Grants
  (Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of
  1980 (CERCLA), Section 128(a), as amended; Public Law 107-118; Small
  Business Liability Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act); (19) Capacity
  Building Grants and Cooperative Agreements for states and Tribes (CWA,
  Section 104; FIFRA, Section 20; CAA, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Act,
  Section 8001; SDWA, Section 1442; TSCA, Section 10; Marine Protection,
  Research and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203; CERCLA, Section 311; National
  Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), Section 102(2)(F) (for international awards);
  and the Indian Environmental General Assistance Program Act); and (20)
  General Assistance Grants to Indian Tribes (Indian Environmental General
  Assistance Program Act of 1992) - only eligible tribes can propose to include
  these funds in a PPG application. Recipients may use PPGs to fund activities
  that are within the cumulative eligibilities of the 20 categorical grants programs
  listed above for which they are eligible. Assistance agreement awards under this
  program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information
  regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following
  website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All states, interstate agencies, U.S. territories, and federally recognized Indian
  tribes eligible to receive more than one of the 20 categorical grants program
  referred to in "Uses and Use Restrictions" above are eligible to apply for PPGs.
  Any duly authorized state or tribal entity that currently receives or is eligible to
  receive EPA categorical program grants may request a PPG for the funds it
  administers. This may include agencies other than environmental agencies (for
  example, agricultural and health agencies), where authorized by state or tribal
  law. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description,
  the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition
  Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, U.S. territories, federally recognized Indian tribal governments, and
  interstate agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  All recipients are agencies of State, local, tribal, or territorial governments. All
  documentation requirements for recipients are presented at 40 CFR Part 31,
  "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements
  to State and Local Governments," and 40 CFR Part 35, "State and Local
  Assistance."
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants interested in pursuing PPGs should coordinate with their appropriate
  EPA Regional Office to develop a PPG through joint negotiations. (See
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.) Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance
  with respect to competitive funding opportunities under this program
  description, EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-
  proposal assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive
  announcement. For additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as
  "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Requests for applications should be made to the appropriate EPA Regional
  Grants Management Office. Applicants will negotiate the content of their PPG
  with their EPA Regional Office and submit an application for the PPG based on
  these negotiations. Applicants for PPGs must submit an "Application for Federal
  Assistance: State and Local Non-Construction Programs," (Standard Form 424),
  including the required supporting documents. Applicants may be able to use
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  Grant applications are reviewed by the appropriate EPA Regional Office, and if
  approved, awarded by the Regional Administrator. For competitive awards, EPA
  will review and evaluate applications, proposals, and/or submissions in
  accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive
  announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA
  policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements. After the applicant is
  chosen for the competitive award, the applicant will work with the EPA regional
  office to add those competitive grant funds to the PPG. The workplan and
  supporting documentation that were the basis of the competitive award also will
  be added to the PPG.
Deadlines:
  Applications are due 60 days prior to the beginning of the budget period.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 days.
Appeals:
