  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in                 
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal         
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also          
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."        
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients       
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                   
Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Major portions of the PPGs are by statutory formula. The allocation for a PPG         
  consists of the cumulative allocations for the categorical grants included in the     
  PPG. Recipients should calculate a single, composite minimum cost share               
  (based on the match or maintenance of effort requirements of the categorical          
  grants included in the PPG) for each of their PPGs. To calculate the minimum          
  cost share for a PPG, start with the amount of Federal dollars from each program      
  (source of funds) going into the PPG. The minimum required cost share for each        
  portion is determined by identifying the cost share requirements of the relevant      
  categorical grant program (based on the source of funds). The minimum                 
  recipient cost share for the PPG is the sum of the minimum cost shares of the         
  contributed categorical grants. Tribal governments and intertribal consortia may      
  be eligible for match requirement waivers based on demonstrated hardship. The         
  determination of eligibility will be completed by the Regional Administrator and      
  will be based on socio-economic criteria.                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  The terms of the grant shall be determined during pre-application negotiations        
  and at the time of the award. Applicants may choose to submit annual or multi-        
  year work plans and project periods. Budget periods will be for 12 months with        
  the applicant having the flexibility to select, in consultation with the Regional     
  Administrator, the specific start and end date for the budget period. Grant           
  awards are made after review and approval of the application. Grantees are            
  reimbursed for actual expenses based on submissions in financial status reports.      
Reports:                                                                                
  Applicants must provide reports and conduct joint evaluations in accordance           
  with 40 CFR Part 31 and 40 CFR Part 35, Subparts A and B.                             
Audits:

  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the        
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,

  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.

                                                                                        
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each           
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,           
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                  
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in        
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                                
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting           
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to          
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be               
  maintained for three years from the date of submission of the annual financial        
  status report. If questions remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related
  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.                   
Account Identification:                                                                 
  68-0103-0-1-304.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $372,688,500; FY 08 est. $392,000,000; and FY 09 est $411,000,000.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  There is no low-end limit for PPG awards to tribes. EPA may make awards as

                                                                                        
  small as two programs and thousands of dollars to tribes. EPA may award PPGs          
  that combine up to 19 categorical grants to states. PPGs for larger states exceed     
  $10 million. In FY 2007, state PPGs generally contained six or seven categorical      
  grants, with award amounts averaging around $5 million.                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  PPGs have allowed states to take advantage of administrative and program

                                                                                        
  efficiencies and innovations to achieve greater environmental and program

                                                                                        
  results. States and tribes have used PPGs to address critical emergencies and

                                                                                        
  unplanned events (for example, responses to hurricanes Rita and Katrina). They

                                                                                        
  have used PPG flexibility to overcome periodic budget needs or high program

                                                                                        
  demands in specific programs. States and tribes have used PPGs to implement

                                                                                        
  multi-program initiatives and innovations that impact many environmental

                                                                                        
  programs. They also have taken advantage of streamlined administrative

                                                                                        
  procedures to make grant processes more efficient. PPGs have allowed tribes to

                                                                                        
  develop and implement environmental programs in situations where it would

                                                                                        
  have been more difficult using categorical grants. Agencies may request to

                                                                                        
  receive their categorical grant funds in a PPG. Nearly all PPG applicants receive

                                                                                        
  a grant, since they generally fund ongoing environmental programs. The total

                                                                                        
  number of PPGs in effect FY 2007 was 172, including 43 to state environmental

                                                                                        
  agencies; 24 to state agricultural agencies; and 105 to tribal agencies.

                                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:



                                                                                   11-08
  40 CFR Part 35 Subparts A and B; 40 CFR Part 31, "Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local
  Governments."
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for EPA Regional Office contacts.
Headquarters Office:
  States - Michael Osinski, Program Manager, National Environmental
  Performance Partnership System, (202) 564-3792; Fax: (202) 501-1545; E-
  mail: osinski.michael@epa.gov. Tribes - Office of Water, American Indian
  Environmental Office; Carol Jorgenson, Director; (202) 564-0303; Fax: (202)
  564-0298; E-mail: jorgenson.carol@epa.gov. States - Office of the
  Administrator, Office of Congressional and Intergovernmental Relations, Mail
  Code: 1301A, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460.
  Tribes - Office of Water, Mail Code: 4104M, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W.,
  Washington, DC 20460.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/ocir
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Performance Partnership Grant combines funds from ten categorical grant
  programs to implement the Commonwealth's major operating environmental
  programs for clean air, clean water, drinking water, hazardous waste, and many
  others; (2) Grant taps funding from media programs combined in the PPG to
  fund pollution prevention activities; (3) Performance Partnership Grant
  combines funds from three pesticides programs to improve state
  implementation; (4) Grant combines four grants to develop and implement a
  variety of environmental programs; and (5) Grant negotiates with the regional
  office to use unexpended prior year funds for special projects to meet state
  priorities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applicants must meet selection criteria for the categorical grants to be combined
  in the PPG. The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under
  this CFDA description will be described in the competitive announcement.
66.608 ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION EXCHANGE
NETWORK GRANT PROGRAM AND RELATED
ASSISTANCE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION, ENVIRONMENTAL
  PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Authorization for program implementation cooperative agreements with states
  and tribes, under the Exchange Network Grant Program, is provided in the State
  and Tribal Assistance Grant (STAG) appropriation, contained in EPA's annual
  appropriation Acts. Authorization for multi-media assistance agreements for
  training, studies, research, demonstrations and similar activities that facilitate
  state and tribal participation in the Exchange Network and are funded by EPA's
  Environmental Programs and Management (EPM) account (not the STAG
  account) is provided by the following statutes: Clean Water Act, Section
  104(b)(3); Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Section 20;
  Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001;
  Comprehensive Enviornmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act,
  Section 104, as amended; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic
  Substances Control Act, Section 10; Marine Protection, Research and
  Sanctuaries Act, Section 203; and National Environmental Policy Act, Section
  102(2)(F) for international awards.
OBJECTIVES:
  EPA and its State, territorial, and tribal partners are building a nationwide
  Environmental Information Exchange Network. The Exchange Network is an
  Internet and standards-based information network that facilitates electronic
  reporting and the exchange and integration of environmental data and
  information from many different sources. The Exchange Network makes it easier
  for EPA and its partners to obtain the timely and accurate information needed
  when making decisions concerning the natural environment and related human
  health issues. The Exchange Network Grant Program provides financial
  assistance to states, territories, federally recognized Indian tribes, and intertribal
  consortia of federally recognized tribes to support the development of
  information technology and information management (IT/IM) infrastructure and
  capabilities needed to participate in the Exchange Network; the development of
  dataflows using the Exchange Network, including geospatial dataflows;
  planning, mentoring, and training activities; and a challenge group of activities
  that advance the development and use of the Exchange Network. Exchange
  Network Grants also provide strategic program support for the Exchange
  Network through non-competitive awards to State- and tribal-supporting co-
  regulator/co-implementor organizations. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008:
  Projects supported by the FY 2008 Exchange Network grant program and
  funded through EPA's STAG appropriation must address one or more of the
                                                                                      993
