  following priorities: developing or upgrading IT/IM capabilities and tools to         
  participate in the Exchange Network; developing the capabilities to exchange          
  environmental, human health, or related data flows using the Exchange Network,        
  and developing related data analysis and integration tools; planning and              
  implementing collaborative, innovative projects that use the Exchange Network         
  to help address the business needs of government agencies at all levels;              
  providing mentoring and training to other Exchange Network partners;                  
  providing outreach, communications, technical assistance, and other support to        
  states that are participating in, or may wish to participate in, the Exchange         
  Network; and providing support for state participation in the Network                 
  Operations Board and related workgroups. FY 2008 Exchange Network-related             
  awards that focus on expanding tribal participation in the Exchange Network           
  and are funded through EPA's EPM account must address the following                   
  priorities: providing programmatic support to federally recognized Indian tribes      
  and intertribal consortia of federally recognized tribes that are participating in or 
  may wish to participate in the Exchange Network; providing outreach,                  
  communications, training/mentoring, and technical assistance to tribes to             
  increase their knowledge about the Exchange Network, enhance their IM/IT              
  capabilities, and encourage their development of Exchange Network nodes and           
  dataflows; providing support for tribal participation in the Exchange Network         
  governance structure; and providing periodic reports to the Exchange Network          
  management organization on the status of tribal participation in the Exchange         
  Network. FY 2008 Exchange Network-related awards that focus on enhancing              
  state participation in the state/EPA information management governance                
  structure and are funded through EPA's EPM account must address the                   
  following priorities: providing support for state participation in the state/EPA      
  Information Management Work Group, which addresses overarching                        
  information management issues; and providing support for state participation in       
  the Exchange Network Leadership Council, which is responsible for developing          
  the strategic direction and overall policies for the Exchange Network. Funding        
  Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Projects supported by the FY 2008 Exchange               
  Network Grant Program, which are funded through EPA's STAG account, must              
  address at least one of the following priorities: developing or                       
  upgradingIM/ITcapabilities and tools to participate in the Exchange Network;          
  developing the capabilities to exchange environmental, human health, or related       
  data flows using the Exchange Network, and developing related data analysis           
  and integration tools; planning and implementing collaborative, innovative            
  projects that use the Exchange Network to help address the business needs of          
  government agencies at all levels; providing mentoring and training to other          
  Exchange Network partners; providing outreach, communications, technical              
  assistance, and other support to states that are participating in, or may wish to     
  participate in, the Exchange Network; and providing support for state                 
  participation in the Network Operations Board and related workgroups. Other           
  FY 2008 Exchange Network-related awards that focus on providing support to            
  all tribes - not just those that are currently participating in the Exchange          
  Network - and that are funded through EPA's EPM account must address the              
  following priorities: providing programmatic support to federally recognized          
  Indian tribes and intertribal consortia of federally recognized tribes that are       
  participating in or may wish to participate in the Exchange Network; providing        
  outreach, communications, training/mentoring, and technical assistance to tribes      
  to increase their knowledge about the Exchange Network, enhance their IM/IT           
  capabilities, and encourage their development of Exchange Network nodes and           
  dataflows; providing support for tribal participation in the Exchange Network         
  governance structure; and providing periodic reports to the Exchange Network          
  management organization on the status of tribal participation in the Exchange         
  Network. Other FY 2008 Exchange Network-related awards that focus on                  
  enhancing state participation in the state/EPA information management                 
  governance structure and that are funded through EPA's EPM account must               
  address the following priorities: providing support for State participation in the    
  State/EPA Information Management Work Group, which addresses overarching              
  information management issues; and providing support for State participation in       
  the Exchange Network Leadership Council, which is responsible for developing          
  the strategic direction and overall policies for the Exchange Network.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Funding is available for direct costs associated with carrying out grant-supported    
  projects and for allocations of allowable indirect costs, in accordance with          
  established EPA policies. Assistance agreement awards under this program may          
  involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding            
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:              
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Eligible applicants for the Exchange Network Grant Program include states, the        
  District of Columbia, U.S. territories (American Samoa, Guam, the                     
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S.               
  Virgin Islands), federally recognized Indian tribes, and intertribal consortia of     
  federally recognized tribes. Intertribal consortium are eligible to apply for         
  assistance from the Exchange Network Grant Program by meeting the following           
  criteria: (a) the majority of the consortium members are federally recognized         
994                                                                               11-08

  Indian tribes; (b) all consortium federally recognized tribal members have
  authorized the consortium to apply for and receive assistance (if awarded) from
  the Exchange Network Grant Program; and (c) the intertribal consortium has
  adequate accounting controls to manage awarded funds while ensuring that only
  federally recognized tribal members will benefit directly from the
  award.Regional air pollution control districts may apply for assistance if they are
  legally considered to be agencies or instrumentalities of the state under
  applicable State laws. The following entities are not eligible to apply for
  funding from the competitive Exchange Network Grant Program:
  state/territorial/tribal universities; city, town, county, or regional governments;
  nonprofit organizations, including organizations that represent the interests of
  co-regulators/co-implementors in executing environmental programs. For certain
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy. In
  addition to issuing competitive awards to states/territories/tribes and intertribal
  consortia, EPA may use a portion of the Exchange Network Grant Program
  funds to issue one or more non-competitive awards for associated program
  support to a co-regulator/co-implementor organization. A co-regulator/co-
  implementor organization is one that represents the interests of governmental
  units (for example, state or regional governments) in executing a national or
  regional environmental program. The membership of such a national or regional
  organization is composed of officials of the co-regulator or co-implementor
  entities (for example, state environmental commissioners). Eligible applicants
  for non-competitive awards that relate to the Exchange Network and are funded
  through EPA's EPM account include non-profit organizations that are co-
  regulator/co-implementor organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federal, state, territory, city, town, county, and regional governments; federally
  recognized Indian tribes and intertribal consortia of federally recognized tribes;
  public institutions and industries subject to EPA regulatory reporting
  requirements; and the public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be evaluated in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87, "Cost
  Principles for State, Local, and Indian Tribal Governments," or OMB Circular
  No. A-122, "Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations," as appropriate.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. Please contact Marla
  Sheppard ((202) 564-5954) for questions involving Intergovernmental Review.
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants for the FY 2009 Exchange Network Grant Program must submit
  application packages to EPA by November 19, 2008. Applicants have the option
  to submit application packages in hard copy through the Postal Service or an
  overnight mail or courier delivery service. Applicants may be able to use
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA. Electronic applications submitted through Grants.gov have to
  be received no later than 11:59 pm Eastern Time on November 19, 2008. EPA
  will not review or fund any applications that are postmarked or received by
  Grants.gov after (November 19, 2008, or any applications that are received from
  ineligible applicants. The application package included the following materials:
  Overview of Application Package 1. Cover letter that outlines the following
  information: A. Contact information for the Project Lead B. Number of copies of
  the application (one original plus two copies) C. One sentence description of the
  project's goal D. Data exchanges (and data standards) for which the applicant is
  requesting funding E. Any additional partner on the grant F. The amount of
  funds requested G. Coordination efforts between the IM/IT and
  Environmental/Health Programs H. Signature of executive level official; 2. A list
  of no more than five (5) Federally or non-Federally funded assistance
  agreements performed in the last three (3) years of similar size and scope to the
  current proposal; 3. Project Narrative - Work Plan, including a Quality
  Assurance Narrative Statement (Work Plans must address the Evaluation Results
  (Section I-1) and Evaluation Criteria (Section V) in the work plan; 4. Budget
  Narrative and Detailed Itemized Budget; 5. Copy of applicant organization's
  Negotiated Indirect Cost Rate Agreement, if indirect costs are included in the
  budget or a copy of the submitted application to the cognizant fiduciary agency;
  and 6. Resume(s) of the Project Manager(s) or Project Lead(s).Inter-tribal
  consortia applying for the Exchange Network Grant Program must include
  written documentation in the application package that demonstrates the
  following: A formal partnership exists among the Indian tribal governments that
  are members of the inter-tribal consortium, and the majority of the members and
  federally recognized Indian tribes; and the consortium's Federally recognized
  tribal members have authorized the consortium to apply for and receive
  assistance (if awarded) from the Exchange Network Grant Program. Please note
  that after a potential grantee is notified of their selection for a recommendation
