  for an award, additional documents will be needed to complete the funding          
  package. Annual solicitation notices outline the format and page limitations for   
  the work plan and provide more detailed application instructions. EPA will not     
  review work plan pages in excess of the stipulated page limitation. If the         
  proposal is funded, the recipients would be required to submit a separate,         
  tailored Quality Assurance Project Plan based on guidance in the applicable        
  solicitation notice. EPA plans to post the solicitation notice for the FY 2009     
  Exchange Network Grant Program on the Web site in September 2008                   
  (http://www.epa.gov/exchangenetwork/grants). Please see the solicitation notice    
  for complete application instructions.                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,      
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated   
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in                 
  accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.      
  EPA will evaluate the project proposal based on how well and clearly the           
  applicant has articulated project outputs, outcomes and environmental results,     
  and whether they are tied to the intermediate outcomes as defined in Section I of  
  this Solicitation Notice (i.e., burden reduction, cost savings, improved quality of
  data, etc.). EPA will also evaluate the applicant's work plan for tracking and     
  measuring their progress towards achieving the expected outputs, outcomes, and     
  environmental results of the project proposal.                                     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Applications for the FY 2009 Exchange Network Grant must be postmarked on          
  or before November 19, 2008, or received electronically within Grants.gov at or    
  before 11:59 PM Eastern Standard Time on November 19, 2008.                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Applicants whose applications are denied for funding will be notified              
  approximately five months after the application deadline. Applicants whose         
  applications are recommended for funding will be notified, initially to request    
  additional documentation to finalize the application, and, later, when the         
  assistance agreements are issued and mailed by EPA's Grants and Interagency        
  Agreements Management Division, which is expected to be approximately eight        
  to nine months after the application deadline.                                     
Appeals:                                                                             
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in              
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal      
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also       
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."     
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients    
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Assistance will be provided through grants and cooperative agreements. EPA         
  may provide support in the form of direct funding and/or in-kind assistance, in    
  lieu of direct funding. EPA plans to issue awards for applications that are        
  recommended for funding approximately seven months after the application           
  deadline. The standard period of performance for projects funded by the            
  Exchange Network Grant Program is two years. EPA may consider requests             
  from award recipients for project/budget period extensions; and if deemed          
  appropriate by EPA, the Grants and Interagency Agreements Management               
  Division may issue amendments extending the project/budget periods.                
Reports:                                                                             
  Award recipients must submit semi-annual progress reports and a final project      
  report that covers the entire project period. The semi-annual progress reports     
  must be submitted within one month of the end of each semi-annual reporting        
  period. The reporting periods are from October through March and April             
  through September of each fiscal year. Award recipients must submit the final      
  project report and a final Financial Status Report (Standard Form 269) to EPA      
  within 90 days after the end of the project/budget period.                         
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each        
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit               
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in     
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, including all accounting records that substantiate the charges  
  to each grant, must be maintained and accessible to personnel authorized to        
  examine EPA grant accounts. If certain financial records are part of an audit      
  investigation, then they must be retained until the matter under investigation has 


                                                                                11-08
  been completely resolved. Award recipients must retain complete records
  documenting their projects for a period of seven years after the close-out of the
  agreement. Such records include, but are not limited to, financial records,
  technical reports, periodic performance progress reports, project management
  files, correspondence with other project partners, and correspondence with EPA.
  Final products and deliverables that result from the project are considered to be
  permanent records and should be retained indefinitely.
Account Identification:
  STAG Account: 68-0103-0-1-304; EPM Account: 68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  STAG Account: FY 07 $14,708,146; FY 08 $14,700,000; and FY 09 est
  $11,000,000. EPM Account: FY 07 $597,000; FY 08 $520,000; and FY 09 est
  $500,000. EPA will set aside approximately ten percent of appropriated funding
  for tribal assistance agreements to further facilitate expanded tribal participation
  in the Exchange Network.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  STAG Account: Award amounts will range from $75,000 to $500,000 for the
  entire two-year project period. The average award amount will be $300,000 for
  the entire two-year project period. EPM Account: The average award amount
  will be $250,000 for the entire two-year project period.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  FY 2009 will be the eighth year of the Exchange Network Grant program. As of
  2008 EPA provided an estimated total of $135,000,000 for State/territorial/tribal
  awards and associated program support awards through the Exchange Network
  Grant program. EPA's FY 2009 appropriations requests include an additional
  $11.0 million for the Exchange Network Grant program. In previous fiscal years,
  EPA received applications and made awards to state/territorial/tribal entities and
  associated program support awards as follows: FY 2007,77 applications, 57
  awards. FY 2008, 70 applications, 55 awards (estimated). As of early November
  2007, all states, the District of Columbia, Guam, the Commonwealth of the
  Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and more than
  50 tribes have received awards and been involved in the development of the
  Exchange Network. As of April 2008, the Exchange Network Grant Program
  had contributed to the development of 50 State, one territorial and 8 Tribal
  Exchange Network nodes. A number of additional nodes are currently under
  development. EPA and its partners are currently using or planning to use the
  Exchange Network to exchange data that relate to the following: Beaches
  (beaches water quality and closure data), Air Facility System (AFS), Air Quality
  System (AQS), Arsenic and Radon, Asbestos, Biodiversity Data Exchange,
  Drinking Water Laboratory Results, electronic Discharge Monitoring Reports (e-
  DMR), Facility Registry System (FRS), Geospatial, Institutional Controls
  Tracking System (ICTS), Integrated Compliance Information System/National
  Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (ICIS-NPDES), Methamphetamine,
  National Emissions Inventory (NEI), National Pollution Prevention (P2) Results
  System, Resource Conservation and Recovery Act Information System (RCRA
  Info), Safe Drinking Water Information System (SDWIS),Source Water
  Protection (SWP), Toxics Release Inventory System (TRIS), Underground
  Injection Control (UIC), and Water Quality Monitoring.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Exchange Network Grant Program assistance agreements issued to state,
  territorial, and tribal governments are governed by EPA's regulations at 40 CFR
  Part 31, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements to State and Local Governments." The assistance agreements issued
  to nonprofit organizations (i.e., co-regulator/co-implementor organizations) for
  associated program support for the Exchange Network Grant Program or other
  Exchange Network activities are governed by EPA's regulations at 40 CFR Part
  30, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit
  Organizations." General information and guidance documents regarding the
  Exchange Network are available at http://www.epa.gov/exchangenetwork.
  Information about the Exchange Network Grant Program and previously funded
  activities is available at http://www.epa.gov/exchangenetwork/grants.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Jonathan Jacobson, Chief, Information Exchange Partnership Branch, Office of
  Information Collection, Office of Environmental Information, Environmental
  Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Mail Code (2823-T),
  Washington, DC 20460; Telephone: (202) 566-1984; Fax: (202) 566-1684; E-
  mail: Jacobson.jonathan@epa.gov. Edward Mixon, Exchange Network Project
  Manager, Office of Information Collection, Office of Environmental
  Information, Environmental Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W.,
  Mail Code (2823-T), Washington, DC 20460; Telephone: (202) 566-2142; Fax:
  (202) 566-1624; E-mail: Mixon.Edward@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/oei .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.608, Environmental Information Exchange Network Grant Program and
  Related Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
                                                                                    995
