  Examples of some projects funded by the Exchange Network Grant Program are             
  described below: A State environmental agency is using grant funds to advance          
  the use of the State's Exchange Network node and to promote the efficient and          
  effective use of data to improve environmental conditions across the state. In         
  particular, the state EPA is using the Exchange Network to exchange data               
  associated with the Facility Registry System (FRS), the National Emissions             
  Inventory (NEI), and the Integrated Compliance Information System - National           
  Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (ICIS-NPDES). A State's Office of               
  Technology is using federal assistance to enhance the use of watershed modeling        
  in the state's environmental decision-making. In addition to the Office of             
  Technology, project partners include the State's Department for Environmental          
  Protection, the Office of Geographic Information, the Open GIS Consortium,             
  and the Geological Survey. The project involves developing a web-based                 
  watershed modeling information portal to provide timely watershed modeling             
  data to support state environmental decision-making. Project partners will also        
  work toward making the watershed modeling data available to other Exchange             
  Network partners through the state's Exchange Network node, which is currently         
  under development. A state's Department of the Environment is continuing to            
  develop an Exchange Network node to facilitate the exchange of information             
  from the state's Enterprise Environmental Management System (EEMS) with                
  EPA and other Exchange Network partners. The primary purpose of the project            
  is to advance the electronic exchange of data with EPA. The project focuses on         
  submitting data associated with the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act             
  Information System (RCRAInfo) and ICIS-NPDES from MDE's node to EPA's                  
  node on the Central Data Exchange. A State Department of Environmental                 
  Protection is working in partnership with other regional state and watershed           
  partners to use the Exchange Network to share data on Best Management                  
  Practices (BMP) for addressing non-point source pollution. This effort involves        
  developing and registering XML schema for exchanging BMP data. The                     
  watershed office receives BMP data from jurisdictions that participate in the          
  program and then enters the data in a regional watershed module and various            
  presentation tools for regional use. Four State environmental agencies                 
  collaborated to develop an application that would provide a range of critical          
  information to field personnel responding to emergencies such as flooding at           
  facilities that store toxic chemicals or an explosion at a chemical plant. By          
  using the Exchange Network technology, the project team created the Heartland          
  Emergency Response Exchange which can reach across organizational lines to             
  retrieve integrated environmental and natural resource data from agencies in           
  partner states. Emergency planners can quickly identify potential dangers posed        
  by chemical inventories or hazardous waste storage. In minutes, response teams         
  can assess threats to drinking water infrastructure or other environmental             
  interests. One of the key features of this system is its ability to visualize the data 
  using popular web-based mapping applications such as Google Earth or                   
  Microsoft Virtual Earth. In short, better information will offer opportunities for     
  more comprehensive planning and more informed responses.                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  The evaluation criteria for the FY 2008 Exchange Network Grant program was             
  described in the FY 2008 solicitation notice. The quantitative evaluation criteria     
  included such factors as expected project outputs/outcomes, the feasibility and        
  approach of the work plan, the relevance and significance of the proposed              
  project to the Exchange Network, the adequacy of resources and key personnel,          
  and past performance. EPA may also consider various qualitative criteria when          
  determining which applications to recommend for funding. Examples of such              
  qualitative criteria may include, but are not limited to, factors such as achieving    
  a balance among projects, distributing funds among different states/territories/       
  tribes, and having EPA programmatic support for the project. Applications for          
  non-competitive awards to co-regulator/co-implementor organizations, funded            
  by the Exchange Network Grant program through EPA's STAG appropriation,                
  will be evaluated based on the ability of the applicant to provide the following:      
  outreach, communications, technical assistance, and other support to                   
  states/tribes that are participating in, or may wish to participate in, the Exchange   
  Network; and support for state/territorial/tribal participation in the Network         
  Operations Board and related workgroups. Applications for non-competitive              
  awards to a co-regulator/co-implementor organization, funded through EPA's             
  EPM appropriation, will be evaluated based on the applicant's ability to               
  implement the types of activities described in the Objectives section of this          
  description.                                                                           
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
66.609 PROTECTION OF CHILDREN AND OLDER                                                  
ADULTS (ELDERLY) FROM ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH                                               
RISKS                                                                                    
                                                                                         
      (Children's Environmental Health and the Aging Initiative)                         
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  CHILD AND AGING HEALTH PROTECTION DIVISION, OFFICE OF                                  
  CHILDREN'S HEALTH PROTECTION AND ENVIRONMENTAL                                         
  EDUCATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           


996                                                                                11-08

  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
  Act, Section 20; Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section
  8001; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic Substances Control Act,
  Section 10; Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203;
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
  (CERCLA), Section 311; and National Environmental Policy Act, Section
  102(2)(F) for international awards.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support efforts by organizations; educational institutions; and/or State, local,
  and tribal governmental agencies to establish or enhance their ability to take
  actions that will reduce environmental risks to the health of children or the aging
  (elderly) population. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Support efforts to: (1)
  Create healthy school environments; (2) Build state, local, and tribal government
  capacity to address environmental health risks to children and older adults; (3)
  Educate health practitioners on environmental risks to children; (4) Implement a
  National Agenda for the Environment and the Aging to protect the health of
  older persons, prepare for an aging society, and encourage civic engagement
  among older adults; (5) Protect children and older adults from environmental
  hazards in local communities through civic engagement, demonstration projects,
  and other community capacity building activities; (6) Conduct environmental
  health tracking as it relates to older persons at the state level; (7) Protect children
  and older adults internationally from environmental health risks; (8)
  Demonstrate how smart growth activities can promote healthy communities for
  older adults and children; (9) Reduce environmental risks to children and older
  adults through intergenerational activities; (10) Educate women of childbearing
  age and their health care providers about preventing and reducing environmental
  health risks; (11) reduce environmental health disparities; (12) Educate older
  adults to be environmental leaders in their community and train other elders to
  be leaders and educate children and older adults about the importance of
  environmental stewardship and health.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable
  direct costs incident to approved surveys, studies, investigations, and special
  purpose assistance, plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established
  EPA policies and regulations. Funding awarded for research does not include
  research within the purview of EPA's Office of Research and Development.
  Funds awarded under Section 311(b)(3) of CERCLA must be used for projects
  relating to innovative or alternative treatment technologies that may be utilized
  in response actions to achieve more permanent protection of human health and
  welfare and the environment. Assistance agreement awards under this program
  may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States or state agencies,
  territories, the District of Columbia, American Indian Tribes (federally
  recognized), and possessions of the U.S. It is also available to public and private
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public or private
  nonprofit institutions, and 501(c)(3) organizations. Nonprofit organizations
  described in Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in
  lobbying activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of
  1995 are not eligible to apply. For profit organizations are generally not eligible
  for funding. Some of EPA's statutes may limit assistance to specific types of
  interested applications. See "Authorization" listed above. For certain competitive
  funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit
  eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with
  the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State agencies and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, American
  Indian Tribes, universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, and other public
  and private nonprofit institutions and organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation of nonprofit status may be required. Applicants may be
  requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training,
  experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects. The Child
  and Aging Health Protection Division within the Office of Children's Health
  Protection and Environmental Education may ask applicants or principal
  investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
