  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.        
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required    
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA            
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424, "Application for     
  Federal Assistance." Requests for application kits must be submitted to the       
  Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements                
  Management Division, (3903R), Washington, DC 20460 or through the                 
  appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.             
  Additional information on the EPA grant package can be found at:                  
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. For competitive awards, the       
  Requests for Initial Proposals or Requests for Applications will specify          
  application procedures. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to    
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.             
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,     
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated  
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance     
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Deadlines for competitive awards will be specified in the announcement of the     
  competitive funding opportunity.                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 180 days.                                                           
Appeals:                                                                            
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in             
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal     
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also      
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."    
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients   
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.               
Renewals:                                                                           
  None. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and cooperative agreements        
  for surveys, studies, and investigations. Approval of subsequent funding          
  increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of  
  the project to the Child and Aging Health Protection Division's program           
  priorities, and the availability of funds.                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula. EPA's Appropriation Act requires that      
  applicants submitting unsolicited research grant proposals share in the cost of   
  conducting research. The amount of the cost share will be based on the mutuality  
  of interest between the Government and the applicant. This requirement cannot     
  be waived by EPA. In addition, CERCLA Section 311(b)(3) requires that "to the     
  maximum extent possible," EPA enter into an appropriate cost sharing              
  arrangement with recipients of grants and cooperative agreements relating to      
  innovative and alternative treatment technologies. EPA may waive the Section      
  311(b)(3) cost-sharing requirement in appropriate cases. Matching funds           
  requirements may be established in program guidance or in the terms of            
  competitive solicitations.                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  EPA normally funds grants and cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis.         
  However, the Child and Aging Health Protection Division of the Office of          
  Children's Health Protection and Environmental Education can negotiate the        
  project period with each applicant based on project requirements. EPA limits      
  project periods to five (5) years. Grants and cooperative agreements may be       
  incrementally funded or fully funded. This determination is made by EPA.          
Reports:                                                                            
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in      
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,     
  interim, and final progress reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in
  EPA's grants regulations at 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31.                               
Audits:                                                                             
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the    
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,    
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.      
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each       
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,       
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit              
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in    
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that 
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                        
Records:                                                                            
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofits and institutions  
  of higher education) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable        
  depending upon the identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep financial      
  records, including all documents supporting entries on accounting records which   
  support substantial changes to the grant, available to personnel authorized to

  examine EPA recipients' grants and cooperative agreement records. Recipient



                                                                               11-08
  must maintain all records for a period of three years from the date of submission
  of final expenditures reports. If questions, such as those raised as a result of
  audits remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain records until
  the matter is fully resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $897,420; FY 08 est $600,000; and FY 09 estimate $250,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range - $10,000 to $150,000 per grant. Average - $100,000 per grant (2 year
  grants)
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Developed tools for organizations to work across generations to protect
  children's health from environmental risks; supported international effort to
  develop children's environmental health indicators; increased the capacity of
  health care providers to identify, prevent and manage environmentally-related
  illnesses in children in United States and around the world; increased state
  capacity to measure environmentally-related illnesses in older adults; increased
  state, local and tribal capacity to address environmental toxicants that can affect
  the health of older adults; developed multicultural leaders in the field of
  environment and aging; and successfully piloted environmental intergenerational
  projects in urban and rural settings (including projects that taught youth and
  elders about acid mine drainage and water quality monitoring; organic farming,
  solar energy and agribusiness; indoor air quality including mold and toxic
  cleaning products; e-cycling business; integrated pest management and the
  growth and migration of monarch butterflies). Data on the number and ratio of
  applications for FY 07: Building Capacity to Address Environmental Health
  Issues During Pregnancy - 40+ applications received, 4 awards made and 1
  award pending.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Surveys, studies, and investigations grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to EPA general grant regulations (40 CFR Part 30, "Grants and
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-
  Profit Organizations," and 40 CFR Part 31, "Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local
  Governments"). Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No.
  A-87 for State and local governments and federally recognized tribes, OMB
  Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A-122 for
  nonprofit institutions, and FAR Part 31 for "for profit" entities.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Child and Aging Health Protection Division, Office of Children's Health
  Protection and Environmental Education; EPA, Mail Code: 1107A; 1200
  Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20460. Fax: (202) 564-2733.
  Children's Health, Elizabeth Blackburn, Telelphone: (202) 564-2192; E-mail:
  blackburn.elizabeth@epa.gov. Aging Initiative (or health of older adults), Kathy
  Sykes, Telephone: (202) 564-3651; E-mail: sykes.kathy@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/children.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  State environmental and health agency process to develop an action agenda to
  reduce environmental triggers of childhood asthma and education of health care
  providers on environmental risks to children. Develop training tools to educate
  older Americans about environmental hazards in their communities. Training,
  innovation, outreach, and educational projects to protect the health of older
  adults and the environment. Public education materials to inform older persons
  about environmental hazards that affect health and the environment. Increase
  capacity of state legislators to deal effectively with children's environmental
  health issues at the state level. Build health professional capacity to address
  pediatric environmental health issues. Increase intergenerational cooperation to
  improve environmental health in urban and rural communities. Support the
  ability of schools to manage chemicals in a safe and effective manner.
  Demonstration projects to dispose of unwanted medications in a prudent
  manner. Build capacity with women of childbearing age and health professionals
  to address environmental health issues during pregnancy.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Non-competitive
  proposals are judged for: (a) technical merit in terms of: (1) strengths and
  weaknesses of the project, (2) adequacy of overall project design, (3)
  competency of proposed staff, (4) suitability of applicant's available resources,
  (5) appropriateness of the proposed project period and budget, and (6)
  probability that the project will accomplish stated objectives; and, for (b)
  program interest in terms of: (1) the need for the proposed project, and (2)
  relationship to program objectives.
                                                                                    997
