66.610 SURVEYS, STUDIES, INVESTIGATIONS AND                                            
SPECIAL PURPOSE GRANTS WITHIN THE OFFICE OF                                            
                                                                                       
THE ADMINISTRATOR                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF THE ADMINISTRATOR, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                                
  AGENCY                                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide        
  Act, Section 20; Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section       
  8001; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic Substances Control Act,           
  Section 10; Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203;           
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act                
  (CERCLA), Section 311; National Environmental Policy Act, Section 102(2)(F),         
  for international awards.                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  (1) To support surveys, studies, investigations, and special purpose assistance      
  associated with air quality, acid deposition, drinking water, water quality,         
  hazardous waste, toxic substances, and pesticides; (2) to identify, develop, and     
  demonstrate necessary pollution control techniques; (3) to prevent, reduce, and      
  eliminate pollution; (4) to evaluate the economic and social consequences of         
  alternative strategies and mechanisms for use by those in economic, social,          
  governmental, and environmental management positions; and (5) to promote             
  collaboration on projects and activities within the states and enable wider and      
  more coordinated state input on national environmental issues. Funding Priority      
  - Fiscal Year 2008: Priorities include support for environmental health              
  information and analysis to state legislatures; support to build state capacity to   
  reduce environmental hazards that may affect health and the environment;             
  support of environmental education training; support to promote and enhance          
  state collaboration by focusing on communication and the sharing of                  
  environmental information among states; support to detail environmental              
  outcome oriented indicators, measures, and goals that promote innovative             
  environmental protection; and support to increase efficiency in the state            
  environmental protection programs that results in cost-effective, sustainable        
  environmental protection. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Priorities            
  continue to include support for environmental health information and analysis to     
  state legislatures; support to build state capacity to reduce environmental          
  hazards that may affect health and the environment; support of environmental         
  education training; support to promote and enhance state collaboration by            
  focusing on communication and the sharing of environmental information               
  among states; support to detail environmental outcome oriented indicators,           
  measures, and goals that promote innovative environmental protection; and            
  support to increase efficiency in the state environmental protection programs        
  that results in cost-effective, sustainable environmental protection.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable     
  direct costs incident to approved surveys, studies, investigations and special       
  purpose assistance, plus allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established    
  EPA policies and regulations. Funding awarded for research does not include          
  research within the purview of EPA's Office of Research and Development.             
  Funds awarded under Section 311(b)(3) of CERCLA must be used for projects            
  relating to innovative or alternative treatment technologies that may be utilized    
  in response actions to achieve more permanent protection of human health and         
  welfare and the environment. Assistance agreement awards under this program          
  may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding       
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:             
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Assistance under this program is generally available to State agencies, territories, 
  the District of Columbia, Indian Tribes, and possessions of the U.S. Assistance      
  is also available to public and private universities and colleges, hospitals,        
  laboratories, and other public or private nonprofit institutions. Nonprofit          
  organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that       
  engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure     
  Act of 1995 are not eligible to apply. For profit organizations are generally not    
  eligible for funding. Some of EPA's statutes may limit assistance to specific        
  types of interested applications. See "Authorization" listed above. For certain      
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency            
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants        
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State agencies and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, Indian       
  Tribes, universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, and other public and     
  private nonprofit institutions.                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Documentation of nonprofit status may be required. Applicants may be                 
  requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training,        
  experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects. Office of    


998                                                                              11-08

  the Administrator may ask applicants or principal investigators to provide
  curriculum vitae and relevant publications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424, "Application for
  Federal Assistance." Requests for application kits must be submitted to the
  Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements
  Management Division, (3903R), Washington, DC 20460 or through the
  appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
  Additional information on the EPA grant package can be found at:
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. For competitive award, the
  Requests for Initial Proposals or Requests for Applications will specify
  application procedures. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines for competitive awards will be specified in Request for Applications
  or Request for Initial Proposals.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and cooperative agreements
  for surveys, studies, and investigations. Approval of subsequent funding
  increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of
  the project to the Office of the Administrator's program priorities, and the
  availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. EPA's Appropriation Act requires that
  applicants submitting unsolicited research grant proposals share in the cost of
  conducting research. The amount of the cost share will be based on the mutuality
  of interest between the Government and the applicant. This requirement cannot
  be waived by EPA. In addition, CERCLA Section 311(b)(3) requires that "to the
  maximum extent possible," EPA enter into an appropriate cost-sharing
  arrangement with recipients of grants and cooperative agreements relating to
  innovative and alternative treatment technologies. EPA may waive the Section
  311(b)(3) cost-sharing requirement in appropriate cases. Matching fund
  requirements may be established in program guidance or in the terms of
  competitive solicitations.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  EPA normally funds grants and cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis.
  However, the Office of the Administrator can negotiate the project period with
  each applicant based on project requirements. EPA limits project periods to 5
  years. Grants and cooperative agreements may be incrementally funded or fully
  funded. This determination is made by the EPA.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in EPA's grant regulations 40
  CFR Parts 30 and 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
