  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in     
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofits and institutions   
  of higher education) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable

  depending upon the identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep financial

                                                                                     
  records, including all documents supporting entries on accounting records which

  support substantial changes to the grant, available to personnel authorized to     
  examine EPA recipients' grants and cooperative agreement records. Recipient        
  must maintain all records for a period of three (3) years from the date of         
  submission of final expenditures reports. If questions, such as those raised as a  
  result of audits remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain records
  until the matter is fully resolved.                                                
Account Identification:                                                              
  68-1810-0-1-304.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $472,992; FY 08 est. $500,000; and FY 09 est. $500,000.                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Range - $500 to $500,000 per grant. Average amount of award - approximately        
  $150,000 per grant.                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  The Agency anticipates making one new award under this CFDA in Fiscal Year         
  2008. Although there were no new applications received and no new awards           
  made during Fiscal Year 2007, the program accomplishments of ongoing grants        
  were: (1) "Building of state capacity to improve results based management" --      
  The grant recipient developed 15 pilot projects to help States refine and expand   
  their strategic planning efforts to focus on lessons learned with an eye towards   
  better integration of multi-media approaches that achieve quantifiable             
  environmental outcomes. Some states focused their pilots on the development of     
  state priorities, multi-state priorities, and/or joint planning with EPA, while    
  others worked on the alignment of State, regional and national planning            
  processes. Information and experiences from the pilots will be used to evaluate    
  progress and identify additional improvements. These pilots are ongoing. (2)       
  Mercury Abatement helped States to educate and engage key public and private       
  sector leaders on the actions taken to reduce and manage mercury in the            
  environment. Grantee developed and published a mercury compendium of State         
  Mercury Activities and worked with States and EPA to implement a partnership       
  to reduce mercury in the environment. Developed and published an information       
  document on "Mercury Product Labeling." Also helped develop a National             
  Voluntary Mercury Switch Removal Program.                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Surveys, studies, and investigations grants and cooperative agreements are         
  subject to EPA general grant regulations (40 CFR Parts 30, "Grants and             
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-        
  Profit Organizations," and 40 CFR Part 31, "Uniform Administrative                 
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local              
  Governments"). Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-         
  87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21        
  for educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions,   
  and FAR Part 31 for "for profit" entities.                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  For information on grant applications and procedures, contact: Environmental

                                                                                     
  Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division,

                                                                                     
  (3903R), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20460. For program

                                                                                     
  information contact: Matthew Peters, Office of the Administrator, E-mail:

                                                                                     
  Peters.Matthew@epamail.epa.gov; Telephone: (202) 564-0222; Fax: (202) 501-

                                                                                     
  1534.                                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/adminweb/.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  66.611, Environmental Policy and Innovation Grants; 66.609, Protection of

                                                                                     
  Children and Older Adults (Elderly) from Environmental Health Risks.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                     
  EPA has funded projects that: (1) Strengthen State Capacity to Reduce and

                                                                                     
  Manage Mercury in the Environment; (2) build State capacity to improve

                                                                                     
  results-based environmental management and help States share information on

                                                                                     
  best practices; (3) support State efforts to deliver comprehensive environmental

                                                                                     
  compliance assistance to small local governments; (4) assist State efforts to more

                                                                                     
  accurately manage expenditures for water quality programs; (5) To utilize a

                                                                                     
  broad scope of work to include research, studies, demonstrations, training and

                                                                                     
  professional development in order to promote active state involvement in the

                                                                                     
  coordination of Federal/State efforts to reduce and eliminate pollution.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA

                                                                                     
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Non-competitive



                                                                                11-08
  proposals are judged for: (a) technical merit in terms of: (1) strengths and
  weaknesses of the project, (2) adequacy of overall project design, (3)
  competency of proposed staff, (4) suitability of applicant's available resources,
  (5) appropriateness of the proposed project period and budget, and (6)
  probability that the project will accomplish stated objectives; and, for (b)
  program interest in terms of: (1) the need for the proposed project, and (2)
  relationship to program objectives.
66.611 ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY AND INNOVATION
GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE ADMINISTRATOR, OFFICE OF POLICY, ECONOMICS
  AND INNOVATION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Air Act, Section 103; Clean Water Act, Section 104; Solid Waste
  Disposal Act, Section 8001; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1441; Toxics
  Substances Control Act, Section 10; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and
  Rodenticide Act, Section 20; Comprehensive Environmental Response,
  Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA), Section 104(k)(6) and 311, as
  amended; and National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), Section 102(2)(F)
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To support analyses, studies, evaluations, workshops, conferences, and
  demonstration projects that lead to reduced pollutants generated and
  conservation of natural resources; (2) to improve economic information and
  analytic methods to support studies, surveys, analyses, evaluations, conferences,
  workshops, and demonstration projects on the benefits, costs, and impacts of
  environmental programs; and (3) to improve economic information and analytic
  methods to support studies, surveys, analyses, evaluations, conferences,
  workshops, and demonstration projects of incentive-based and voluntary
  environmental management strategies and mechanisms; and (4) to support
  research to explore and develop strategies and mechanisms for those in the
  economic, social, governmental, and environmental arenas to use in
  environmental management decisions. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008:
  Pending budget decisions, the funding priorities for this program may include
  continued support for innovative projects related to exploring, testing, or
  implementing smart growth policies and other environmentally preferable
  approaches to development. In the area of economic research, pending budget
  decisions, there will be a solicitation focused on economic workshops and an
  economic research solicitation which may focus on methods to improve capacity
  to measure economic value of health and ecological benefits. The latter will be
  supported under the Economics and Decision Sciences Program that prior to FY
  2008 had been administered by EPA's Office of Research and Development,
  National Center for Environmental Research. Effective in FY 2008,
  responsibility and resources for this program were transferred within EPA to the
  Office of Policy, Economics and Innovation. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year
  2009: Pending budget decisions, the funding priorities for this program may
  include continued support for innovative projects related to exploring, testing, or
  implementing smart growth policies and other environmentally preferable
  approaches to development. In the area of economic research, pending budget
  decisions, there will be one or two solicitations focused on (1) methods to
  improve capacity to measure economic value of health and ecological benefits,
  or (2) use of market-based approaches to accomplish environmental
  management objectives. These solicitations will be supported under the
  Economics and Decision Sciences Program that prior to FY 2008 had been
  administered by EPA's Office of Research and Development, National Center for
  Environmental Research. Effective in FY 2008, responsibility and resources for
  this program were transferred within EPA to the Office of Policy, Economics
  and Innovation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable
  direct costs incident to approved Environmental Policy and Innovation plus
  allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and
  regulations. Funding awarded for research does not include research within the
  purview of EPA's Office or Research and Development. Funds awarded under
  Section 311(b)(3) of CERCLA must be used for projects relating to innovative
  or alternative treatment technologies that may be utilized in response actions to
  achieve more permanent protection of human health and welfare and the
  environment. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or
  relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial
  information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States and local
  governments, territories and possessions, foreign governments, international
  organizations, Indian Tribes, interstate organizations, intrastate organizations,
  and possessions of the U.S., including the District of Columbia, public and
                                                                                      999
