  private universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public or private 
  nonprofit institutions, and individuals. Nonprofit organizations described in       
  Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying              
  activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not   
  eligible to apply. For profit organizations are generally not eligible for funding. 
  Some of EPA's statutes may limit assistance to specific types of interested         
  applicants. See "Authorization" listed above. For certain competitive funding       
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to      
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the            
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy. National laboratories             
  funded by Federal Agencies (Federally-Funded Research and Development               
  Centers, "FFRDCs") may not apply. FFRDC employees may cooperate or                  
  collaborate with eligible applicants within the limits imposed by applicable        
  legislation and regulations. They may participate in planning, conducting, and      
  analyzing the research directed by the applicant, but may not direct projects on    
  behalf of the applicant organization. The institution, organization, or governance  
  receiving the award may provide funds through its grant from the EPA to an          
  FFRDC for research personnel, supplies, equipment, and other expenses directly      
  related to the research. However, salaries for permanent FFRDC employees may        
  not be provided through this mechanism. Federal Agencies may not apply.             
  Federal employees are not eligible to serve in a principal leadership role on a     
  grant, and may not receive salaries or augment their Agency's appropriations in     
  other ways through grants made by this program.                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, Indian Tribes,       
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public and private        
  nonprofit institutions, and individuals.                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Documentation of nonprofit status may be required. Applicants may be                
  requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training,       
  experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects. EPA may     
  ask applicants or principle investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant  
  publications.                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive       
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify    
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be     
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional             
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see      
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.        
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should          
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or  
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in  
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required      
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA              
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424, "Application for       
  Federal Assistance." Requests for application kits must be submitted to the         
  Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements                  
  Management Division, (3903R), Washington, DC 20460 or through the                   
  appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.               
  Additional information on the EPA grant package can be found at:                    
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. Requests for Initial                
  Proposals or Requests for Applications will specify application procedures.         
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for     
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  For non-competitive awards, EPA will conduct an administrative evaluation to        
  determine the adequacy of application in relation to grant regulations and to       
  technical and program evaluation to determine the merit and relevance of the        
  project. The Agency will then advise the applicant if funding is being              
  considered. A final work plan will then be negotiated with the applicant. For       
  competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,           
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated    
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance       
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements. For              
  competitions administered as part of the Economic and Decision Sciences             
  program, it is planned for OPEI to adhere to the policies and procedures            
  followed previously by ORD, NCER when their office was responsible for              
  administering the program. The details of this process are to be settled upon       
  during FY2008 in conjunction with the transfer of personnel and resources           
  associated with the EDS program as they move from ORD to OPEI.                      
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines will be specified in Request for Applications or Request for Initial      
  Proposals.                                                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 180 days for most competitive solicitations. For competitive          
  solicitations administered under the Economic and Decision Sciences program,        
  the time to notification is approximately 240 days.                                 


1000                                                                            11-08

Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and cooperative agreements
  for Environmental Policy and Innovation. Approval of subsequent funding
  increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of
  the project to EPA's priorities, availability of funds, and Agency policy on the
  competitive grant process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. CERCLA 311(b)(3) requires that "to the
  maximum extent possible," EPA enter into an appropriate cost sharing
  arrangement with recipients of grants and cooperative agreements relating to
  innovative and alternative treatment technologies. EPA may waive the 311(b)(3)
  cost sharing requirement in appropriate cases. Matching requirements may be
  established in program guidance or the terms of competitive solicitations.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  EPA normally funds grants and cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis.
  However, EPA can negotiate the project period with each applicant based on
  project requirements. EPA limits project periods to 5 years. Grants and
  cooperative agreements may be incrementally or fully funded. This
  determination will be made by the EPA.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Specific reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant
  Regulations 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (non-profits and
  universities) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable depending
  upon the identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep financial records,
  including all documents supporting entries on accounting records and to
  substantiate changes in grants, available to personnel authorized to examine
  EPA recipients grants and cooperative agreements records. Recipients must
  maintain all records until 3 years from the date of submission of final
  expenditure reports. If questions, such as those raised as a result of audits remain
  following the 3-year period, recipients must retain records until the matter is
  completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-1810-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  OBLIGATIONS: For awards directed at smart growth issues, the following
  distributions and projections are - FY 07 total awarded through new awards and
  incremental funding: $618,500; FY 08 total expected to be awarded through
  new awards and incremental funding: $922,000; FY 09 projected new awards
  and incremental funding: $958,000. For awards directed at economic analysis
  and research topics, including funding provided under the Economic and
  Decision Sciences program, the following distributions and projections are - FY
  07 total awarded through new awards and incremental funding: $2,179,000
  (majority of funds supporting Economic and Decision Sciences program, in
  response to solicitations initiated when program managed by ORD, NCER
  during FY 2006-2007). FY 08 total expected to be awarded through new awards
  and incremental funding: $1,200,000 (of which $600,000 supporting Economics
  and Decision Sciences program). FY 09 projected new awards and incremental
  funding: $1,500,000 (of which $1,000,000 supporting Economics and Decision
  Sciences program)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For awards related to smart growth, the range is from $30,000 to $250,000, with
  an average of $90,000. For awards in the area of economics - related to
  Workshops: range is $20,000 - $200,000, with an average award of $75,000.
  Related to Research: range is $50,000-$1,000,000, with an average of $300,000.
  There were no earmarks included in FY 2007 or FY 2008. Do not anticipate any
  earmarks in FY 2009.
