PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Through managed competitions awarded in FY 05, assistance agreements were         
  awarded to organizations to support the Agency's Smart Growth Program.            
  Although there were no competitions in FY 06, examples of activities funded       
  through incremental funding include development of guidelines for green, dense    
  urban redevelopment, identification of barriers to smart growth and development   
  of options to eliminate them, support for smart growth visioning and recognition  
  programs, and co-sponsorship of a smart growth conference. In FY 07, examples

  of funded activities include identification of barriers to smarth growth and

                                                                                    
  deveopment of options to eliminate them, support for smart growth visioning

  and recognition programs, and co-sponsorship of a smart growth conference.        
  The ratio of applications received to those awarded is about 10:1 for the smart   
  growth program. As in past years, grants supporting workshops and conferences     
  related to economic research and analysis are expected to be awarded in FY

  2008. The FY 2008 solicitation for workshops is expected to receive 20-30         
  applications, of which it is expected that 8-10 will be awarded funds in FY2008.  
   The Economics and Decision Sciences research program in FY2007 completed         
  selection of awards for two solicitations "Market Mechanisms and Incentives:      
  Case Studies and Experimental Testbeds for New Environmental Trading              
  Programs (2006)" totaling awards of $1,336,000 and "Methodological Advances       
  in Benefit Transfer Methods (2006)" totaling awards of $592,000. There were       
  three grants awarded for each of the two solicitations. The ratio of applications 
  received to those awarded in the area of economic analysis and research is about  
  4:1. The research supported by this program helps to strengthen the quality and   
  completeness of the scientific information used in preparing economic analyses.   
                                                                                    
  The program works to fill gaps in the quantification of the costs and benefits

                                                                                    
  associated with environmental regulations and policies. As an example, one

                                                                                    
  grant recipients listed the following accomplishments associated with a series of

                                                                                    
  economic workshops funded under this program: For the 2007 Workshop, 324

                                                                                    
  researchers were invited, and 106 participated. We will continue to obtain

                                                                                    
  feedback on the program and workshop in our effort to improve quality. We will

                                                                                    
  also track the papers afterwards to gauge their success in publication. We have

                                                                                    
  some data on successful progress toward publication of papers that were

                                                                                    
  presented at prior workshops for years 2005 and 2006. Eleven papers were

                                                                                    
  presented each year. Any given paper can easily take more than two years to get

                                                                                    
  published, even if it is revised for the very first journal to which it was

                                                                                    
  submitted. Of the eleven papers from the summer of 2006, three are already

                                                                                    
  forthcoming or published in peer reviewed journals. In addition, three are being

                                                                                    
  revised for resubmission. Of eleven papers presented at the 2005 Workshop, one

                                                                                    
  is being revised for resubmission, and nine are forthcoming or published.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Environmental Policy and Innovation grants and cooperative agreements are         
  subject to EPA's General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part        
  31). Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for        
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for          
  educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions, and  
  FAR Part 31 for profit makers.                                                    
                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA       
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters        
  program contacts listed below.                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  For information on grant applications and procedures, contact: Environmental      
  Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division,         
  1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code: 3903R, Washington, DC 20460.           
  For program information contact Pamela Stirling; Telephone: (202) 566-0949;       
  Fax: (202) 566-3001; E-mail: stirling.pamela@epa.gov.                             
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.epa.gov/opei.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  66.034, Surveys, Studies, Research, Investigations, Demonstrations, and Special   
  Purpose Activities Relating to the Clean Air Act; 66.436, Surveys, Studies,       
  Investigations, Demonstrations, and Training Grants and Cooperative               
  Agreements - Section 104(b)(3) of the Clean Water Act; 66.813, Alternative or     
  Innovative Treatment Technology Research, Demonstration, Training, and            
  Hazardous Substance Research Grants; 66.940, Environmental Policy and State       
  Innovation Grants.                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Under 66.611, EPA has funded projects such as reviewing a city's municipal        
  code; identifying barriers to smart growth and developing options to eliminate    
  the specific barriers; integrating redevelopment solutions for brownfields for a  
  particular State; sponsoring economic policy or economic methodology              
  development workshops and conferences; supporting applied dissertations in        
  environmental economics; and supporting high priority environmental economic      
  research topics. Details on economic projects funded under prior solicitations    
  can be found at the webaddress:                                                   
  http://yosemite.epa.gov/ee/epa/eed.nsf/Webpages/Grants.html.                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA      
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Non-competitive    


                                                                              11-08 
  proposals are judged for: (a) technical merit in terms of: (1) strengths and
  weaknesses of the project; (2) adequacy of overall project design; (3)
  competency of proposed staff; (4) suitability of applicant's available resources;
  (5) appropriateness of the proposed project period and budget; and (6)
  probability that the project will accomplish stated objectives; and, for (b)
  program interest in terms of: (1) the need for the proposed project; and (2)
  relationship to program objectives.
66.612 SURVEYS, STUDIES, INVESTIGATIONS, TRAINING
DEMONSTRATIONS AND EDUCATIONAL OUTREACH
RELATED TO ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION AND
THE RELEASE OF TOXIC CHEMICALS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL INFORMATION, OFFICE OF
  INFORMATION ANALYSIS AND ACCESS, TOXICS RELEASE
  INVENTORY PROGRAM DIVISION, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
  AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide
  Act, Section 20; Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section
  8001; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic Substances Control Act,
  Section 10.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide funding in support of surveys, studies, investigations,
  training/demonstrations, educational outreach and special purpose assistance as
  they relate to environmental information and the release of toxic chemicals. The
  purpose of this program is to educate the public on the how to obtain access to
  and effectively use environmental information, including information about
  toxic chemical releases and other waste management activities. Through this
  grant program EPA intends to enhance the public understanding of
  environmental information generally and the potential risks and hazards of
  releases of toxic chemicals to their communities as they relate to facilities
  covered under the Toxic Release Inventory Program; support efforts to assist
  State, tribal and local governments improve management of environmental
  information; identify priorities and opportunities for the public and state, tribal
  and local governments to work with industry to reduce toxic chemical disposal
  or other releases and potential risks associated with them; and establish
  reduction targets and measure progress toward reduction goals. Funding Priority
  - Fiscal Year 2008: Topics include, but are not limited to the following:
  promotion of pollution prevention and the public's right to know about chemical
  risks, evaluation of chemicals to safeguard all Americans, including children and
  other vulnerable members of the population, as well as, our most threatened
  species and ecosystems from environmental harm. Types of activities include
  but not limited to the following: Capacity Building - identifying and developing
  relationships with key audiences for Toxics Release Inventory (TRI) information
  to ensure more effective presentation, dissemination, understanding, and better
  use of TRI data and information; Education and Outreach - creating a forum for
  all interested stakeholders to stay up to date on the latest TRI regulatory
  developments, electronic reporting advances, and new data access and analytical
  tools, as well as providing opportunities for all interested TRI stakeholders and
  data users to exchange information and expertise regarding the use of TRI data;
  and Community Issues - developing a clearinghouse where all interested
  stakeholders can access information about the TRI program and realize how the
  information and resources can support their individual program goals and
  objectives. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009 (optional): Topics include, but
  are not limited to the following: promotion of pollution prevention and the
  public's right to know about chemical risks, evaluation of chemicals to safeguard
  all Americans, including children and other vulnerable members of the
  population, as well as, our most threatened species and ecosystems from
  environmental harm. Types of activities include but not limited to the following:
  Capacity Building - identifying and developing relationships with key audiences
  for TRI information to ensure more effective presentation, dissemination,
  understanding, and better use of TRI data and information; Education and
  Outreach - creating a forum for all interested stakeholders to stay up to date on
  the latest TRI regulatory developments, electronic reporting advances, and new
  data access and analytical tools, as well as providing opportunities for all
  interested TRI stakeholders and data users to exchange information and
  expertise regarding the use of TRI data; and Community Issues - developing a
  clearinghouse where all interested stakeholders can access information about the
  TRI program and realize how the information and resources can support their
  individual program goals and objectives.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable
  direct costs incident to approved scopes of work plus allowable indirect costs, in
  accordance with established EPA policies and regulations. Funding awarded for
  research does not include research within the purview of EPA's Office of
                                                                                  1001
