  Research and Development. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB            
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB             
  Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions, and OMB Circular No. A-122 for       
  nonprofit institutions.                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Assistance under this program is generally available to states, the District of      
  Columbia, US territories (for example, American Samoa, Guam, the                     
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the US                
  Virgin Islands), federally recognized Indian tribes, intertribal consortia of        
  federally recognized tribes, public and private colleges and universities, and       
  other public or private nonprofit organizations. Nonprofit organizations exempt      
  from taxation under Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that lobby        
  are not eligible for financial assistance. For certain competitive funding           
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to       
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the             
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State, territory, city, town, county, and regional governments; federally            
  recognized Indian tribes and intertribal consortia of federally recognized tribes;   
  public institutions and industries subject to EPA regulatory reporting               
  requirements; and the public.                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicants must demonstrate that they have appropriate background, academic          
  training, experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects.    
  EPA will ask applicants or principle investigators to provide curricula vitae and    
  relevant publications. EPA may ask for documentation of nonprofit status.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  EPA awards grants and cooperative agreements supporting surveys, studies and         
  investigations, demonstrations, educational outreach and special purpose             
  projects that consider the relevance to EPA's mission and the likelihood of the      
  success of proposed projects. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance      
  with respect to competitive funding opportunities under this program                 
  description, EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-       
  proposal assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive 
  announcement. For additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as        
  "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is            
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal         
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the      
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the  
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected  
  the program for review.                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for      
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA. The standards application forms as      
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 and           
  A-110 must be used for this program. EPA requires final applications to be           
  made on Standard Form 424. Application kits should be requested from and             
  submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency, Grants Interagency                 
  Agreements Management Division, 3903R, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N. W.,              
  Washington, DC 20460 or the appropriate EPA Regional Office identified in            
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. Detailed information and assistance, including and       
  application kit, required forms, and a check list may also be found at               
  http//www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/ . For competitive awards, the competitive              
  announcement will specify application procedures.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,        
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated     
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance        
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                   
Deadlines:                                                                             
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in the competitive               
  announcement.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 180 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                               
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in                
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal        
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also         
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."       
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients      
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                  
Renewals:                                                                              
  None. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and cooperative agreements           
  for surveys, studies, and investigations. Approval of subsequent funding             
  increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of     
  the project to EPA's priorities, and availability of funds, and the Agency policy    
  on the competitive grant process.                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 


1002                                                                             11-08

  EPA normally funds grants and cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis.
  However, EPA can negotiate the project period with each applicant based on
  project requirements.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant Regulations, 40
  CFR Parts 30 and Part 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31 are applicable
  depending upon the identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep financial
  records, including all documents supporting entries on accounting records and to
  substantiate changes in grants available to personnel authorized to examine EPA
  recipients grants and cooperative agreements records. All records must be
  maintained until expiration of three years from the date of submission of the
  final expenditure report. If questions, such as those raised as a result of audits
  remain following the 3-year period, recipients must retain records until the
  matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $225,000; and FY 09 est. $200,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Estimated $15,000 to $350,000 with an average of $200,000 annually.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not applicable.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Surveys, studies, and investigations grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to EPA's General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part
  31). Costs will be determined on accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  educational institutions, and OMB Circular No. A-122 for non-profit
  institutions. Research and demonstration projects are subject to 40 CFR Part 40.
  Training grants are subject to 40 CFR Part 45.
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA
  Regional Office listed in http://www.epa.gov/tri/contacts_regional.htm or in
  Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters program contacts listed
  below.
Headquarters Office:
  For information on grant applications and procedures, contact: Environmental
  Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division,
  3903R, Washington, DC 20460. For program information contact: Peggy
  Bagnoli, Telephone: (202) 566-1230, E-Mail: Bagnoli.Peggy@epa.gov, Fax:
  (202) 566-0727.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/oei.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.034, Surveys, Studies, Research, Investigations, Demonstrations, and Special
  Purpose Activities Relating to the Clean Air Act; 66.424, Surveys, Studies,
  Investigations, Demonstrations, and Training Grants - Section 1442 of the Safe
  Drinking Water Act; 66.436, Surveys, Studies, Investigations, Demonstrations,
  and Training Grants and Cooperative Agreements - Section 104(b)(3) of the
  Clean Water Act; 66.510, Surveys, Studies, Investigations and Special Purpose
  Grants within the Office of Research and Development.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  We currently have one cooperative agreement - with ECOS to "support TRI
  Capacity Building, Education and Outreach efforts, and development of a
  Clearinghouse. This is the only project under this CFDA and it is a five year
  project period not to exceed $1,000,000. This CFDA was originated in
  September 2007 and approved in November 2007.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. EPA selects
  proposed Surveys, Studies, and Investigations projects for funding based on
  factors such as relevancy to EPA's mission, technical merit, and the likelihood of
  success. If EPA issues a solicitation for applications for a particular project or
