  group of projects, the solicitation will identify specific criteria.                 
                                                                                       
66.700 CONSOLIDATED PESTICIDE ENFORCEMENT                                              
                                                                                       
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF ENFORCEMENT AND COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE,                                      
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Section 23, as Amended,         
  Public Law 92-516, as amended; Public Laws 94-140 and 95-396, 7 U.S.C. 136           
  et seq.                                                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To (a) Assist States, territories and possessions of the U.S., including the District
                                                                                       
  of Columbia and Indian Tribes, in developing and maintaining comprehensive

                                                                                       
  pesticide programs that address all aspects of pesticide enforcement, and special

                                                                                       
  pesticide initiatives; (b) sponsor cooperative surveillance, monitoring and

  analytical procedures; and (c) encourage regulatory activities within the States.    
                                                                                       
  Funding Priority: State, Territorial, and Tribal agencies participating in this

                                                                                       
  cooperative agreement program receive funds to support and strengthen their

                                                                                       
  pesticide compliance programs, including pesticide compliance monitoring,

                                                                                       
  inspection and enforcement activities. Funding Priority -- Fiscal Year 2008.

                                                                                       
  Two specific compliance monitoring and enforcement activities have been

                                                                                       
  identified as major priorities for this program: the pesticide workers' protection

                                                                                       
  program and pesticides used to protect public health. Other typical program

                                                                                       
  activities include inspections and observations at pesticide application sites to

                                                                                       
  ensure user compliance with label directions and acceptable use practices,

                                                                                       
  inspections of pesticide products at producing facilities and in the retail

                                                                                       
  marketplace to ensure industry compliance with registration, classification, and

                                                                                       
  labeling requirements, and initiation of appropriate enforcement action when

                                                                                       
  violations are detected including civil and criminal prosecution, stop sale orders,

                                                                                       
  seizures, recalls and warning notices. Funding Priority -- Fiscal Year 2009. Two

                                                                                       
  specific compliance monitoring and enforcement activities have been identified

                                                                                       
  as major priorities for this program: the pesticide workers' protection program

                                                                                       
  and pesticides used to protect public health. Other typical program activities

                                                                                       
  include inspections and observations at pesticide application sites to ensure user

                                                                                       
  compliance with label directions and acceptable use practices, inspections of

                                                                                       
  pesticide products at producing facilities and in the retail marketplace to ensure

                                                                                       
  industry compliance with registration, classification, and labeling requirements,

                                                                                       
  and initiation of appropriate enforcement action when violations are detected        
  including civil and criminal prosecution, stop sale orders, seizures, recalls, and   
  warning notices.                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Available for costs specifically incurred in purchasing inspectional supplies and    
  equipment; reimbursing State travel and per diem expenses associated with the        
  performance of grant outputs; purchasing essential laboratory equipment and          
  supplies; paying salaries for personnel performing inspectional, analytical and/or   
  managerial functions related to grant activities, and for administrative costs       
  associated with the performance of grant outputs. There are no specific              
  restrictions on the use of this assistance.                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State agencies having pesticide compliance program responsibilities in each          
  State, territory and possession of the U.S., including the District of Columbia,     
  and Indian Tribes.                                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  States, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, U.S. Territories and         
  the District of Columbia.                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  The application must supply evidence of legal authority to conduct pesticide         
  compliance activities contemplated under the grant and a workable program

                                                                                       
  officially adopted for the agency. Costs will be determined in accordance with       
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Discussions or informal meetings with Regional program offices concerning

                                                                                       
  program preparation are advisable. The standard application forms as furnished

                                                                                       
  by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used

                                                                                       
  for this program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Requests for application form and completed applications should be submitted

                                                                                       
  to the appropriate EPA Regional Office (see Appendix IV of the Catalog). The

                                                                                       
  enforcement program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-

                                                                                       
  110. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply

                                                                                       
  for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Each application shall be subjected to administrative coordination to determine      
  adequacy in relation to grant regulations, and to technical and program              
  evaluation to determine merit and relevancy of the project. States will be notified  
  of Federal Assistance Awards through the Federal Assistance Awards Data



                                                                                  11-08
  System (FAADS). Applicants may use http://www.grants.gov to electronically
  apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Deadlines:
  Applications are due 60 days prior to the beginning of the budget period,
  normally August 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 60 days.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Applicants must reapply.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects are normally funded for a 12-month period. Payments will be on an
  advance letter of credit or reimbursement basis; recipient must request the initial
  advance payment on SF 270, Request for Advance or Reimbursement.
Reports:
  As requested in the Annual Program Guidance for inclusion in the grant award;
  quarterly with mid-year and year-end evaluations.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate charges to each cooperative agreement must be kept
  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records
  must be maintained for three years from the date of the submission of the annual
  financial status report or longer if questions still remain, such as those raised as
  a result of audit.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $19,063,600; FY 08 $ 18,419,000; and FY 09 18,711,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Enforcement/States: $31,100(territory) to $676,400; $264,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Consolidated Pesticide Enforcement Cooperative Agreements are
  continuing environmental program grants. In fiscal years 2007 and 2008, 85
  applications for pesticide enforcement grants were received and 85 grants
  awarded. Agencies participating in the Federal cooperative agreement program
  receive funds to support and strengthen pesticide compliance monitoring,
  inspection, and enforcement activities. Typical program activities include
  inspections and observations at pesticide application sites to ensure user
  compliance with label directions and acceptable use practices, inspections of
  pesticide products at producing facilities and in the retail marketplace to ensure
  industry compliance with registration, classification, and labeling requirements,
  and initiation of appropriate enforcement action when violations are detected
  including civil and criminal prosecution, stop sale orders, seizures, recalls, and
  warning notices. The States will also develop implementation plans for special
  pesticide initiatives. States will be responsible for dissemination of information
  and materials related to these pesticide initiatives. States, Territories, and Tribes
  that are participating in the pesticide enforcement cooperative agreements
  program conducted 99,750 compliance monitoring inspections in FY 2007.
  These inspections were conducted at agricultural establishments, pesticide
  producers and retailers, ports of entry, at pesticide applicators, as well as at other
  site where pesticides were distributed, sold, or used. As a result of these
  inspections, 18,015 enforcement actions were initiated in FY 2007 (civil and
  criminal actions, license suspensions or revocation, warning letters,). For FY
  2008, the number of inspections is expected to be between 90,000 and 105,000.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  EPA Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements to State and Local Governments (40 CFR Part 31); Environmental
  Protection Agency, State and Local Assistance (40 CFR Part 35 Subpart A),
  October 12, 1982.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Al Havinga, Office Of Compliance, Office of Enforcement and Compliance
  Assurance (2225A), EPA, Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 564-4147.
  Fax: 202-564-0085. E-mail: havinga.al@epa.gov.
                                                                                     1003
