Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.epa.gov/compliance.                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  State agencies participating in the Federal/State cooperative agreement program      
  receive funds to support and strengthen their pesticide compliance programs,         
  including pesticide compliance monitoring, inspection and enforcement                
  activities as well as special pesticide initiatives activities. Typical program      
  activities, include inspections and observations at pesticide application sites to   
  ensure user compliance with label directions and acceptable use practices,           
  inspections of pesticide products at producing facilities and in the retail          
  marketplace to ensure industry compliance with registration, classification, and     
  labeling requirements, inspections and investigations at ports of entry to assess    
  compliance with import and export requirements, and initiation of appropriate        
  enforcement action when violations are detected, including civil and criminal        
  prosecution, stop sale orders, seizures, recalls and notices. The special pesticide  
  initiatives are new projects, which include the development of State management      
  plans for the protection of groundwater and endangered species from pesticides       
  and development of worker protection programs.                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Each application will be reviewed by the Environmental Protection Agency             
  according to the following criteria: (1) Need: The need for the development,         
  improvement and/or maintenance of a comprehensive pesticides enforcement             
  program within the State that includes enforcement, new initiative programs,         
  and programs that address existing environmental problems, potential problems,       
  and/or existing exposed populations related to the use of pesticides. (2) State      
  Pesticide Activity: The relative amount of pesticide production, formulation and     
  use in a State, and the potential risk to human health and the environment from      
  pesticide misuse or abuse. (3) Long-Term Impact: The potential of the                
  cooperative agreement to have a long-term beneficial impact on human health          
  and the environment resulting from the comprehensive pesticide program. (4)          
  Effectiveness of program: The past level and effectiveness of the State pesticide    
  program. (5) level of activity as indicated by such factors as numbers of farms      
  and numbers of applicators. (6) Magnitude of effort needed to accomplish             
  expected outputs and products; and (7) Ability to accomplish output goals.           
                                                                                       
66.701 TOXIC SUBSTANCES COMPLIANCE MONITORING                                          
                                                                                       
COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS

                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF ENFORCEMENT AND COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE,                                      
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA), as amended, Section 28, and 404(g)              
  Public Law 102-550, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et seq.                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To (1) assist States, territories and possessions of the U.S. including the District 
  of Columbia, the commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and Indian Tribes in                   
  developing and maintaining compliance monitoring programs to prevent or              
  eliminate unreasonable risks to health or the environment associated with            
  chemical substances or mixtures within the States, specifically asbestos, PCBs,      
  and lead-based paint; (2) encourage regulatory activities within the States to       
  establish their own programs for lead-based paint and asbestos (waiver               
  programs); and (3) for asbestos waiver state programs and lead-based paint           
  programs fund enforcement activities. EPA provides funding for cooperative           
  compliance monitoring grants to States and Tribes under TSCA to conduct              
  inspections to ensure compliance with the PCB regulations, the asbestos in           
  schools requirements (inspections at charter schools, public schools, private        
  schools and religious schools), the Model Accreditation Plan (MAP), and TSCA         
  Asbestos Worker Protection Standards, and to conduct lead-based paint                
  activities. Authorized States also conduct enforcement for the lead-based            
  program. States that have obtained an EPA waiver from the asbestos regulation        
  (Subpart E of Part 763) also have enforcement responsibilities. Funding Priority     
  - Fiscal Year 2008: For the Fiscal Year 2008 TSCA asbestos grant programs,           
  asbestos waiver states have higher funding priority. For the TSCA PCB, Lead          
  and asbestos programs compliance monitoring activities are a funding priority,       
  specifically ensuring uniform coverage of regulated community. The activities in     
  priority order are tracking and responding to tips, complaints, and situations       
  involving non-compliance. In addition, funding to ensure that state inspectors       
  who conduct inspections using EPA credentials meet the minimum training              
  standards will also be a priority. The standards are found in the September 30,      
  2004 "Guidance for Issuing Federal EPA Inspector Credentials to Authorize            
  Employees of State/Tribal Governments to Conduct Inspections on Behalf of            
  EPA." It is a priority for states to conduct inspections and respond to tips and     
  complaints (including taking enforcement action where appropriate). Special          
  attention should be given to tips alleging asbestos contamination at schools. Any    
  person may file a complaint with the Administrator or with the Governor of the       
  State in which the school building is located with respect to asbestos-containing    
  material in a school building. Inspections should address charter schools, public    
1004                                                                             11-08

  schools, private schools and religious schools. Inspections may be conducted for
  the Model Accreditation Plan (MAP), and the TSCA Asbestos Worker
  Protection Standards. In non-waiver states with grants, the regions will follow-up
  on violations referred by the states, and develop appropriate enforcement
  responses. States must forward to the regional office inspection reports from
  inspections conducted with EPA credentials for appropriate follow-up. Where
  applicable, the regions should encourage states to apply for the "waiver"
  program. The PCB program is part of the Agency's Persistent Bioaccumulative
  Toxics (PBT) program. Due to their persistence, PCBs present major
  environmental/public health problems, especially when they reach food or water.
  Priorities for PCBs should be determined based on EPA's National Program
  Guidance, Regional priorities, and State priorities. Also for PCBs, EPA
  headquarters encourages the purchase and use of tablet personal computers with
  EPA developed template to automate the PCB inspection process and funding
  for travel related with training in the use of the table and PCB template. States
  with authorized lead-based paint programs will focus compliance monitoring
  activities on individuals and firms which conduct lead abatement with the
  training and certification, and work practice standards requirements. States with
  authorized renovation notice rules will also monitor those
  requirements.Stateswith
  authorized lead-based paint programs will focus compliance monitoring
  activities on individuals and firms which conduct lead abatement with the
  training and certification, and work practice standards requirements. States with
  authorized renovation notice rules will also monitor those requirements. Funding
  priorities in FY 2008, assuming the same funding provided in FY 2007, will be:
  (1) existing programs to ensure their continuance provided they continue to meet
  certain standards, ensuring inspection coverage of regulated community; (2)
  activities leading to waiver status for asbestos programs; (3) training activities as
  necessary for meeting training requirements necessary for obtaining/continuing
  EPA credentials in those programs which require the use of EPA credentials (the
  PCB compliance monitoring programs and asbestos programs in non-waiver
  states); (4) new programs that provide inspection activity where there is an
  identified need; and (5) activities that further the use of new technology for
  conducting field inspections, e.g., use of personal computer Tablets to improve
  the efficiency of inspections, including travel and training. States with
  authorized lead-based paint programs will focus compliance monitoring
  activities on individuals and firms which conduct lead abatement with the
  training and certification, and work practice standards requirements. States with
  authorized renovation notice rules will also monitor those requirements. Funding
  priorities in FY2009: Assuming the same funding provided in FY 2008, will be:
  (1) existing compliance monitoring programs to ensure their continuance
  provided they meet certain standards, specifically ensuring uniform inspection
  coverage of regulated community; (2) activities leading to waiver status for
  asbestos programs; (3) training activities as necessary for meeting training
  requirements necessary for obtaining/continuing EPA credentials in those
  programs which require the use of EPA credentials (the PCB compliance
  monitoring programs and asbestos programs in non-waiver states); (4) new
  programs that provide inspection activity where there is an identified need; and
  (5) activities that further the use of new technology for conducting field
  inspections, e.g., use of personal computer Tablets and PCB template to improve
  the efficiency of inspections. States with authorized lead-based paint programs
  will focus compliance monitoring activities on individuals and firms which
  conduct lead abatement and their continuance with the training and certification,
  and work practice standards requirements.here is an identified need; and (6)
  activities that further the use of new technology for conducting field inspections,
  e.g., use of personal computer Tablets to improve the efficiency of inspections.
  States with authorized lead-based paint programs will focus compliance
  monitoring activities on individuals and firms which conduct lead abatement
  with the training and certification, and work practice standards requirements.
  States with authorized renovation notice rules will also monitor those
  requirements.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds are available for costs specifically incurred by States, tribes, and
  tribal consortiums in developing, enhancing and maintaining comprehensive
  compliance monitoring/enforcement programs under TSCA, including PCBs,
  asbestos, and lead-based paint. Funded activities may include inspector training,
  inspection supplies, and laboratory costs, including personnel and equipment;
  reimbursement for salaries, travel, training, and per diem expenses for
  inspectors, analysts, and program managers; and other functions related to grant
  activities. For those programs where inspections are conducted using EPA
  credentials, prior to conducting inspections under the Grant, the State/Tribe
  must have an authorization agreement and the inspectors must complete the
  minimum inspector training, including health and safety training, and conduct
  inspections according to the September 2004 Guidance for Issuing Federal EPA
  Inspector Credentials to Authorize Employees of State/Tribal Governments to
  Conduct Inspections on Behalf of EPA. They must also have a signed
  authorization agreement with EPA.
Applicant Eligibility:
