  In order to be eligible to apply for STAG TSCA Compliance Monitoring               
  Agreements State Agencies and Indian Tribes should have toxic substance            
  compliance responsibilities and have the authority to enter into these cooperative 
  agreements. For Lead, State Agencies, Indian Tribes, and tribal consortiums that   
  have toxic substance compliance responsibilities, who have the authority to enter  
  into these cooperative agreements, and who have their own lead laws in place       
  are eligible to apply for assistance under STAG TSCA Compliance Monitoring         
  Grants.                                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of     
  Puerto Rico, Indian Tribes and Intertribal Consortia, and any territory or         
  possession of the United States.                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  The applicant must supply evidence of legal authority to conduct toxic substance   
  compliance program activities contemplated under the grant and a workable          
  program officially adopted for the agency. Costs will be determined in             
  accordance with OMB Circular No.A-87 for State and local governments.              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Discussions or informal meetings with Regional program office concerning           
  program preparation are advisable. The standard application forms as furnished     
  by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used          
  for this program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Requests for application forms and completed applications should be submitted      
  to the appropriate EPA Regional Office (see Appendix IV of the Catalog).           
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for    
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA. This program is excluded from         
  coverage under OMB Circular No.A-110.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Each application shall be subjected to administrative coordination to determine    
  adequacy in relation to grant regulations, and to technical and program            
  evaluation to determine merit and relevancy of the project. States will be notified
  of Federal Assistance awards through the Federal Assistance Awards Data            
  System (FAADS). "Applicants may use http://www.grants.gov to electronically        
  apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA."                            
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Applications are due 60 days prior to the beginning of the budget period,          
  normally August 1.                                                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  About 60 days.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                             
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.       
Renewals:                                                                            
  Applicant must reapply.                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Under TSCA Section 28, no grant may exceed 75 percent of the establishment         
  and operation costs of such a program during the period for which the grant is     
  made. Thus, recipients must contribute 25% of the total costs for activities       
  conducted under Section 28 of TSCA (i.e., the PCB and Asbestos grants). There      
  are no cost-sharing or matching fund requirements for lead-based paint             
  enforcement grants under Section 404(g). There is no statutory formula aside       
  from the required 25 percent contribution of the States for the PCB and asbestos   
  grants.                                                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Cooperative Agreements are normally funded for a 12-month period. Payments         
  will be on an advance letter of credit or reimbursement basis; recipients must     
  request the initial advance payment on the form SF 270, Request for Advance or     
  Reimbursement.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                             
  As required in the Annual Program Guidance for inclusion in the grant award,       
  grantees must submit mid-year and year-end evaluations. For inspections            
  conducted using credentials issued by EPA to the state or tribal employee, the     
  inspection report must be submitted to the regional office for review pursuant to  
  the authorization agreements.                                                      
Audits:                                                                              
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the     
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,     
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.       
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each        
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,        
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit                
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in      
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting        
  records and to substantiate charges to each cooperative agreement, must be kept    
  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records       


                                                                                11-08
  must be maintained for 3 years from the date of the submission of the annual
  financial status report or longer if questions still remain, such as those raised as
  a result of audit.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $5,710,300; FY 08 $5,019,000; and FY 09 $5,099,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $18,900 to $236,000/year; $90,000/year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Twenty-three Asbestos, nine PCB, and thirty six Lead State cooperative
  agreements were awarded in FY 07 and FY 08. A similar number are expected to
  be awarded in FY 09. Agencies participating in the Federal enforcement
  cooperative agreement program receive funds to support and enhance toxic
  substance compliance monitoring/enforcement activities. Two additional states,
  Missouri and North Dakota, purchased and will use PC Tablets and the PCB
  Template to conduct PCB inspections. Typical program activities for asbestos
  include compliance inspections at facilities regulated under TSCA, and initiation
  of appropriate enforcement action waiver states or referral to EPA for case
  review and appropriate enforcement action when violations are detected. Based
  on regional data, 1043 compliance monitoring inspections were conducted in FY
  07 and 1008 compliance monitoring inspections will be conducted by the end of
  FY 08 (per Regional and state commitments). These numbers include the non-
  waiver states. Typical program activities for PCB include compliance
  inspections at facilities regulated under TSCA and initiation of appropriate
  enforcement action or referral to EPA for case review and appropriate
  enforcement action when violations are detected. Based on regional data, 302
  compliance monitoring inspections were conducted in FY 07, 351 compliance
  monitoring inspections will be conducted by the end of FY 08, and a similar
  number of inspections will be conducted in FY 09 if funding levels are the same.
  Typical program activities for Lead include compliance inspections at facilities
  regulated under TSCA and, initiation of appropriate enforcement action waiver
  states or referral to EPA for case review and appropriate enforcement action
  when violations are detected. Based on the data inputted into the National
  Compliance Data Base (NCDB) system and regional data, 171 compliance
  monitoring inspections were conducted in FY 07 and a similar number of
  compliance monitoring inspections is anticipated in FY 08.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  EPA Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements to State and Local Governments (40 CFR Part 31); Environmental
  Protection Agency, State and Local Assistance (40 CFR Part 35 Subpart A),
  October 12, 1982; "EPA Assistance Administration Manual," available from the
  National Technical Information Service, Springfield, VA 22161 on a
  subscription basis, Order No.: NTIS UB/031.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  For PCB and asbestos program information: Phyllis Flaherty, Chief, National
  Compliance Monitoring Policy Branch, Compliance Assessment and Media
  Programs Division, Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance, (2223A),
  U.S. EPA, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. N.W., Washington, DC 20460; Telephone:
  (202) 564-4131; Fax: (202)-564-0050; E-mail: Flaherty.Phyllis@epa.gov. For
  Lead-based paint program information: John Mason, Sector Analysis and
  Implementation Branch, Compliance Assistance and Sector Programs Division,
  Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance (2224A), EPA, 1200
  Pennsylvania Ave. N.W., Washington, DC 20460; Telephone: (202) 564-7037;
  Fax: (202) 564-0009; E-mail: Mason.John@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/compliance/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  State agencies participating in the Federal/State enforcement cooperative
  agreement program receive funds to support and enhance compliance
  monitoring (inspection) and enforcement activities, as appropriate for the
  specific program. Examples of program activities that may be funded include
  development of State enabling legislation for enforcement,
  inspections/investigations to evaluate compliance, follow-up inspections,
  initiation of appropriate enforcement action when violations are detected,
  equipment for inspections, development of compliance monitoring
  strategies/targeting approaches, development of software or e-forms capable of
  automating inspection data collection activities in the field, and
  training/workshops. In addition, EPA is encouraging states/tribes to purchase
  Personal Portable Computers, i.e., Tablet PCs, that are compatible for use with
  PCB inspection software developed by EPA for conducting inspections and
  writing inspection reports. The National Compliance Monitoring Branch
  (NCMPB) developed a PCB Inspection Template to make inspections more
  efficient and consistent by allowing the inspector to use handwriting recognition
  software to collect data electronically. The software prints EPA notification
  forms; collects inspection data for opening and closing conferences, records
                                                                                   1005
