  reviews, and walkthroughs; makes available necessary reference materials; and       
  assists in inspection report writing. For Template software and training in the     
  use of the Tablet PCs and PCB Template, state/tribes may request the PCB            
  software and training on its use through their regional project officer. It is      
  anticipated software for asbestos inspections will be available in the near future. 
  Once developed, states are encouraged to purchase Tablet PCs compatible with        
  the software developed and to use the Tablets to conduct the inspection and         
  prepare the inspection report.                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Each application will be reviewed by the Environmental Protection Agency            
  according to criteria including the following: (1) Need: The need for the           
  development, improvement, and/or maintenance of a comprehensive compliance          
  monitoring/enforcement program within the State; (2) Level of Activity: The         
  amount of regulated chemicals and facilities, and the potential risk to human       
  health and the environment; (3) Long-Term Impact: The potential of the              
  cooperative agreement to have a long-term beneficial impact on human health         
  and the environment resulting from the compliance program; and (4)                  
  Effectiveness of program: The past level and effectiveness of the State regulatory  
  program, number of inspections conducted by state and number of trained             
  inspectors that have completed the minimum training set forth in the September      
  30, 2004 "Guidance for Issuing Federal EPA Inspector Credentials to Authorize       
  Employees of State/Tribal Governments to Conduct Inspections on Behalf of           
  EPA."                                                                               
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
66.707 TSCA TITLE IV STATE LEAD GRANTS                                                
CERTIFICATION OF LEAD-BASED PAINT                                                     
PROFESSIONALS                                                                         
                                                                                      
   (State Lead Certification Grants)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                      
  OFFICE OF PREVENTION, PESTICIDES AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES,

                                                                                      
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  Toxic Substances Control Act, as amended, Section 404(g).

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

  The goal of EPA's lead-based paint program is to eliminate childhood lead           
  poisoning by 2010. The program is comprised of four strategies designed to          
  achieve the following goals: (1) Establish standards to define where lead hazards   
  are present in paint, dust and soil; (2) Give the public information about lead     
                                                                                      
  hazards and steps to protect themselves; (3) Ensure that information about

                                                                                      
  known lead-based paint hazards is disclosed to individuals buying or renting

                                                                                      
  pre-1978 housing, and that owners and occupants of pre-1978 housing are

                                                                                      
  provided information on lead-based paint hazards before renovation activities       
  take place; (4) Establish lead-safe work practice standards and require lead-       
  based paint professionals to be trained and certified. The objective of this grant  
  program is to assist States, Tribes, and Territories in developing and carrying out 
  authorized programs that: (a) certify contractors engaged in lead-based paint       
  activities and accredit lead-based paint activities training programs; (b) certify  
  contractors engaged in renovation, repair and painting activities that disturb

                                                                                      
  painted surfaces in most target housing; and/or(c) require distribution of lead-    
  hazard information prior to renovation (pre-renovation education program.           
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: The priority for FY 2008 is to continue to     
  provide assistance to authorized State, Tribal and Territorial lead-based paint     
  activities training and certification programs and pre-renovation education         
  programs. If appropriate, the Agency will use grant funding to provide assistance   
  to a State, Tribal or Territorial program that is looking to develop an authorized  
  Renovation, Repair and Painting Program. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 09:         
  The priority for FY 09 is to continue to provide assistance to authorized State,    
  Tribal and Territorial lead-based paint activities training and certification       
  programs and pre-renovation education programs. If appropriate, the Agency          
  will use grant funding to provide assistance to a State, Tribal or Territorial      
  program that is looking to develop an authorized Renovation, Repair and             
  Painting Program.                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Assistance may be available for activities which relate to authorization under      
  TSCA Title IV. Supported activities must contribute or lead to the attainment or    
  maintenance of authorization pursuant to TSCA Title IV. Funds cannot be used        
  for general program activities not related to the attainment or maintenance of      
  authorized programs.                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin       
  Islands, Guam, the Canal Zone, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands,        
  and any other territory or possession of the United States may receive assistance   
  under Section 404(g) of TSCA. Federally recognized Indian governing bodies          
  are also eligible to apply for and receive assistance. For certain competitive      
  funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit             


1006                                                                            11-08

  eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with
  the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State governments, Federally Recognized Indian governing bodies, U.S.
  Territories and possessions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Discussions or informal meetings with the appropriate EPA Regional Office
  concerning program preparation are advisable. The standard application form as
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must
  be used for this program. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with
  respect to competitive funding opportunities under this program description,
  EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal
  assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive
  announcement. For additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as
  "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Requests for application forms and completed applications should be submitted
  to the appropriate EPA Regional Office. The following forms and certifications
  must be included in all final grant applications: Standard Form 424 (Application
  for Federal Assistance); Standard Form 424A (Budget Information - Non-
  Construction Programs); Standard Form 424B (Assurances -- Non-Construction
  Programs); Certification Regarding Lobbying and SF LLL, if applicable;
  Certification Regarding Debarment and Suspension; EPA Form 4700-4
  (Compliance Review Report Form); and Quality Assurance Narrative Statement,
  if applicable. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Contact the appropriate EPA Regional Office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days after deadline for application submission.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Applicant must reapply for grant funding each fiscal year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cooperative agreements are normally funded for a 12-month period. Payments
  will be on an advance letter of credit or reimbursement basis.
Reports:
  As requested in the annual program guidance for inclusion in the award; usually
  quarterly with mid-year and year-end evaluations.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate charges to cooperative agreements, must be kept
  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA accounts. All records must be
  maintained for 3 years from the date of the submission of the annual financial
  status report, or longer if questions still remain, such as those raised as a result
  of audit.
Account Identification:
