  68-0108-0-1-304.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $22,472,953; FY 08 $13,564,000, and FY 09 est. $13,564,000.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $16,000 to $350,000; average of $200,000.                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  As of November 2007 39 States, 3 Tribes, Puerto Rico, and DC have received         
  EPA approval to administer a lead-based paint activities training and              
  certification program and 2 States have received authorization to administer and   
  enforce a pre-renovation education program. Award data for FY 2008 is not          
  available at this time.                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  EPA Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative                 
  Agreements to State and Local Governments (40 CFR Part 31); Environmental          
  Protection Agency. "EPA Assistance Administration Manual," available from          
  the National Technical Information Service, Springfield, VA 22161 on a             
  subscription basis; Order No. NTIS UB/031.                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Contact the Regional Lead Contact Person in the appropriate EPA regional           
  office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  For program information: Michelle Price, National Program Chemicals Division       
  (7404T), Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics, Environmental Protection       
  Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave. N.W., Washington, DC 20460. Telephone:              
  (202) 566-0744; Fax: (202) 566-0471; E-mail: price.michelle@epa.gov.               
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/lead/.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                     
  Over the past twelve years, EPA has provided financial assistance to the States,

                                                                                     
  Territories and Indian Tribes aimed at the development, implementation and

                                                                                     
  enforcement of approved programs under the final EPA lead-based paint

                                                                                     
  activities training and certification rule (40 CFR Part 745, Subpart L). The

                                                                                     
  following is a list of previously funded activities: (a) core lead-based paint

                                                                                     
  activities and enforcement capacity development; (b) developing the appropriate

                                                                                     
  infrastructure to administer and enforce a lead-based paint activities program

                                                                                     
  successfully; (c) overseeing the conduct of contractors engaged in lead-based

                                                                                     
  paint activities; (d) overseeing and controlling training program activities; (e)

                                                                                     
  ensuring compliance with requirements for post-abatement clearance sampling;

                                                                                     
  (f) monitoring compliance with the work practice standards of regulations for

                                                                                     
  the conduct of abatement; (g) implementing lead-based paint compliance

                                                                                     
  assistance; (h) implementing the lead-based paint activities sampling techniques;  
  and (i) implementing lead-based paint activities tracking tips and complaints      
  efforts.                                                                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The evaluation and selection for competitive awards under this CFDA                
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                     
                                                                                     
66.708 POLLUTION PREVENTION GRANTS PROGRAM                                           
                                                                                     
   (P2 Grant Program)

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                     
  OFFICE OF PREVENTION, PESTICIDES AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES,

                                                                                     
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:

  Pollution Prevention Act of 1990, Section 6605, Public Law 101-508.                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Pollution Prevention (P2) Grant Program and the Pollution Prevention           
  Information Network (PPIN) Grant Program are supported by the Pollution            
  Prevention Act of 1990 to provide pollution prevention technical assistance to     
  businesses. Under these grant programs, EPA supports projects that utilize         
  pollution prevention techniques to reduce and/or eliminate pollution from air,     
  water and/or land. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: To help business and       
  industry incorporate pollution prevention techniques into their day-to-day         
  business operations as a way to reduce and/or eliminate harmful pollutants that    
  may enter the air, water or land. For purposes of these grant programs, pollution  
  prevention refers to practices that reduce or eliminate the creation of pollutants 
  through increased efficiency in the use of raw materials, energy, water or other   
  resources, and/or protection of natural resources through conservation. EPA        
  achieves these priorities by awarding grants and cooperative agreements to         
  States, Federally-recognized Tribes, Inter-Tribal Consortia's and colleges and     
  universities.                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds awarded under the P2 and PPIN Grant Programs support innovative              
  activities that promote preventive approaches to environmental performance and     
  address the transfer of potentially harmful pollutants across all environmental    
                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  media: air, land, and water. These two grant programs support the
  establishment and expansion of State and Tribal pollution prevention programs
  and address various sectors of concern such as industrial toxics, agriculture,
  energy, transportation, etc. Specifically, the P2 Grant Program is intended to
  build and support State and Tribal pollution prevention approaches and
  methodologies. The P2 Grant Program is focused on institutionalizing
  multimedia pollution prevention as an environmental management priority,
  establishing prevention goals, providing direct technical assistance to
  businesses, conducting outreach, and collecting and analyzing data. Under the
  PPIN Grant Program, EPA supports projects that help to coordinate work among
  technical assistance providers in order to minimize duplication of effort in
  information collection and synthesis, dissemination and training for the
  promotion of pollution prevention technologies. The P2 and PPIN grant
  programs will not support projects which focus on recycling, waste removal or
  any activity which alters the physical, chemical, or biological characteristics or
  the volume of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant through a
  process or activity which is not integral to and necessary for the production of a
  product or essential to providing a service. For more information, refer to PPA
  Section 6603 and 40 CFR Sections 35.343 and 35.662.
Applicant Eligibility:
  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition
  Policy. In accordance with the Pollution Prevention Act of 1990, eligible
  applicants for purposes of funding under these grant programs include the 50
  States, the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of
  Puerto Rico, and territory or possession of the United States, any agency or
  instrumentality of a State including State universities, and all Federally
  recognized-tribes. For convenience, the term "State" in this notice refers to all
  eligible applicants. Local governments, private universities, private nonprofit
  entities, private businesses, and individuals are not eligible.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State applicants are encouraged to establish partnerships with business and other
  environmental assistance providers to deliver seamless pollution prevention
  assistance. The most successful applications will be those that make the most
  efficient use of government funding. In many cases, this has been accomplished
  through partnerships. As a result, those who are eligible can provide pollution
  prevention benefits to the following entities: any State, interstate, and local
  agency/organization/university, Federally Recognized Indian Tribes, public
  nonprofit organizations/institutions, profit organizations, businesses, private
  organizations, and quasi public nonprofit organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  In cases where applicants are not clear, by given name, the applicant must
  provide proof that the applicant is indeed a State or interstate
  agency/organization.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. If the
  applicant does not know who their Single Point of Contact is, they may call the
  appropriate EPA regional coordinator listed in the Information Contacts section,
  or call the EPA Headquarters Grant Policy Information and Training Branch at
  202-564-5325. Federally-recognized Tribal governments are not required to
  comply with this procedure.
Application Procedure:
  Requests for information should be made to EPA Headquarters or the
  appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in the Appendix of the Catalog. Under
  the P2 grants program, completed applications must be submitted to the
  appropriate Regional Pollution Prevention Program office in order to be
  considered for an award. Under the PPIN grants program, completed
  applications must be submitted to EPA Headquarters in order to be considered
  for an award. Applications must meet the requirements of the grant regulations
  and will be reviewed to determine relevancy of the proposed project. Applicants
  may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  P2 Grant program - grant proposals were due to the applicable regional office on
  April 16, 2008. PPIN Grant program - grant proposals were due to headquarters
                                                                                 1007
