66.709 MULTI-MEDIA CAPACITY BUILDING GRANTS                                         
FOR STATES AND TRIBES                                                               
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF ENFORCEMENT AND COMPLIANCE ASSURANCE,                                   
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Clean Water Act, Section 104; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide     
  Act, Section 20; Clean Air Act, Section 103; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section    
  8001; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442; Toxic Substances Control Act,        
  Section 10; Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act, Section 203;         
  National Environmental Policy Act, Section 102(2)(F) (for international awards;   
  Indian Environmental General Assistance Program Act.                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  The general objectives of this program are to build and improve the capacity of   
  States, multijurisdictional State organizations and federally recognized tribes by
  providing assistance agreements to foster environmental enforcement and           
  compliance assurance activities and to improve compliance with environmental      
  laws. Such capacity building efforts may include economic, social science,        
  statistical research, development, studies, surveys, demonstrations,              
  investigations, public education, training and fellowships to the extent          
  authorized under the Acts listed above. These funds cannot be used for            
  implementation of compliance monitoring and enforcement programs. Funding         
  Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: The Office of Compliance (OC), within EPA's          
  Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance (OECA) will be soliciting          
  proposals and partial grant applications for states and tribes to strengthen their
  ability to address environmental and public health threats, while furthering the  
  art and science of environmental compliance. For FY 2008, EPA is soliciting       
  pre-proposals for the following focus areas: (1) Permit Compliance System         
  (PCS) Modernization and ICIS-NPDES, (2) Tribal Compliance Assurance               
  Training and Workshops, (3) Air Facility System (AFS), (4) Development of a       
  State-to-State New Source Review and Prevention of Significant Deterioration      
  (NSR/PSD) Mentoring Program and Permit and Enforcement Training Support,          
  (5) State Environmental Compliance and Enforcement Training, and (6)              
  Demonstration of Better Use of Technology in Compliance Monitoring                
  Activities. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: The Office of Compliance (OC),   
  within EPA's Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance (OECA) will be        
  soliciting proposals and partial grant applications for states and tribes to      
  strengthen their ability to address environmental and public health threats, while
  furthering the art and science of environmental compliance. In previous years,    
  areas of emphasis have been: (1) tribal and state inspection training, (2) program
  planning and preformance measurement, (3) outcome measurement, (4)public          
  access, (5)data management, and (6)permit compliance system modernization.        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  The Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance identifies special focus       
  areas each funding cycle (annually). Work under grants and agreements must        
  address those focus areas. Previous years have included calls for proposals for   
  innovative enforcement and compliance assurance projects including training,      
  performance measurement, data quality, and public access to information.          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  State agencies, U.S. territories, the District of Columbia, federally recognized  
  Indian Tribes and Intertribal Consortia, and multi-jurisdictional State           
  organizations and associations of environmental regulatory professionals, with    
  enforcement and compliance assurance responsibilities or responsibilities that    
  support enforcement and compliance assurance including but not limited to data    
  management or research. In addition, public universities and colleges with        
  expertise in compliance assurance and enforcement issues, including compliance    
  assistance and training to tribal environmental professionals. For certain        
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency         
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants     
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  State agencies, U.S. territories, the District of Columbia, federally recognized  
  tribes, and local governments.                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  The Office of Enforcement and Compliance Assurance typically requests             
  proposals and partial grant applications (424 and 424A) from applicants           
  detailing the substantive information asked for in the solicitation. Initial      
  decisions are made based on headquarters and regional review of the proposals.    
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive     
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify  
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be   
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional           
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see    
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.      
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should        


                                                                               11-08
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal Agency and required
  by the OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. Requests for
  application forms and completed applications should be submitted to the
  appropriate EPA Regional Office (See Appendix IV of the Catalog). Applicants
  may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  Each application shall be subjected to administrative coordination to determine
  adequacy in relation to grant regulations, and to technical and program
  evaluation to determine merit and relevancy of the project. For competitive
  awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals, and/or
  submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the
  competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance with
  EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements. EPA reserves the
  right to partially fund proposals/applications by funding discrete activities,
  portions, or phases of proposed projects. If EPA decides to partially fund a
  proposal/application, it will do so in a manner that does not prejudice any
  applicants or affect the basis upon which the proposal/application, or portion
  thereof, was evaluated and selected for award, and that maintains the integrity of
  the competition and selection process.
Deadlines:
  The solicitation (announcement of availability of funds) provides the complete
  schedule for application due dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 90 days from the date of submission of the final proposal.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is normally provided in one lump sum to the applicant for projects
  spanning 2 to 3 years. There is no restriction on the time permitted to spend the
  money awarded, although it is recommended that the money be spent within 5
  years of receipt.
Reports:
  Semi-annual reports must be submitted to the Project Officer for the duration of
  the project period. Final reports must be submitted upon completion of the
  project. Final reports must contain interim outcomes and/or final outcomes
  achieved as a result of the funding. A format for these reports is usually
  provided in the solicitation.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate charges to each cooperative agreement must be kept
  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records
  must be maintained for 3 years from the date of the submission of the annual
  financial status report or longer if questions still remain, such as those raised as
  a result of audit.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,360,900; FY 08 $1,209,000 and FY 09 $1,828,000. The actual
  obligations towards assistance agreements for a given fiscal year may be higher
  due to carryover from previous fiscal years.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The range for the smallest and largest awards in the past fiscal year is $45,000 to
  $250,000. The average amount of financial assistance over the past and current
  fiscal years is $156,000.
                                                                                   1009
