PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  The solicitation in fiscal year 2007 resulted in 8 projects being selected for        
  funding from a total of 17 proposals (47%). The FY2008 solicitation is currently      
  open therefore no selections or awards have been made yet. Previous years have        
  included calls for proposals for innovative enforcement and compliance                
  assurance capacity building projects including inspector training, performance        
  measurement, data quality, public access to information, data management, and         
  performance measurement/program planning. The Office of Enforcement and               
  Compliance Assurance has posted the previous and current grant project results        
  and outcomes on their OECA website at                                                 
  http://www.epa.gov/compliance/state/grants/stag/index.html.                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  EPA Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative                    
  Agreements to and Local Governments (40 CFR Part 35 Subpart A), October               
  12,1982.                                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  See EPA Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Ginger Gotliffe, (202) 564-7072, Fax: (202) 564-0034. The Office of                   
  Compliance, Environmental Protection Agency, Ariel Rios Bldg., 1200                   
  Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20460. E-mail:                                
  gotliffe.ginger@epa.gov.                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.epa.gov/compliance/state/grants/stag/index.html.                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  (1)Feasibility study on migration of state/tribal data from the legacy Permit         
  Compliance System (PCS) system to the new modernized Integrated Compliance            
  Information System-National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System, (ICIS-            
  NPDES) (e.g., conversion of General Permit data currently in legacy PCS to            
  correspond with the General Permit data requirements of the modernized                
  system). (2)Improved tribal access to on-site compliance assistance and               
  compliance monitoring services and/or improved tribal capacity for compliance         
  monitoring and enforcement. (3) Establish a training program to support the           
  creation of an inspection force for regulated underground storage tank facilities     
  (UST), and design and implement a continuing education module for UST                 
  inspectors. (4)Development of a sector-specific model for outcome-based               
  performance measures. (5) Provide technical assistance, including training, to        
  build capacity to provide compliance assistance to Municipal Separate Storm           
  Sewer Systems (MS4) program. Development of MS4 demonstration projects                
  that show how states will build capacity to operate and maintain a high quality       
  MS4 program.                                                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA          
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                        
                                                                                        
66.714 PESTICIDE ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP                                              
                                                                                        
REGIONAL GRANTS

                                                                                        
   (PESP Regional Grants)                                                               
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  OFFICE OF PREVENTION, PESTICIDES AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES,                                
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Section 20, Research and         
  Monitoring, as amended.                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To provide risk reduction from the use of pesticides in agricultural and non-         
  agricultural settings in the United States. The objective is to provide risk          
  reduction from the use of pesticides in agricultural and non-agricultural settings    
  in the United States. This program is competed and the grants are awarded by          
  EPA's Regional grant offices. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: The                
  Pesticide Environmental Stewardship Program (PESP) Regional Grants -                  
  projects to provide risk reduction from the use of pesticides in agricultural and     
  non-agricultural settings in the U.S. Types of activities: pesticide risk reduction,  
  pesticide pollution prevention, Integrated Pest Management (IPM)                      
  implementation, and children's health issues related to pesticides.                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Grants may be used to fund projects that further the goals of the Pesticide           
  Environmental Stewardship Program (PESP). The type of projects that will be           
  considered include research, monitoring, demonstration, and related activities.       
  Projects must address the risk reduction goals of PESP, pesticide pollution           
  prevention or Integrated Pest Management (IPM), or children's health issues           
  related to pesticides. There are no discretionary funds available to fund projects.   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the        


1010                                                                              11-08

  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition
  Policy. Eligible applicants include the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the
  U.S. Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any Territory or
  Possession of the United States, any agency or instrumentality of a State
  including State Universities, and all Federally recognized Native American
  Tribes. Local governments, private universities, private nonprofit entities,
  private businesses, and individuals are not eligible. The organizations excluded
  from applying directly are encouraged to work with eligible applicants in
  developing proposals that include them as participants in the projects.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any State, U.S. Territory/Possession, Native American Organization, or other
  entities working in conjunction with these eligible applicants.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Application should present a well thought out work plan with established
  infrastructure to execute the work plan. Key officials should have and document
  appropriate work experience or education to effectively carry out the proposed
  work plan or research. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Grants are awarded on the basis of merit. The call for proposals is announced on
  the Office of Pesticide Programs' website and by other established mechanisms
  early in the fiscal year. The proposal format is specified in the call. Proposals not
  using the published format will not be considered. National criteria are
  established in the call and the Regional Offices may add additional criteria that
  may tailor the project proposals to specific environmental projects within the
  Region. Once the grant process is announced nationally, interested applicants
  are urged to contact the appropriate EPA Regional Office for detailed
  instructions. Proposals are submitted to an EPA Regional Office. All proposals
  received are rated using the published criteria and compete for funding against
  all acceptable proposals received. Consultation or assistance in filling out a
  project proposal is available from any of the EPA Regional Offices either by
  phone, mail, fax or electronic mail. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with
  respect to competitive funding opportunities under this program description,
  EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal
  assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive
  announcement. For additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as
  "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Application Procedure:
  Successful applicants will be notified and invited to complete and sign a
  Standard Form 424, (an application form) which will be supplied upon
  notification. Questions about this form will be answered by the Regional
  representative who contacts the applicant. Applicants may be able to use
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Varies from year to year. The call for proposals is published during the first or
  second quarter of the fiscal year and project proposals are due 60 days after
  publication (generally late in the second quarter). Contact your regional office
  for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 60 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for a project period not to exceed 2 years. Funds are released
  by a letter of credit.
Reports:
  Organizations that are awarded grant/cooperative agreement funds will be
  required to submit at least annual progress reports, during the life of the project,
  to the EPA Project Officer. Each report will summarize funds expended, tasks
  accomplished, and results achieved to date. A summary final report will also be
  required at the end of the project period. This final report should include a
  discussion of the prospects of continuation, further development of the effort,
  project evaluation and future direction.
