Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Projects are expected to be completed within 2 years from award of grant.            
  Assistance is awarded in lump sum amounts.                                           
Reports:                                                                               
  Quarterly reports are due at the end of each quarter. A financial status report is   
  due at the end of the grant period.                                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the       
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,       
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.         
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each          
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,          
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                 
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in       
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting          
  records and to substantiate charges to cooperative agreements, must be kept          
  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA accounts. All records must be       
  maintained for 3 years from the date of the submission of the annual financial       
  status report, or longer if questions still remain, such as those raised as a result 
  of audit.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  68-0108-0-1-304.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $970,668; FY 08 est $500,000; and FY 09 est $500,000.                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  The overall range for outreach awards in FY 07 was between $40,837 and               
  $79,896.64. The average outreach award was $70,060.73 in FY 07. The overall          
  range for baseline assessment awards in FY 07 was between $50,000 and                
  $50,000.15. The average baseline assessment award in FY 07 was $50,000.03.           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In Fiscal Year 2007, 40 grants were received and 11 grants were awarded. In

                                                                                       
  Fiscal Year 2008 and 2009, 30 grants are anticipated to be received and 8 grants     
  are estimated to be awarded. Anticipated accomplishments include testing             
  Native American children and homes for lead and development and/or                   
  distribution of lead awareness materials to the Native American communities.         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  EPA Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative                   
  Agreements to State and Local Governments (40 CFR part 31); Environmental            
  Protection Agency. "EPA Assistance Administration Manual," available from            
  the National Technical Information Service (NTIS), Springfield, VA 22161 on a        
  subscription basis; Order No. NTIS UB/031.                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See EPA Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  For general information: Darlene Watford, National Program Chemicals

                                                                                       
  Division, Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics (7404T), Environmental

                                                                                       
  Protection Agency, Ariel Rios Bldg., 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W.,

                                                                                       
  Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 566-0516; Fax: (202) 566-0469; E-

                                                                                       
  mail: watford.darlene@epa.gov.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:

                                                                                       
  http://www.epa.gov/lead/.

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  None.

EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Examples of funded projects include the development of a customized lead             
  poisoning prevention brochure and poster for Native Americans, development of        
  a series of lead poisoning prevention coloring books sheets with Native              
  American themes, setting up a blood-lead testing booth during a Little League        
  baseball sign-up session, arranging in-home lead inspections, and blood-lead         
  testing at a Head Start facility.                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA         
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                       
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
66.716 RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, MONITORING,                                              
PUBLIC EDUCATION, TRAINING, DEMONSTRATIONS,                                            
AND STUDIES                                                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF PREVENTION, PESTICIDES AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES,                               
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                      


1012                                                                             11-08

AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act (FIFRA), Section 20; Toxic
  Substances Control Act, Section 10, as supplemented by Public Law 106-74;
  Public Law 105-174, which granted EPA permanent authority to use STAG
  funds to award grants (other than PPGs) to entities eligible to receive grants
  under the Agency's organic statutes; and NEPA Section 102(2)(F).
OBJECTIVES:
  Grants are awarded to support Research, Development, Monitoring, Public
  Education, Training, Demonstrations, and Studies assistance relating to the
  protection of public health and the environment from pesticides and potential
  risk from toxic chemicals. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Topics include,
  but are not limited to, promotion of pollution prevention and the public's right to
  know about chemical risks, evaluation of pesticides and chemicals to safeguard
  all Americans, including children and other vulnerable members of the
  population, as well as, our most threatened species and ecosystems from
  environmental harm and emerging issues like biotechnology, endocrine
  disruptors and lead poisoning prevention. Projects for toxic chemical risk
  reduction include existing chemical data development and dissemination; risk
  assessment, peer consultation, and data utilization, training in use of EPA
  chemical risk screening tool; promotion and training in development use of safer
  chemicals, processes and technologies; reduction in use of toxic chemicals;
  targeted education and outreach aimed at reducing childhood lead poisoning.
  OPP: projects for safer use of pesticides, including worker protection,
  certification and training of pesticide applicators, protection of endangered
  species, tribal pesticide programs, integrated pest management; environmental
  stewardship, Pesticide Registration Renewal Act (PRIA 2) Partnership grants;
  and Pesticide Regulatory Education Program (PREP). Types of activities:
  developed and implemented programs to reduce pesticide risks; developed
  pesticide drift mitigation education program; analysis and development of pilot
  pesticide safety programs and materials; Water Quality and Pesticide
  Management Planning for Federal Recognized Tribes; Tribal Pesticide Program
  Council (TPPC); national Train-the-Trainer program to educate farmworkers on
  how to reduce risks from pesticides; develop and distribute innovative materials
  for integrating the National pesticide Competency for Medical & Nursing
  Education into curricular of medical and nursing programs; continue the
  National Pesticide Information Center (NPIC); and continue the National
  Pesticide Medical Monitoring Program (NPMMP) - provide clinical toxicology
  information and laboratory service; PRIA partnership grants; and PREP
  education program for states and tribes.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable
  direct costs incident to approved scopes of work plus allowable indirect costs, in
  accordance with established EPA policies and regulations. Funding awarded for
  research does not include research within the purview of EPA's Office of
  Research and Development.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States, U.S. territories or
  possession, federally recognized Indian tribal governments and Native American
  Organizations, public and private universities and colleges, hospitals,
  laboratories, other public or private nonprofit institutions, local governments,
  and individuals and international entities. For profit organizations are not
  eligible. Non-profit organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal
  Revenue Code that engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3 of the
  Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not eligible to apply. EPA may also limit
  eligibility for certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA to a
  subset of eligible applicants and/or to tribes, Alaska native villages, and
  intertribal consortia located in the Region where a project is going to be
  performed. For Tribal funding opportunities to be funded with the State and
  Tribal Grant (STAG) appropriation, eligibility will be limited to Tribes, Alaska
  native villages, and intertribal consortia to support the Office of Pesticide
  Programs Tribal Program. For certain competitive funding opportunities under
  this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number
  or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance
  Agreement Competition Policy. Also, for certain competitive opportunities
  offices may limit eligibility to tribes in a region.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, federally
  recognized Indian tribal governments and Native American Organizations,
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public and private
  nonprofit institutions, general public, and other Non-Governmental
  Organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87, 2 CFR
  Part 225 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No.
  A-21, 2 CFR Part 220 for educational institutions, and OMB Circular No. A-
  122, 2 CFR Part 230 for nonprofit institutions. Applicants may be requested to
  demonstrate that they have appropriate background, academic training,
  experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects. EPA may
