  Virgin Islands seeking impartial information about pesticides; Provide clinical     
  toxicology information and laboratory services regarding pesticides; Pesticide      
  Regulatory Education Program (PREP) Education Program for States and                
  Tribes; and Pesticide Registration Renewal Act (PRIA 2) Partnership Grants.         
  The Office of Pollution Prevention and Toxics funded the following: Increased       
  scientific and technical support for Children's Environmental Health Network;       
  researched and developed methods of microbial identification; education             
  materials development and outreach for green engineering in chemical                
  curriculum; development of computational methods for visualization of               
  taxonomic relationships; and public outreach and education for green chemistry      
  and the evaluation of chemicals to safeguard vulnerable populations.                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA        
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
66.717 SOURCE REDUCTION ASSISTANCE

                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF PREVENTION, PESTICIDES AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES,                              
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Clean Air Act, Section 103 (b), as amended; Clean Water Act, Section 104 (b)        
  (3), as amended; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Section       
  20, as amended; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442 (b) (3) (c), as amended;      
  Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001(a), as amended; Toxic Substances             
  Control Act, Section 10, as amended; Executive Order 13148 - Greening the           
  Government Through Leadership in Environmental Management, April 21,                
  2000; Executive Order 13101- Greening the Government Through Waste                  
  Prevention, Recycling, and Federal Acquisition, September 14, 1998; and             
  Executive Order 12873 Federal Acquisition, Recycling and Waste Prevention,          
  October 20, 1993.                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The goal of the Source Reduction Assistance (SRA) Grant Program is to provide       
  grants that will support pollution prevention/source reduction and/or resource      
  conservation activities. For purposes of this grant program, pollution prevention   
  is defined as any practice which reduces or eliminates the creation of pollutants   
  through: increased efficiency in the use of raw materials, energy, water, or other  
  resources, or protection of natural resources by conservation activities. EPA is    
  interested in funding projects which assist in reducing hazardous substances,       
  pollutants, or contaminants entering waste streams or otherwise released into the   
  environment (including fugitive emissions) prior to recycling, treatment, or        
  disposal. Grant activities may involve, but are not limited to the following:       
  equipment or technology modifications, process or procedure modifications,          
  reformulation or redesign of products, substitution of raw materials, and           
  improvements in housekeeping, maintenance, training, or inventory control.          
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: To support source reduction, pollution         
  prevention and resource conservation activities that comply with the statutory      
  authorities of the Clean Air Act, Section 103(b), as amended; Clean Water Act,      
  Section 104(b)(3), as amended; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide      
  Act, Section 20, as amended; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442 (a)(1) and       
  (c), as amended; Solid Waste Disposal Act, Section 8001(a), as amended; and         
  Toxic Substances Control Act, Section 10, as amended. Please Note: Projects         
  must consist of activities within the statutory terms of these EPA grant            
  authorities. The statutes authorize grants for the following activities: "research, 
  investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations of new or innovative          
  techniques, surveys and studies." These activities relate generally to the          
  gathering or transferring of information or advancing awareness. Applicants         
  should emphasize in their grant proposal's this "learning" concept, as opposed to   
  "fixing" an environmental problem using a well-established method. For              
  example, a proposal to install a more energy efficient heating system in the        
  applicant's facility in order to conserve energy, would not, in itself fall within  
  research, studies, demonstrations, etc. All activities in the proposal must be      
  eligible under one or more of the statutory authorities.erring of information or    
  advancing awareness. Applicants should emphasize in their grant proposal's this     
  "learning" concept, as opposed to "fixing" an environmental problem using a         
  well-established method. For example, a proposal to install a more energy           
  efficient heating system in the applicant's facility in order to conserve energy,   
  would not, in itself fall within research, studies, demonstrations, etc. All        
  activities in the proposal must be eligible under one or more of the statutory      
  authorities. The term pollution prevention/source reduction, for purposes of the    
  SRA grant program, refers to any practice that reduces the amount of any            
  hazardous substance, pollutant, or contaminant entering any waste stream or         
  otherwise released into the environment (including fugitive emissions) prior to     
  recycling, treatment, or disposal; and reduces the hazards to public health and     
  the environment associated with the release of such substances, pollutants, or      
  contaminants. The term "resource conservation," for purposes of the Source          
  Reduction Assistance notice, is defined as preventing pollution, promoting reuse    
  of materials, reducing the use of toxic chemicals, and/or conserving energy and     
  materials.                                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  


1014                                                                            11-08

  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  EPA is interested in supporting pollution prevention, source reduction and
  resource conservation projects that will provide an overall benefit to the
  environment by preventing pollutants at the source. Source reduction projects
  can include but are not limited to: 1) improving facility and institutional
  operations that reduce pollutant use and exposure, 2) reformulating and
  procuring products to reduce toxic constituents, 3) providing direct technical
  assistance to businesses and other organizations, 4) encouraging green product
  design and manufacturing, 5) conducting outreach, 6) collecting and analyzing
  data, and 7) integrating pollution prevention concepts into state, regional and
  tribal environmental multimedia programs. Grant activities must be consistent
  with the grant guidelines of the statutory authorities listed for this program. The
  statutory authorities are listed in this CFDA announcement and in the SRA grant
  solicitation. The statutes authorize grants for the following activities: "research,
  investigations, experiments, training, demonstrations of new or innovative
  techniques, surveys and studies." These activities relate generally to the
  gathering or transferring of information or advancing the state of knowledge.
  Grant proposals should emphasize this "learning" concept, as opposed to
  "fixing" an environmental problem via a well-established method. For example,
  a proposal to install a more energy efficient heating system in the applicant's
  facility in order to conserve energy, would not, in itself fall within research,
  studies, demonstrations, etc. All activities in the proposal must be eligible under
  one or more of the statutory authorities listed.
Applicant Eligibility:
  For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the
  Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible
  applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition
  Policy. Assistance under this program is available to the fifty States, the District
  of Columbia, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of Puerto
  Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, local governments, city or
  township governments, independent school district governments, state controlled
  institutions of higher education, Federally-recognized tribal governments, non-
  profits other than institutions of higher education private institutions of higher
  education, and community-based grassroots organizations. Nonprofit
  organizations must be able to demonstrate that they are eligible through
  documentation of nonprofit status provided the U.S. Internal Revenue Service or
  their state of incorporation. However, nonprofit organizations described in
  Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying
  activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not
  eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any State, Federally-recognized Tribal government, Intertribal Consortia,
  college/university, non-profit organization, local government or independent
  school district.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A 87 for State
  and local governments and federally recognized tribal governments, OMB
  Circular No. A 21 for educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A 122 for
  nonprofit institutions. Applicants may be requested to demonstrate they have
  appropriate background, academic training, experience in the field, and
  necessary equipment to carry out projects. EPA may ask applicants or principal
  investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. Standard grant forms are required, as provided by
  the EPA and must be used for this program. Forms may be obtained via the
  Internet by visiting: http://www.epa.gov/ogd/AppKit/application.htm. Please
  consult the Source Reduction Assistance program notice, posted to EPA's
  Pollution Prevention Grant web site at
  http://www.epa.gov/oppt/p2home/grants/index.htm for more information. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. If the applicant does not know who
  their Single Point of Contact is, they should contact the appropriate EPA
  Regional Pollution Prevention Program office listed in the Information Contacts
  section, or call the EPA Headquarters Grant Policy Information and Training
  Branch at 202-564-5325. Federally-recognized Tribal governments are not
  required to comply with this procedure.
Application Procedure:
  This CFDA program description is designed to benefit national and regional
  source reduction, pollution prevention, and resource conservation activities.
  Grant proposals must meet the requirements outlined in the national and regional
  Source Reduction Assistance solicitation notices. EPA will conduct the grant
