  Funding: $40,000. The recipient will provide technical assistance on less-toxic      
  cleaning practices to K-12 schools in Connecticut, Maine, Massachusetts, New         
  Hampshire and Vermont. EPA Funding: $84,860. The recipient will work to              
  increase methane recovery from natural gas production and reduce fugitive            
  emissions in the states of West Virginia and Virginia. EPA Funding: $42,553.         
  The recipient will develop a P2 student internship program to assist businesses      
  implement P2 projects. EPA Funding: $39,804. The recipient will document,            
  calculate and publicly recognize the environmental benefits of reducing the use      
  of fertilizers and pesticides. EPA Funding: $51,782. The recipient will provide      
  P2 technical assistance to manufactures in Minnesota. EPA Funding: $30,000.          
  The recipient will provide technical assistance to high schools to produce           
  biodiesel to be used in school vehicles.                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The exact evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this        
  CFDA description will be described in the competitive announcement. rest to          
  states, regions and/or Federally-recognized Tribal governments. Proposals            
  should implement or support a source reduction/pollution prevention project that     
  will provide an overall benefit to the environment by preventing the generation      
  of pollutants at the source, as well as, provide a method to characterize the actual 
  or potential environmental effects of the activity. In addition, state, regional and 
  tribal proposals must demonstrate that projects will promote pollution prevention    
  by addressing an environmental medium (i.e., air, water, and land) and promote       
  sustainable business/facility/institutional practices by addressing state, regional, 
  and/or tribal environmental concerns. Please review the Source Reduction             
  Assistance solicitation notice to EPA's Pollution Prevention Grant web page at       
  http://www.epa.gov/oppt/p2home/grants/index.htm for further instruction.             
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
66.718 NATIONAL COMMUNITY-BASED LEAD                                                   
OUTREACH AND TRAINING GRANT PROGRAM                                                    
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF PREVENTION, PESTICIDES, AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES,

                                                                                       
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY

                                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                       
  The statutory authority for this action is Section 10 of the Toxic Substances

                                                                                       
  Control Act (TSCA), as supplemented by Public Law No. 106-74 and Public

                                                                                       
  Law 105-174 which granted EPA permanent authority to use STAG funds to

                                                                                       
  award grants (other than PPGs) to entities eligible to receive grants under the

                                                                                       
  Agency's organic statutes.

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                       
  This lead outreach grant program is supported by EPA's goal to reduce

                                                                                       
  childhood lead poisoning. The projects support this goal by providing lead

                                                                                       
  poisoning outreach to low income communities. Funding Priority-Fiscal Year

                                                                                       
  2008: To support lead outreach activities to identify children's risks to lead

                                                                                       
  hazards.

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Assistance may be available for activities which relate to outreach efforts to       
  educate communities about the dangers of children's exposure to lead hazards.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Eligible recipients include national organizations, local governments,               
  community-based organizations, nonprofit organizations, faith-based                  
  organizations, community action agencies, institutions of higher learning, school    
  groups, trainers, and environmental consultants. For certain competitive funding     
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to

                                                                                       
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the

                                                                                       
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Local,Public Nonprofit Institution/Organization,Health Professional, Education       
  Professional, Builder/Contractor/Developer, Homeowner,Land/Property Owner,           
  Preschool, Low Income.

                                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                       
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive        
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify     
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be

                                                                                       
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional              
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see

                                                                                       
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.        
  12372.                                                                               
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for      
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA. The following forms must be             
  provided if proposal is submitted via grants.gov: Standard Form 424                  
  (Application for Federal Assistance); Standard Form 424A (Budget Information         
  - Non-Construction Programs). No forms are required to be provided if                
  submitting via mail to the EPA Headquarters contact.                                 
Award Procedure:



1016                                                                             11-08

  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Deadline specified in the Request for Proposals. Contact EPA Headquaters for
  deadline information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 90 days after the deadline for the proposal.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects are expected to be completed within 1 year. Funds are drawn down.
Reports:
  Quarterly reports are due at the end of each quarter. Financial status reports are
  due at the end of the grant period.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate charges to cooperative agreements, must be kept
  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA accounts. All records must be
  maintained for 3 years from the date of the submission of the annual financial
  status report, or longer if questions still remain, such as those raised as a result
  of audit.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,100,000; FY 08 est. $2,000,000; and FY 09 est. $2,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 07: Lowest Award: $76,925; Highest Award: $250,000; Average Award:
  $207,802. Applicants may be awarded up to $250,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  A total of 80 proposals were received and 15 awards were granted to the top 15
  applicants in fiscal year 2007. For Fiscal Years 2008 and 2009, it is anticipated
  that $2 million will be obligated for this program each year. A total of 50-80
  proposals are expected to be received and 6-8 grants are expected to be awarded
  in Fiscal Years 2008 and 2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  EPA Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements to State and Local Governments (40 CFR Part 31); Environmental
  Protection Agency. "EPA Assistance Administration Manual," available from
  the National Technical Information Service (NTIS), Springfield, VA 22161 on a
  subscription basis; Order No. NTIS UB/031.
Regional or Local Office:
  See EPA Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Darlene Watford, National Program Chemical Division (7404T), Office of
  Pollution Prevention and Toxics (OPPT), Environmental Protection Agency,
  1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20460-0001; Telephone: (202)
  566-0516; Fax: (202) 566-0469; E-mail: watford.darlene@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/lead.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of funded grants: (1) Lead outreach and training will be delivered to
  an econmoically disadvantaged urban neighborhood that has been heavily
  impacted by lead poisoning. Formal training and seminars, door-to-door home
  visits, and community events will be provided. (2) Four low income
  communities will receive lead awareness, training and infrastructure
