  development. Lead safe work practices will be taught to painters and remodelers.   
  Lead awareness will be offered to tenants, homeowners, and service delivery        
  networks. (3) Three counties will provide outreach materials to educate rental     
  property owners, public health and code officials, realtors, landlords, and others 
  in low in communities. Training will be offered to rental property owners, public  
  health and code officials, realtors, landlords on lead-safe work practices. An     
  extensive curriculum on training as well as a model guidebook for local housing    
  lead poisoning prevention ordinances will be developed. (4) Specialized            
  outreach will be conducted in border communities. Lead safe work practices         
  training will be provided to workers. Realtors will receive outreach on lead-      
  related laws and regulations and local requirements. Specialized training will be  
  provided to local youth and paint apprenticeship programs. (5) Approximately       
  280 contractors will attend a one-day joint EPA/HUD Lead Safety for                
  Remodeling, Repair and Painting course in rural communities. Media outreach        
  on lead poisoning and lead-safe work practices will be provided to more than       
  4000 consumers and do-it-yourselfers in rural communities at risk for lead         
  poisoning. More than 50 extension service agents and program specialists will      
  be trained at national conferences.                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA       
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
66.801 HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT STATE                                              
PROGRAM SUPPORT                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF SOLID WASTE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE,                                      
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Solid Waste Disposal Act, Sections 3011 (a) and (c); Public Law 94-580; 42         
  U.S.C. 6901 et seq.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assist State governments in the development and implementation of an            
  authorized hazardous waste management program for the purpose of controlling       
  the generation, transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous       
  wastes. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Assistance to State governments in    
  the development and implementation of an authorized hazardous waste                
  management program for the purpose of controlling the generation,                  
  transportation, treatment, storage and disposal of hazardous waste. Funding        
  Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Assistance to State governments in the development    
  and implementation of an authorized hazardous waste management program for         
  the purpose of controlling the generation, transportation, treatment, storage and  
  disposal of hazardous waste.                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Under Section 3011, funds may be used for development and implementation of        
  authorized State hazardous waste programs.                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  State agencies responsible for hazardous waste management within the 50            
  States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin      
  Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana            
  Islands, and interstate agencies established by the appropriate states and         
  approved by the EPA Administrator under Section 1005 of the Solid Waste            
  Disposal Act are eligible. For certain competitive funding opportunities under     
  this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to a particular subset of  
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's competition policy.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State agencies responsible for hazardous waste management within the 50            
  States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin      
  Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana            
  Islands, and interstate agencies established by the appropriate states and         
  approved by the EPA Administrator under Section 1005 of the Solid Waste            
  Disposal Act.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A 87 for State        
  and local governments. State work plan is to be sent to the appropriate EPA        
  Regional Office by the date 60 days before the beginning of the budget period      
  (typically by August 1 of each year, if the budget period is the Federal fiscal    
  year).                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required     
  by OMB Circular No. A 102 must be used for this program. This program is           
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal       
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the    
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
                                                                                     
  the program for review.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Requests for application forms and completed applications must be submitted to



                                                                                11-08
  the appropriate EPA Regional Grants Administration Office. The hazardous
  waste management staff of the appropriate EPA Regional Office (listed in the
  address appendix of the Catalog) is available to assist in preparation of the
  application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A
  110. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply
  for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  EPA reviews each application. They shall be subjected to administrative
  evaluation to determine adequacy of application in relation to grant regulations
  and to technical and program evaluation to determine the merit and relevancy of
  the project or program. For competitive awards, EPA will review applications,
  proposals or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria
  in the solicitation/announcement of the competitive funding opportunity.
  Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for
  competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  For States, application with approvable work program should be submitted by
  the date 60 days before the beginning of the budget period (usually by August 1)
  for grants to be awarded the following budget year. (Applicant may choose
  budget period, e.g., State or Federal fiscal year, subject to Regional
  Administrator's approval).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  For applicants under Section 3011, 60 days.
Appeals:
  As described in 40 CFR Part 31, Subpart F. Disputes will be resolved under 40
  CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  For applicants under Section 3011, grants and cooperative agreements are
  renewed annually, provided all requirements are met.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program operates under a formula. Statistical factors used for allocation
  include: (1) State population, as determined by the most recent Census; (2)
  number of hazardous waste management facilities in States, based on studies
  conducted by EPA, Office Of Solid Waste; (3) number of Large Quantity
  Generators (LQGs), based on studies conducted by EPA, Office of Solid Waste;
  and (4) the number of facilities requiring corrective action, based on studies
  conducted by EPA, Office of Solid Waste. By law, all States and trust territories
  are eligible for funding. The formula is based on each State's population (17
  percent); (LQG) number of facilities proceeding amount of waste produced (16
  percent); number of hazardous waste management facilities (52 percent); and the
  number of facilities requiring corrective action (15 percent). Matching
  Requirement: Maximum Federal share of approved costs is 75 percent; State
  must provide at least 25 percent of approved costs. (Regional Administrators
  will determine each State allotment.)
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are normally funded on a 12 month basis (Federal or State fiscal year).
  The total project period varies according to program requirements. Assistance is
  awarded by advance payment method.
Reports:
  Interim and final progress reports, expenditures and equipment reports.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial reports, including all documents to support entries on the accounting
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant or cooperative agreement must
  be kept available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts in an
  institution. All records must be maintained for 3 years from the date of the
  submission of the annual financial status report. If questions still remain, such as
  those raised as a result of audit, related records should be retained until the
  matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $101,944,000; FY 08 $101,429,000; and FY 09 $103,036,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Most fiscal years range $250,000 to $8,500,000; average: $1,960,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal years 2007 and 2008, States continued to develop and implement
  programs providing cradle to grave control of hazardous wastes (under Section
  3011).
                                                                                   1017
