REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures, Environmental Protection Agency,         
  40 CFR Part 31; State and Local Assistance, EPA, 40 CFR Part 35; "EPA              
  Assistance Administration Manual," available from the National Technical           
  Information Service, Springfield, VA 22161 on a subscription basis.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  State agencies are encouraged to communicate with the appropriate EPA              
  Regional Administrator listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  For information concerning preapplication coordination and application             
  procedures, contact Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division          
  (3903R), Environmental Protection Agency, Washington, DC 20460. For State          
  program information on Section 3011 of RCRA, contact Wayne Roepe, Office           
  of Solid Waste, (5303W), EPA, Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (703) 308-          
  8630, Fax: (703) 308-8609, E-mail: roepe.wayne@epa.gov.                            
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.epa.gov./epaoswer/osw/ .                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  66.500, Environmental Protection_Consolidated Research; 66.600,                    
  Environmental Protection Consolidated Grants for the Insular Areas - Program       
  Support.                                                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  State projects to develop a hazardous waste program designed to meet the           
  substantive and procedural requirements of an "authorized" program. (Section       
  3006). Specific types of activities conducted by states include (1) issuance of    
  hazardous waste management permits, (2) oversight of corrective action at          
  hazardous waste management facilities, (3) inspections of hazardous waste          
  management facilities, (4) inspections of hazardous waste generators, and (5)      
  waste minimization activities.                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA       
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                     
                                                                                     
66.802 SUPERFUND STATE, POLITICAL SUBDIVISION,                                       
                                                                                     
AND INDIAN TRIBE SITE-SPECIFIC COOPERATIVE                                           
AGREEMENTS                                                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF SUPERFUND REMEDIATION AND TECHNOLOGY                                     
  INNOVATION, OFFICE OF SOLID WASTE AND EMERGENCY                                    
  RESPONSE, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act              
  (CERCLA) of 1980, Section 104(d), as amended; 42 U.S.C. 9604(d) et seq.            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To (1) conduct site characterization activities at potential or confirmed          
  hazardous waste sites; (2) undertake response planning and implementation          
                                                                                     
  actions at sites on the National Priorities List (NPL) to clean up the hazardous

                                                                                     
  waste sites that are found to pose hazards to human health; and (3) effectively

                                                                                     
  implement the statutory requirements of CERCLA 121(f) which mandates

                                                                                     
  substantial and meaningful State involvement. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year

                                                                                     
  2008: Funding must be used at specific hazardous waste sites to: (1) conduct

                                                                                     
  non time critical removal actions; (2) perform site characterization activities

                                                                                     
  such as preliminary assessments, site inspections, remedial investigations,

                                                                                     
  feasibility studies, and remedial design activities at potential or confirmed

                                                                                     
  hazardous waste sites; (3) conduct remedial actions (i.e., clean up) at

                                                                                     
  uncontrolled hazardous waste sites as listed on the National Priorities List (40

                                                                                     
  CFR 300); (4) support CERCLA implementation activities; (5) identify

                                                                                     
  Potentially Responsible Parties (PRPs); (6) conduct settlement negotiations; (7)

                                                                                     
  take enforcement actions against PRPs; and (8) oversee PRP cleanups. Funding

                                                                                     
  Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Funding must be used at specific hazardous waste

                                                                                     
  sites to: (1) conduct non time critical removal actions; (2) perform site

                                                                                     
  characterization activities such as preliminary assessments, site inspections,

                                                                                     
  remedial investigations, feasibility studies, and remedial design activities at    
  potential or confirmed hazardous waste sites; (3) conduct remedial actions (i.e.,  
  clean up) at uncontrolled hazardous waste sites as listed on the National          
  Priorities List (40 CFR 300); (4) support CERCLA implementation activities;

                                                                                     
  (5) identify Potentially Responsible Parties (PRPs); (6) conduct settlement        
  negotiations; (7) take enforcement actions against PRPs; and (8) oversee PRP       
  cleanups.                                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                     
  Funding may be used to: (1) conduct non time critical removal actions; (2)

                                                                                     
  perform site characterization activities such as preliminary assessments, site

                                                                                     
  inspections, remedial investigations, feasibility studies, and remedial design

                                                                                     
  activities at potential or confirmed hazardous waste sites; (3) conduct remedial

                                                                                     
  actions (i.e., clean up) at uncontrolled hazardous waste sites listed on the

                                                                                     
  National Priorities List (40 CFR 300); (4) support CERCLA implementation

                                                                                     
  activities; (5) identify Potentially Responsible Parties (PRPs); (6) conduct

1018                                                                           11-08

  settlement negotiations; (7) take enforcement actions against PRPs; and, (8)
  oversee PRP cleanups. Funding may not be used to conduct tasks or activities
  not authorized by CERCLA. Funds may not be used for non-site-specific Core
  Program activities (see 66.809). Assistance agreement awards under this
  program may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information
  regarding geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following
  website: http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States (and political subdivisions thereof), Commonwealths, U.S. Territories and
  Possessions, and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, including
  intertribal consortia.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States (and political subdivisions thereof), Commonwealths, U.S. Territories and
  Possessions, and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, including
  intertribal consortia.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 40 CFR 35, Subpart O and OMB
  Circular No. A 87, "Cost Principles for State, Local, and Indian Tribal
  Governments," and other supporting documentation provided by the Agency.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A 102 must be used for this program. Consultation and
  preapplication conference(s) are recommended. This program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants may use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain
  grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  EPA regional Superfund program offices will conduct an administrative
  evaluation to determine the adequacy of the application in relation to grant
  regulations and technical and program evaluation to determine the merit and
  relevance of the project. The Agency will then advise the applicant if funding is
  being considered. A final work plan will then be negotiated with the applicant.
  Final approval of application and supporting documentation and offer of award
  is made by the EPA Regional Administrator unless redelegated to the Regional
  Division Director.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately ninety (90) days.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Extensions are available but not guaranteed. The original cooperative agreement
  is amended by using EPA Standard Form 424 and submitting it to the Regional
  Administrator.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None required for pre NPL activities or for remedial planning at any site if the
  site was privately owned and operated at the time of disposal of hazardous
  wastes. Matching Requirements: 10 percent State, 90 percent Federal, for
  remedial action if the site is privately owned and operated at the time of disposal
  of hazardous wastes. Minimum 50 percent State, 50 percent Federal, of all
  response costs if the site was State/locally operated at time of any disposal of
  hazardous waste (Note: percentage may vary). CERCLA section 104(c)(3).
  Tribal governments are not required to share in the costs of Superfund actions.
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds awarded for duration of project, subject to time constraints imposed by
  EPA. Money is released on a draw down or a letter of credit basis.
Reports:
  Progress reports, notification of significant developments, property inventory
  reports, procurement reports, financial reports, and final reports are required
  pursuant to 40 CFR 35, Subpart O.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
