  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 31 and Part 35, Subpart O are      
  applicable. Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents         
  supporting entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants,     
  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA recipients grants and              
  cooperative agreements records. The recipient must maintain all records for 10      
  years following submission of the final Financial Status Report unless otherwise    
  directed by the EPA award official, and must obtain written approval from the       
  EPA award official before destroying any records. If any litigation, claim,         
  negotiation, audit, cost recovery, or other action involving the records has been   
  started before the expiration of the ten year period, the records must be retained  
  until completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or 
  until the end of the regular ten year period, whichever is later.                   
Account Identification:                                                               
  20-8145-0-7-304.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $50,000,000; FY 08 est. $50,000,000; and FY 09 est. $50,000,000.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $30 thousand to $12.8 million; average amount $380 thousand.                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2007 and 2008, all 10 EPA Regional Offices awarded or continued      
  to fund cooperative agreements to lead cleanup actions, or to support EPA-lead      
  cleanup actions, at hazardous waste sites. Cooperative agreements were awarded      
  to lead the evaluation of newly discovered sites, to assess and investigate sites   
  that have been identified as needing further action, to select, in partnership with 
  EPA, the appropriate technologies and cleanup actions for these sites, to design    
  the selected technologies and cleanup actions, and to construct the designed        
  remedy. Funding was used to start or continue long term remedial actions to         
  treat ground water where remediation goals have not yet been reached. Finally,      
  funding was provided to meaningfully and substantially participate in cleanup       
  actions where EPA led the cleanup.                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  40 CFR 30; 40 CFR 31; 40 CFR 35, Subpart O; 25 CFR 20; and Program                  
  Guidance Documents.                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Regional Administrators: See Appendix IV of the Catalog.                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Angelo Carasea, State, Tribe and Site Identification Branch, Assessment and         
  Remediation Division, Office of Superfund Remediation and Technology                
  Innovation, Office of Solid Waste and Emergency Response, Mail Code 5204P,          
  EPA, Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (703)603-8828. E-mail:                        
  carasea.angelo@epa.gov. Fax: (703) 603-9104.                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/superfund                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  66.809, Superfund State and Indian Tribe Core Program Cooperative                   
  Agreements.                                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Preliminary Assessments/Site Inspections; Remedial Investigation; Feasibility

                                                                                      
  Study; Remedial Design; Remedial Action (i.e., clean up); PRP searches; RI/FS

                                                                                      
  negotiations; RD/RA Negotiations; PRP oversight; Non Time Critical Removal

                                                                                      
  Actions; State participation in federal lead projects.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  For fund-lead remedial action, the site must appear on the National Priorities

                                                                                      
  List of the National Oil and Hazardous Substances Contingency Plan (NCP) (40

                                                                                      
  CFR 300). Removal actions require a planning period of six months or more.

                                                                                      
  Each project is examined and selected on a case-by-case basis based upon site

                                                                                      
  ranking, availability of matching funds from the State, availability of Trust

                                                                                      
  funds, receipt of application and other criteria as determined by EPA.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
66.804 STATE AND TRIBAL UNDERGROUND STORAGE                                           
TANKS PROGRAM                                                                         
                                                                                      
   (UST Prevention Program)                                                           
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS, OFFICE OF SOLID                                
  WASTE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE, ENVIRONMENTAL                                         
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Solid Waste Disposal Act (SWDA) of 1976, as amended; Superfund                      
  Reauthorization Amendments of 1986, Subtitle I, Section 2007(f); Section 9011       
  and other applicable provisions of Subtitle I of the SWDA as amended for States     
  and Territories Energy Policy Act of 2005; 42 U.S.C. 6916(f)(2); Energy Policy      
  Act of 2005, Title XV, Ethanol And Motor Fuels, Subtitle B, Sections 1521 -         
  1533, Public Law 109-58, 42 U.S.C. 15801; Public Law 105-276.                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist States, Territories, Federally-recognized Indian Tribes and Intertribal   
  Consortia that meet the requirements at 40 CFR 35.504, in the development and       
  implementation of underground storage tank (UST) programs and for leak              
  prevention, compliance and other activities authorized by the Energy Policy Act     


                                                                                 11-08
  (EPAct) of 2005 and EPA's annual appropriations acts. Funding Priority - Fiscal
  Year 2008: High priority tasks include providing financial assistance: (1) to
  states and Tribes in implementing the UST program; (2) to states to help them
  meet their new responsibilities authorized under the Energy Policy Act (EPAct)
  (e.g., conducting more frequent inspections, prohibiting delivery to
  noncompliant tanks, and requiring either secondary containment for tank
  systems or financial responsibility for manufacturers and installers); (3) to
  Tribes to conduct on-site inspections in Indian Country every three years in
  accordance with EPAct requirements; (4) to states and Tribes to encourage
  owners and operators to properly operate and maintain their USTs; (5) to states
  and Tribes to ensure owners and operators routinely and correctly monitor all
  regulated tanks and piping in accordance with the regulations; and (6) to states
  to develop State programs with sufficient authority and enforcement capabilities
  to operate in lieu of the Federal program. LUST prevention funds may be used
  by States for inspections and other release prevention and compliance assurance
  activities for federally-regulated underground storage tanks (USTs), as well as
  for enforcement activities related to release prevention. Priority will be given to
  providing funds to enable the States to meet their responsibilities under Title
  XV, Subtitle B of the Energy Policy Act of 2005. States that have entered into
  cooperative agreements with EPA must have the authority to inspect and take
  other compliance and related enforcement actions to prevent releases from
  USTs. The Agency provides financial assistance to Tribes to develop and
  implement programs to manage USTs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  States and Tribes may use financial assistance under this program for eligible
  and allowable costs incurred under cooperative agreements for leak prevention,
  as described in the Section 54 Funding Priority. Unlike State and Tribal
  Assistance Grant funding under Section 2007(f) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act
  (SWDA), the LUST prevention funding under Section 9011 and other applicable
  provisions of Subtitle I of the SWDA is not eligible for inclusion in Performance
  Partnership Grants under 40 CFR 35.133. EPA may award combined STAG
  funded UST grants authorized by Section 2007(f) with LUST prevention
  cooperative agreements authorized by Subtitle I if the combined agreement is not
  included in a PPG. Grants are available to support recipients' eligible and
  allowable direct costs incurred under an approved work plan plus allowable
  indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and regulations.
  Funds awarded under this program may be used by states and Tribes for the
  following types of activities: (1) Encouraging owners and operators to properly
  operate and maintain their USTs. (2) Ensuring owners and operators routinely
  and correctly monitor all regulated tanks and piping in accordance with the
  regulations. (3) Developing State programs with sufficient authority and
  enforcement capabilities to operate in lieu of the Federal program. (4)
  Conducting more frequent inspections (including those in Indian Country). (5)
  Prohibiting delivery to noncompliance tanks. (6) Requiring either secondary
  containment for new tank systems or financial responsibility for manufacturers
  and installers. These grants may also be used for EPA to help States, who
  request it, and for the Agency, to obtain SEE enrollees through a SEE grant to
  work on the State's underground storage tanks and to support direct UST
  implementation programs. Assistance agreement awards under this program may
  involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov. "Geospatial Information" includes: information that
  identifies the geographic location and characteristics of natural or constructed
  features or boundaries on the Earth, or applications, tools, and hardware
  associated with the generation, maintenance, or distribution of such information.
  This information may be derived from, among other things, GPS, remote
  sensing, mapping, charting, and surveying technologies, or statistical data.
Applicant Eligibility:
  LUST Prevention cooperative agreements are only available to States and
  Territories. Additionally, these cooperative agreements are only available to
  Federally-recognized Tribes and Intertribal Consortia that must meet the
  requirements, as described in the Federal Register Notice, Vol. 67, No. 213, pp.
  67181-67183, "Update to EPA Policy on Certain Grants to Intertribal
  Consortia." UST grants authorized by Section 2007(f) of the SWDA are only
  available to States and Territories, as well as federally-recognized Tribes and
  Intertribal Consortia that meet the requirements at 40 CFR 35.504. These grants
  may also be used for EPA to help States, who request it, to obtain SEE enrollees
  through a SEE grant to work on the State's underground storage tanks and to
  support direct UST implementation programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, Territories, Tribes and Intertribal Consortia.
Credentials/Documentation:
  States and Territories must either submit certification indicating the State or
  Territory meets the applicable Energy Policy Act provisions, or submit
  documentation describing the State or Territory's efforts to meet the
  requirements, in accordance with EPA's Energy Policy Act grant guidelines
  (http://www.epa.gov/oust/fedlaws/epact_05.htm). The EPA Regional Offices
  maintain the credentials/documentation for State and Territorial programs and
                                                                                  1019
