  tribes non-competitively based on need and the number of federally regulated      
  underground storage tank systems. Funding provided to states for release          
  prevention must be expended in accordance with grant guidelines EPA issued to     
  implement the Title XV, Subtitle B of the Energy Policy Act of 2005,              
  http://www.epa.gov/swerust1/fedlaws/publ_109-058.pdf).                            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
66.805 LEAKING UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANK

                                                                                    
TRUST FUND PROGRAM                                                                  
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS, OFFICE OF SOLID                              
  WASTE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE, ENVIRONMENTAL                                       
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Solid Waste Disposal Act of 1976 (SWDA), as amended, Section 9003(h),             
  Public Law 105-276; Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense,        
  the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, Public Law 109-234.             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To support State (including Territories that are included in the definition of    
  "State" in the Solid Waste Disposal Act) and Tribal corrective action programs    
  that address releases from underground storage tanks. Funding Priority - Fiscal   
  Year 2008: Program funds from the Leaking Underground Storage Tanks               
  (LUST) Trust are used to provide resources to States and Tribes for their         
  underground storage tank (UST) programs. Corrective Action: Eighty percent        
  of the funds appropriated to the Agency for corrective action must be distributed 
  to the states under cooperative agreements. Program funds are to be used to       
  provide resources for the oversight and corrective action for petroleum releases  
  from federally-regulated underground storage tanks (USTs), as well as for         
  enforcement activities related to such corrective action. States that have entered
  into cooperative agreements with EPA have the authority to respond to             
  petroleum releases from USTs using Leaking Underground Storage Tanks              
  (LUST) Trust funds where owners and operators are unknown, unwilling or           
  unable to take corrective actions themselves, and in certain other circumstances. 
  States may also oversee responsible party cleanups. When the LUST Trust Fund      
  is used, tank owners/operators are liable to the State for costs incurred and are 
  subject to cost recovery actions. LUST Trust funds provide assistance to the      
  States and Tribal governments in developing and implementing corrective action    
  programs. LUST Trust Funds will not be used to implement any provision of the     
  Energy Policy Act (EPAct) of 2005, Title XV, Subtitle B, that is not also a       
  leaking underground storage tank activity authorized by Section 205 of the        
  Superfund Reauthorization Amendments.                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Formula Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  States and Tribes may use financial assistance under this program for eligible    
  and allowable costs incurred under cooperative agreements for corrective action,  
  as described in the Section 54 Funding Priority. This financial assistance        
  program is not eligible for inclusion in Performance Partnership Grants under 40  
  CFR 35.133. EPA will award cooperative agreements for corrective action           
  activities. Corrective Action: The applicable provisions in OSWER Directive       
  9650.10A, "LUST Trust Fund Cooperative Agreement Guidelines" apply to             
  states receiving funds under this program. See                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/swerust1/directiv/d965010a.htm. FY 2006 Emergency              
  Supplemental funding for the 2005 Gulf of Mexico Hurricanes was available         
  only for Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama (Texas and Florida declined the       
  funding) for activities that were related to the consequences of hurricanes, such 
  as addressing the most immediate underground storage tank needs in areas          
  affected by the 2005 Gulf of Mexico hurricanes, including site assessments of     
  leaking underground storage tanks to identify problems and initiate appropriate   
  corrective action. See the Office of Underground Storage Tanks Program            
  Guidance for FY 2006 Gulf of Mexico Hurricane Supplemental Funding for            
  Cooperative Agreements Awarded under the Leaking Underground Storage              
  Tank Trust Fund Program.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Cooperative agreements are only available to States and Territories that have     
  UST programs. Additionally, these cooperative agreements are only available to    
  Federally-recognized Tribes and Intertribal Consortia that must meet the          
  requirements, as described in the Federal Register Notice, Vol. 67, No. 213, pp.  
  67181-67183, "Update to EPA Policy on Certain Grants to Intertribal               
  Consortia."                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  States, Territories, Tribes and Intertribal Consortia and the communities and     
  industries affected by leaks from underground storage tanks.                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  The EPA Regional Offices maintain the credentials/documentation for State and     
  Territorial programs and federally-recognized Tribes and Intertribal Consortia.   
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State       
  and local governments.                                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental        


                                                                               11-08
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. Tribes and Intertribal Consortia are
  not required to follow intergovernmental review procedures.
Application Procedure:
  States and Tribes apply for funds through EPA regional offices under this
  CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  These funds are awarded non-competitively. Applications will be subjected to
  administrative evaluation to determine the adequacy of application in relation to
  assistance agreement regulations and to technical and program evaluation to
  determine the merit and relevance of the project. The Agency will advise the
  applicant if funding is being considered. A final work plan will be negotiated
  with the applicant. A cooperative agreement must be signed between EPA and
  the State or Territory or EPA and the Tribe or Intertribal Consortia. These grants
  are non-discretionary. EPA awards the cooperative agreement to states through a
  previously established allocation process, issued under national guidance rather
  than through competition. For the Emergency Supplemental funding for the
  2005 Gulf of Mexico Hurricanes, EPA used a separate allocation process to
  distribute the funds to Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama. See EPA Order
  5700.5, Section 6(c)(1).
Deadlines:
  Proposals generally must be received prior to May 15 for funding in the
  applicable fiscal year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 3 to 4 months.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Contact the appropriate Regional Office. See
  http://www.epa.gov/OUST/regions/index.htm.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Corrective Action: LUST corrective action funding awarded under Section
  9003(h)(7) of the Solid Waste Disposal Act is subject to an allocation process
  developed by the Agency. By guidance, the Agency has established a process for
  allocating funds to states under Section 9003(h)(7) based on the cumulative
  numbers of confirmed UST releases, cleanups initiated, cleanups completed, the
  percentage of the population using groundwater for drinking water, and the
  number of states with approved UST programs. This program allocates funding
  to Tribes and Intertribal Consortia non-competitively based on their
  programmatic needs and national guidance. States must provide a 10 percent
  cost share for cooperative agreements awarded under Section 9003(h)(7). There
  is no matching requirement for corrective action cooperative agreements for
  Tribes or Intertribal Consortia awarded pursuant to Public Law 105-276.
  Cooperative agreements EPA awards under Emergency Supplemental
  Appropriations Act to Address Hurricanes in the Gulf of Mexico and Pandemic
  Influenza, 2006, Section 402 of the H. Con. Res. 95 (109th Congress) (the Gulf
  of Mexico Hurricanes Supplemental) and the Emergency Supplemental
  Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on Terror, and Hurricane
  Recovery, 2006, H.R. 4939 (Public Law 109-234) (the Gulf of Mexico 2nd
  Hurricanes Supplemental) to Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama were subject
  to a separate allocation formula for EPA Regions 4 and 6. Activities related to
  the consequences of hurricanes included addressing the most immediate
  underground storage tank needs in areas affected by the 2005 Gulf of Mexico
  hurricanes, such as site assessments of leaking underground storage tanks to
  identify problems and initiate appropriate corrective action. See the Office of
  Underground Storage Tanks Program Guidance for FY 2006 Gulf of Mexico
  Hurricane Supplemental Funding for Cooperative Agreements Awarded under
  the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The terms of the grant shall be determined at the time of the grant award by the
  specific EPA Regional Office. For the Gulf of Mexico 1st Hurricanes
  Supplemental, grants were awarded on either single-year or two-year bases. The
  Gulf of Mexico 2nd Hurricanes Supplemental is for "necessary expenses related
  to the consequences of Hurricane Katrina and other hurricanes of the 2005
  season." Congress intended for these funds "to remain available (for award) until
  September 30, 2007."
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are identified at 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31. EPA Regional
  Offices may include additional information regarding the content and frequency
  of reporting requirements in the terms and conditions of the agreements. For the
  Emergency Supplemental funding for the 2005 Gulf of Mexico Hurricanes
  cooperative agreements, Louisiana, Mississippi and Alabama shall provide EPA
  with specific storm-damage related information, as specified in the terms and
  conditions of the agreements.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
                                                                                  1021
