  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each           
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,           
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit                   
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in         
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal            
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                                
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are          
  applicable depending upon the identity of the recipient. Financial records,           
  including all documents to support entries on accounting records and to               
  substantiate changes to each grant must be kept available to personnel                
  authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be maintained until        
  expiration of three years from the date of submission of the final expenditure        
  report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related 
  records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.                   
Account Identification:                                                                 
  20-8153-0-7-304.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $57,661,000; FY 08 est. $62,207,000 and FY 09 est. $58,207,000.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  For the LUST corrective action funding, in FY 07, and FY08, Range for                 
  Territories and States: $43,000 - $3,400,000; Territory Average $45,000; State        
  Average: $910,000. Range for Tribes and Intertribal Consortia: $22,000 -              
  $140,000; Average: $48,000.                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  For FY 2007, 49 States, six territories and approximately 10 Indian Tribes            
  submitted assistance agreement applications and the same number of awards             
  were granted in FY 2007. In FY 2007, EPA met and exceeded its FY 2007                 
  national goal of 13,000 LUST cleanups completed. States, Territories, Tribes          
  and Intertribal Consortia completed 13,862 LUST cleanups completed.                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  40 CFR Part 31; Guidelines: Leaking Underground Storage Tanks Trust Fund.             
  Cooperative Agreement Guidelines. Office of Underground Storage Tanks                 
  Program Guidance for FY 2006 Gulf of Mexico Hurricane Supplemental                    
  Funding for Cooperative Agreements Awarded under the Leaking Underground              
  Storage Tank Trust Fund Program. Energy Policy Act of 2005 Grant Guidelines,          
  http://www.epa.gov/swerust1/index.htm. Costs will be determined in                    
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 (2 CFR Part 225) for State and local            
  governments and Indian Tribes and OMB Circular A-122 (2 CFR Part 230) for             
  Intertribal Consortia that follow the assistance regulations for nonprofit            
  organizations. Contact Regional LUST Program Manager for documents.                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  See Appendix IV Of the Catalog for list of Underground Storage Tanks Regional         
  Program Manager addresses.                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/OUST/oustcont.htm; Fax: (703) 603-0175; E-mail:                    
  depont.lynn@epa.gov.                                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.epa.gov/OUST/cat/index.htm.                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  66.804, State and Tribal Underground Storage Tanks Program.                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Corrective Action: Specific examples of funded projects are: (1) Review of site       
  characterization reports; (2) Review of corrective action plans; (3) Conduct          
  enforcement actions; (4) Provide assistance to Tribes to help develop and             
  implement the LUST program; and (5) Conduct cleanups and provide oversight            
  of responsible party cleanups.                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  This program allocates funding to States and Tribes non-competitively under the

                                                                                        
  allocation system referenced in Section 101, under a separate system for

                                                                                        
  supplemental funding for damage caused by the 2005 Gulf of Mexico

                                                                                        
  Hurricanes. Guidelines for LUST cooperative agreements for corrective action

                                                                                        
  are found in OSWER Directive 9650-10A, and at OUST's website

                                                                                        
  http://www.epa.gov/swerust1/directiv/d965010a.htm.

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
66.806 SUPERFUND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS                                            
(TAG) FOR COMMUNITY GROUPS AT NATIONAL                                                  
                                                                                        
PRIORITY LIST (NPL) SITES

                                                                                        
   (TAG)                                                                                
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  OFFICE OF SUPERFUND REMEDIATION AND TECHNOLOGY                                        
  INNOVATION, OFFICE OF SOLID WASTE AND EMERGENCY                                       
  RESPONSE, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act                 
  (CERCLA) of 1980, as amended, Section 117(e), Public Law 96-510; Superfund            
1022                                                                              11-08

  Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, as amended, Public Law 99-499,
  42 U.S.C. 9617.
OBJECTIVES:
  The statutory authority for this project is CERCLA 117(e) as amended by 42
  U.S.C. 9617(e); it authorizes Technical Assistance Grants to be awarded to
  groups of individuals affected by or threatened by a release at a Superfund site
  so that they can obtain independent technical assistance to interpret site-related
  documents and share this information to the rest of the community. The
  objective of each TAG is to procure an independent technical advisor(s) to
  review and inform the community on EPA documents related to cleaning up the
  Superfund site that is affecting them. The goal of each TAG is that the technical
  advisor's information aids the community in the preparation of public comments
  and assists the community to more meaningfully participate in the cleanup
  decision-making process. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Only one grant is
  available per site, at any time. EPA does not prioritize among eligible sites. All
  TAG applications are given equal priority as long as the site and group are
  eligible. The applicant group must meet minimum administrative and
  management capability requirements by demonstrating they have or will have
  reliable procedures for record keeping and financial accountability related to
  TAG management. In addition, all applications must address: plans for using a
  technical advisor's services, plans and ability to inform other members of the
  community, and the group's membership (representative of the different
  individuals/groups affected by the site). Funding must be used to provide
  resources so that community groups can obtain technical assistance to better
  understand technical issues related to the cleanup of the Superfund site affecting
  them and to provide comments on technical, cleanup-related documents.
  Technical issues for which groups obtain technical assistance may include: the
  nature of the environmental and public health hazards at the site; the various
  stages of health and environmental investigations; cleanup and operation and
  maintenance activities for a site, including exposure investigation, health study,
  surveillance program, health promotion activities (for example, medical
  monitoring and pediatric health units), remedial investigation, and feasibility
  study, record of decision, remedial design, selection and construction of
  remedial action, operation and maintenance, and removal.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  All or most of the Federal funds must be used, at sites listed on the National
  Priorities List (NPL) or proposed for listing under the National Contingency Plan
  (NCP) where a response action has begun under CERCLA, to procure a
  technical advisor(s) to help in understanding the nature of the environmental and
  public health hazards at the site, the various stages of health and environmental
  investigations and activities, cleanup, and operation and maintenance of a site,
  including exposure investigation, health study, surveillance program, health
  promotion activities (for example, medical monitoring and pediatric health
  units), remedial investigation, and feasibility study, record of decision, remedial
  design, selection and construction of remedial action, operation and
  maintenance, and removal. Limitations: (a) Federal funds cannot be used to
  develop new primary data, such as conducting independent testing and
  monitoring activities at a site. (b) Under CERCLA, as amended, grant funds
  cannot be used for lawsuits or other legal actions, or attorney fees for services
  connected to any legal action or that could result in a relationship to which
  attorney/client privileges applies. (c) Grant funds cannot be applied towards a
  technical advisor's time spent assisting an attorney in preparing a legal action or
  preparing and serving as an expert witness at any legal proceedings. (d) Grant
  funds cannot be used for any activities or expenditures for recipient group
  members' travel. (e) Grant funds cannot be used for political activity and
  lobbying. (f) Grant funds cannot be used for generation of new health data
  through biomedical testing (for example, blood or urine testing), clinical
  evaluations, health studies, surveillance, registries, and/or public health
  investigations. (g) Grant funds cannot be used for activities that are unallowable
  under the cost principles stated in Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
  Circular No. A-122. (h) Grant funds cannot be used for tuition or other training
  expenses for recipient group's members. (i) Grant funds cannot be used to
  reopen or challenge final EPA decisions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A technical assistance grant (TAG) is available to any qualified group of
  individuals which: may be "affected" by a release or threatened release at any
  facility listed on the NPL or proposed for listing under the NCP where a
  "response action" under CERCLA has begun; meets minimum administrative
  and management capability requirements found in 40 CFR 30.12 by
  demonstrating they have or will have reliable procedures for record keeping and
  financial accountability related to TAG management; and incorporates as a
  nonprofit for the specific purpose of the representing "affected" individuals at
  the site. "Affected" means subject to actual or potential health, economic or
  environmental threat. A group is ineligible if: (a) The group is a "potentially
  responsible party" (PRP), receives money or services from a PRP, or represents a
  PRP; (b) The group is affiliated with a national organization; (c) The group is an
  academic institution; (d) The group is a political subdivision; (e) The group was
  established or is presently sustained by any of the ineligible entities listed above;
