  or (f) The group is not incorporated as a nonprofit organization for the specific  
  purpose of representing affected people except as provided in 40 CFR 35.4045.      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  This program will benefit groups of individuals affected by Superfund hazardous    
  waste sites. This may include homeowners, land/property owners, as well as any     
  other individuals in the general public who live near a site or are otherwise      
  affected by a site.                                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  At the time of the award, a recipient must either be incorporated or demonstrate   
  that they have taken all necessary and appropriate actions to do so. Recipients    
  must show proof of incorporation no later than the time of the group's first       
  request for reimbursement for costs incurred. This program is excluded from        
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87. This program is subject to the               
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-122.                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  (1) Groups wishing to apply for a TAG must first submit to EPA a letter of intent  
  (LOI). Groups interested in applying for a TAG are encouraged to contact their     
  regional TAG coordinator(s), listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog). (2) If site    
  work is already underway or scheduled to begin, EPA will publish a notice in the   
  local newspaper to formally notify other interested parties that they may contact  
  the first group that sent the LOI to form a coalition or they may submit a         
  separate LOI. (3) Competing groups are encouraged to consolidate and submit a      
  single application. (4) Prior to submitting their application to EPA (or           
  concurrently), the applicant must submit the application package for their State's 
  intergovernmental review process. This intergovernmental review may take up to     
  60 days. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-          
  102. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110. This     
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review       
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official           
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. For more information regarding the      
  procedures for submitting a LOI or for application assistance, contact the TAG     
  coordinator(s) for your region (in Appendix IV of the Catalog) or the individuals  
  listed under "Information Contacts."                                               
Application Procedure:                                                               
  An applicant for a TAG must submit the following materials in accordance with      
  40 CFR 35.4125 of the Final Rule: (1) An original EPA Form 424, Application        
  for Federal Assistance. The application must have the original signature of the    
  project manager. (2) A budget showing the proposed expenditure of funds, how       
  the funds and other resources, including the required 20 percent match, will be    
  used to complete the project , and how the budget figures were derived. (3) A      
  scope of work which states how the group will organize, use procured personnel,    
  and share and disseminate information to the larger affected community. In         
  addition, the scope of work must explain project milestones and how the group's    
  board of directors, technical advisors(s) and "project manager" will interact with 
  each other. (4) Assurances, certifications and other preaward paperwork as 40      
  CFR part 30 requires. Currently, opportunities under this CFDA are not             
  available and electronic submissions are not accepted through www.grants.gov.      
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  (1) A TAG review team in the EPA Regional Office to which the application is       
  submitted reviews the application and sends a letter containing written            
  comments telling the applicant what, if any, changes need to be made to the        
  application to make it complete. (2) An applicant group has 90 days from the       
  date of the EPA letter to make the changes to their application and resubmit it to 
  EPA. If the changes are not submitted within the 90-day period, the application    
  will be returned unprocessed. (3) EPA determines the applicant's eligibility       
  under 40 CFR 35.4020 and considers whether and how successfully the group          
  meets three equally weighted criteria in 40 CFR 35.4155 (see "Criteria for         
  Selecting Proposals," below). When multiple groups apply, EPA will rank each       
  applicant relative to other applicants using the three equally weighted criteria.  
  (4) If an applicant is not going to be awarded a TAG, the EPA will send a letter   
  of rejection to the applicant. (5) If an application is approved for an award, a   
  grant agreement document (EPA Form 5700-20A) is signed by the EPA award            
  official. This document becomes an offer from EPA to the applicant. Award          
  offers are mailed to the recipient five working days after the award official signs
  the agreement. (6) The applicant must sign and return the agreement to EPA         
  within three weeks of the date the agreement is postmarked or request an           
  extension. EPA will review applications in accordance to terms, conditions and     
  criteria in the TAG regulations and EPA's policy for competing assistance          
  agreements.                                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                           
  There are no fixed deadlines until EPA receives a LOI from an interested group,    
  for a site listed on the NPL or is proposed for listing on the NPL where a         
  response action is underway. Once a LOI is received, EPA will publish a            
  newspaper announcement saying an LOI has been received for a TAG at a              
  specific site; other interested applicants have 30 days from the date of the       
  announcement to submit their own LOIs or to join the original group in applying    
  for a TAG. After this initial 30-day period, the groups who submitted LOIs have    
  30 days to submit a completed application to EPA.                                  


                                                                                11-08
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 4 to 9 weeks.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
  Before a group obtains judicial review of the dispute, they must have requested
  the Regional Administrator to review the dispute decision official's
  determination under 40 CFR 31.70(c), and if the group still has a dispute, they
  must request the Assistant Administrator for the Office of Solid Waste and
  Emergency Response to review the Regional Administrator's decision under 40
  CFR 31.70(h).
Renewals:
  Grant waiver requests are made at the end of the budget period and are based on
  the requirements of 40 CFR 35.4065, which lists criteria which must be met.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  As directed by statute (Section 117(e) of CERCLA, as amended by 42 USC
  9617(e)) there may be only one grant per site, there is a $50,000 award limit
  unless waived, and recipient must contribute a 20 percent match (including in-
  kind contributions).
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  A grant may be available from the time a site is proposed for listing under the
  NCP (with a response action underway) until the site is delisted from the NPL -
  this time span varies based on the complexity of the site cleanup; a group may
  submit an LOI to apply for a TAG at any eligible site at any point in the site
  cleanup. For each award, the grant period is determined by the time needed to
  complete the scope of work stated in the grant application and through
  negotiations with EPA (this is generally a period of three years or greater).
  Grants under this CFDA are reimbursement-based; a grantee may draw down
  funds to cover grant-related expenses they have incurred (such as a technical
  advisor's invoice for services/expenses).
Reports:
  (1) Progress reports. Each recipient shall submit quarterly progress reports to
  EPA for the technical assistance grant project 45 days after the end of each
  calendar quarter. Progress reports shall fully describe in chart or narrative format
  the progress achieved in relationship to the approved schedule, budget, and the
  technical assistance grant project milestones. Special problems encountered
  must be explained. (2) Financial status report. Each recipient shall submit to
  EPA a financial status report annually, within 90 days of the anniversary date of
  the start of the TAG project. These reports shall include the status of project's
  funds through identification of project transactions and within 90 days after the
  end of the TAG funding period. (3) Final report. Each recipient shall submit to
  EPA the final report within 90 days after the end of the project. The report shall
  describe project goals and objectives, activities undertaken to achieve goals and
  objectives, difficulties encountered, technical advisors' work products and funds
  spent. (4) Requests for Reimbursement or Federal Cash Transactions Reports.
  Depending on the method of payment, each recipient shall submit periodic
  requests for reimbursement as funds are needed, or shall submit to EPA a federal
  cash transaction report semiannually, within 15 working days following the end
  of the semiannual period which ends June 30 and December 31 of each year.
  These reports shall include the amount of funds advanced to the TAG recipient
  or electronically transferred to the TAG recipient's bank account, and a
  description of how the funds were spent. (5) Minority-Owned Business
  Enterprise/Women-Owned Enterprise (MBE/WBE) Utilization. Each recipient
  shall submit to EPA a MBE/WBE Utilization report annually, even if no
  contracts have been signed. Each recipient is required to disclose whether they
  have contracted with a MBE/WBE in the past Federal fiscal year, the value of
  the contract, if any, and the percentage of the total project dollars on
  MBE/WBEs. (6) Each recipient shall comply with any reporting requirements in
  the terms and conditions of the "grant agreement". (7) Each recipient shall
  comply with any reporting and record keeping requirements in OMB Circular A-
  122 and 40 CFR Part 30.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  (1) Each recipient shall keep complete financial records accurately showing how
  the Federal funds were used and the match, whether it is in the form of cash or
  in-kind assistance. (2) Each recipient shall comply with any reporting and record
  keeping requirements of OMB Circular A-122 and 40 CFR Part 30. (3) Each
  recipient must keep TAG financial records for ten years from the date of the
  final Financial Status Report, or until any audit, litigation, cost recovery, and/or
  disputes initiated before the end of the ten-year retention period are settled,
                                                                                   1023
