  waste generation and management problems at the local, regional and national        
  levels. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Partnerships - Establishing and        
  developing partnerships with states, local governments and other non profit         
  organizations to assist them in advancing their waste management programs,          
  including recycling and reduction of wastes, appropriate management of wastes       
  that are generated, and developing integrated waste management plans.               
  Education and Outreach - Developing and providing education, training, and          
  outreach materials to educate and inform Americans about waste's impact on          
  resource and energy use and pollution. Fostering a better understanding of the      
  environmental ramifications of collective actions including how individual          
  purchasing and manufacturing decisions are connected to the environment and         
  to enable Americans to make better choices resulting in increased recycling, less   
  waste and greater energy savings.                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Available for the allowable direct cost expenditures incident to program            
  performance plus allocable portions of allowable indirect costs of the institution, 
  in accordance with established EPA policies. Projects can include the following     
  types of activities: training, surveys, education materials and programs, studies,  
  and demonstrations; assistance to such projects shall not include any element of    
  construction, or any acquisition of land or interest in land, or any subsidy for the
  price of recovered resources. Assistance agreement awards under this program        
  may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding      
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:            
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State (including the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Guam,       
  American Samoa, and Northern Mariana Islands), local, Tribal, interstate, and       
  intrastate government agencies and instrumentalities; and nonprofit                 
  organizations that are not 501(c)(4) organizations that lobby, including nonprofit  
  educational institutions and nonprofit hospitals. Individuals and for-profit        
  organizations are not eligible. For certain competitive funding opportunities       
  under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a       
  number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance     
  Agreement Competition Policy. Additionally, EPA may limit competition under         
  this CFDA to Tribes and Inter-Tribal Consortia.                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, the public, and      
  interstate agencies.                                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-87.                 
  Nonprofits need to provide proof of their status.                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Discussion with EPA Headquarters or the appropriate EPA Regional Office is          
  advisable. (See Appendix IV of the Catalog for list of Regional Contacts). This     
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review        
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official            
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review. Regarding pre-application/pre-           
  proposal assistance with respect to competitive funding opportunities under this    
  program description, EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-              
  application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in
  the competitive announcement. For additional information, contact the               
  individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog.   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The standard application form as furnished by the Federal agency and required       
  by OMB Circular No. A 102 must be used for this program. Requests for               
  application forms and submission of completed applications should be directed       
  to EPA Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division (3903R),               
  Washington, DC 20460, or the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in              
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB        
  Circulars No. A 110 and No. A102. Applicants may be able to use                     
  http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities       
  under this CFDA.                                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  EPA reviews each application. They shall be subjected to administrative             
  evaluation to determine the adequacy of the application in relation to grant        
  regulations and program evaluation criteria to determine the merit and relevance    
  of the project. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate                
  applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms,           
                                                                                      
  conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions

                                                                                      
  will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing

                                                                                      
  assistance agreements.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:

  Varies from region to region. Contact appropriate Regional Office for details.      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 180 days.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                              


                                                                                 11-08
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR 3629,
  3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also be requested by
  contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts." Disputes relating
  to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients will be resolved
  under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. A standard grant application should be prepared and submitted, which
  will be reviewed in the same manner as a new application.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program does not have a statutory formula for distributing funds or
  statutory cost share requirement. As a matter of policy, EPA requires a minimum
  5 percent cost share when the Agency funds grantees for more than one year.
  This requirement does not apply to the first year's funding. The Agency may
  waive the requirement in subsequent years on a case by case basis.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants will normally be funded on a 12 month basis (yearly). The total approved
  project period is generally no longer than 3 years.
Reports:
  Quarterly interim and final progress, expenditure, equipment and invention
  reports.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be
  maintained until expiration of three years from the date of submission of the
  final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as those raised during the
  three year project period as a result of an audit, related records should be
  retained until the matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0107-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $2,700,601; FY 08 $3,000,000; and FY 09 est $3,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  (Fiscal year 2007) $4,000 to $940,000; $67,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 45 projects were awarded. The estimate of projects for fiscal
  year 2008 is about the same. Quantifiable data on the number and ratio of past
  applications not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures, Environmental Protection Agency
  (40 CFR Parts 30, 31 and 33); "EPA Assistance Administration Manual,"
  available from the National Technical Information Service, Springfield, VA
  22161, on a subscription basis.
Regional or Local Office:
  Individuals are encouraged to communicate with the appropriate EPA Regional
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  For information concerning grant applications and procedures, contact the
  Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements
  Management Division, 3903F, Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 260-
  9266. For general information on Solid Waste Management Assistance grants,
  please contact Nick Vizzone, at EPA/OSWER/OSW/CIRMD Mail Code
  5305W, Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (703) 308-8460. Fax: (703) 308-
  7904. E-mail: vizzone.nick@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/epaoswer/osw.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.500, Environmental Protection_Consolidated Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Conference to provide a national forum for tribal governments to disseminate
  environmental program training and to interact with federal partners; (2)
  Conduct outreach to state purchasers, educate them about the guidelines
  established in January 2002, and encourage them to formally adopt product
  stewardship purchasing criteria into their state purchasing contracts for carpet;
  (3) Challenge the electronics industry to design products that meet new, peer
  reviewed design principles and recycling strategies; (4) Develop and implement
  a mercury containing lamp recycling outreach program; (5) Increase public
                                                                                   1025
