  awareness of mercury containing lamp recycling and access to resource               
  information; (6) Foster information sharing among State regulatory programs         
  with varying regulatory approaches and experiences and in differing stages of       
  maturity.                                                                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA        
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
66.809 SUPERFUND STATE AND INDIAN TRIBE CORE                                          
PROGRAM COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF SUPERFUND REMEDIATION AND TECHNOLOGY                                      
  INNOVATION, OFFICE OF SOLID WASTE AND EMERGENCY                                     
  RESPONSE, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act               
  (CERCLA), Section 104(d), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9604(d) et seq.                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To effectively implement the statutory requirements of CERCLA Section 121(f)        
  for State involvement. To provide funds to conduct CERCLA activities which          
  are not assignable to specific sites, but support a recipient's site-specific       
  response program. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Funding may be used          
  for a variety of activities that include: (1) procedures for emergency response     
  actions and remediation of environmental and health risks; (2) provisions for       
  satisfying all requirements and assurances; (3) development of legal authorities    
  and enforcement support; (4) hiring and training staff; and, (5) activities that    
  support EPA/recipient interaction. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Funding     
  may be used for a variety of activities that include: (1) procedures for emergency  
  response actions and remediation of environmental and health risks; (2)             
  provisions for satisfying all requirements and assurances; (3) development of       
  legal authorities and enforcement support; (4) hiring and training staff; and, (5)  
  activities that support EPA/recipient interaction.                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Core Program Cooperative Agreements are offered to ensure that each State, or       
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribe or intertribal consortia can substantially        
  participate in CERCLA response actions. Recipients negotiate with EPA               
  Regions to receive funding for a variety of activities that include: (1) Procedures 
  for emergency response actions and remediation of environmental and health          
  risks; (2) provisions for satisfying all requirements and assurances; (3)           
  development of legal authorities and enforcement support; (4) hiring and            
  training staff; and (5) activities that support EPA/Recipient interaction.          
  Recipients with Regional approval may receive awards for multi year budget and      
  project periods at the Region's discretion. Funding for the entire project may be   
  made as a lump sum or incrementally over time. Recipients must demonstrate          
  progress towards the goals stated in the Core Program Cooperative Agreement in      
  order to be eligible for continued funding. Only one Core Program Cooperative       
  Agreement will be awarded to each eligible State or Tribe or intertribal consortia  
  through the Single Point of Contact. Funds must be used for non-site-specific       
  activities as described above.                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  States, Commonwealths, U.S. Territories and Possessions, and Federally              
  Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and intertribal consortia.                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  States, Commonwealths, U.S. Territories and Possessions, and Federally              
  Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and intertribal consortia.                     
                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 40 CFR Part 35 Subpart O and

                                                                                      
  OMB Circular No. A 87, "Cost Principles for State, Local, and Indian Tribal

                                                                                      
  Governments," and other supporting documentation required by the Agency.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required      
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. Consultation and           
  pre-application conference are recommended. This program is eligible for            
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."          
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point   
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State        
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the   
  program for review.                                                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for     
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  EPA regional Superfund program offices review the applications for cooperative      
                                                                                      
  agreements. Final approval of application and supporting documentation and

                                                                                      
  offer of award is made by the EPA Regional Administrator unless re-delegated

                                                                                      
  to the Regional Division Director.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:



1026                                                                            11-08

  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately ninety (90)days.
Appeals:
  Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Applications for additional funding need to include only the revised pages from
  EPA Form 424.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  As required by 40 CFR Part 35 Subpart O, State recipients of Core Program
  Cooperative Agreements must provide a 10 percent cost share of the total project
  cost on all awards. This match may be made from either direct, non-federal
  funds, non reimbursed fund, or with in kind contributions. CERCLA credits
  earned at other Superfund sites cannot be used to meet the 10 percent match.
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is awarded as a lump sum, or may be incrementally funded.
  Recipients with Regional approval may receive cooperative agreement awards
  for multi year budget and project periods at the Region's discretion. Continued
  funding of tasks in subsequent years is based on an evaluation of demonstrated
  progress towards the goals in the Core Program Cooperative Agreement
  Statement of Work.
Reports:
  The recipients must submit progress reports no more frequently than quarterly,
  but at a minimum annually. The recipients must submit financial status reports
  annually, and a final report.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 31 and Part 35, Subpart O are
  applicable. Recipients must keep financial records, including all documents
  supporting entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes in grants,
  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA recipients grants and
  cooperative agreements records. The recipient must maintain all records for 10
  years following submission of the final Financial Status Report unless otherwise
  directed by the EPA award official, and must obtain written approval from the
  EPA award official before destroying any records. If any litigation, claim,
  negotiation, audit, cost recovery, or other action involving the records has been
  started before the expiration of the ten year period, the records must be retained
  until completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or
  until the end of the regular ten-year period, whichever is later.
Account Identification:
  68-8145-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  (Core Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $8.8,000,000; FY 08 est. $8,000,000, FY
  09 est. $8,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $26,000 to $571,000; average award amount: $232,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007, the types of activities that are permitted to be funded
  include: hiring staff, administrative salaries, clerical help, financial accounting,
  data management, program management, medical monitoring, health and safety
  training for field employees, computer systems purchases, training, legal
  assistance and legislative development. Outputs include reports, accounting and
  tracking systems, hired and trained staff, cost recovery procedures and
  techniques, laws and regulations for hazardous waste control. In Fiscal Year
  2008, the types of activities that are permitted to be funded include: hiring staff,
  administrative salaries, clerical help, financial accounting, data management,
  program management, medical monitoring, health and safety training for field
  employees, computer systems purchases, training, legal assistance and legislative
  development. Outputs include reports, accounting and tracking systems, hired
  and trained staff, cost recovery procedures and techniques, laws and regulations
  for hazardous waste control.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  40 CFR 31, 40 CFR Part 35, Subpart O, Program Guidance Documents.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Angelo Carasea, State, Tribe and Site Identification Branch, Assessment and
  Remediation Division, Office of Superfund Remediation and Technology
