  Innovation, Mail Code 5204P, EPA, Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (703)             
  603-8828. E-mail: carasea.angelo@epa.gov. Fax: (703)603-8828.                        
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.epa.gov/superfund                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  66.802, Superfund State, Political Subdivision, and Indian Tribe Site_Specific       
  Cooperative Agreements.                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Administrative and program development, accounting systems development,              
  legal authorities and enforcement support, hiring and training of State response     
  staff, procedures for emergency response actions.                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  For Core Program Cooperative Agreements, recipients must demonstrate a need          
  for non-site specific funds to support activities not covered by other site-specific 
  awards. Each project is examined and selected on a case-by-case basis based          
  upon availability of funds, receipt of application, and other criteria as            
  determined by EPA.                                                                   
                                                                                       
66.810 CHEMICAL EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND                                             
                                                                                       
PREVENTION (CEPP) TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS                                          
PROGRAM                                                                                
   (CAA 112 and SARA Title III State Grants Program)                                   
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT, OFFICE OF SOLID WASTE                                
  AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION                                     
  AGENCY                                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Clean Air Act Section 103 (b)(3) and Section 112 (l)(4); Toxic Substances            
  Control Act, Sections 10(a), and 28(a), Public Law 94-469, 15 U.S.C. 2601 et         
  seq.                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide financial assistance to States, Local agencies, and Indian Tribes for     
  chemical accident prevention activities that relate to the Risk Management           
  Program under the Clean Air Act Section 112(r). To provide financial assistance      
  to Tribes for chemical emergency planning, and community right-to-know               
  programs which are established to prevent or eliminate unreasonable risk to the      
  health and environment of communities within the State. Funding Priority -           
  Fiscal Year 2008: (1)Capacity Building: Increase capacity at the State, Tribe, or    
  local level to implement and enforce the Chemical Accident Prevention                
  provisions of the Clean Air Act Section 112(r) and to integrate chemical             
  accident prevention activities; chemical emergency planning efforts, and             
  community right-to-know programs. (2) Community Issues: Development of               
  model technical assistance materials for use by States/Tribes or Local               
  Emergency Planning Committees (LEPCs) to evaluate potential chemical risks           
  to their communities and to take appropriate prevention and preparedness steps       
  to protect the community. (3) Partnerships: Strengthening partnerships among         
  States/Tribes and Local Emergency Planning Committees (LEPCs), industry,             
  emergency responders, and the general public to foster collaboration and build       
                                                                                       
  credibility for chemical prevention and preparedness activities. Funding Priority

                                                                                       
  - Fiscal Year 2009: (1)Capacity Building: Increase capacity at the State, Tribe,

                                                                                       
  or local level to implement and enforce the Chemical Accident Prevention

                                                                                       
  provisions of the Clean Air Act Section 112(r) and to integrate chemical

                                                                                       
  accident prevention activities; chemical emergency planning efforts, and

                                                                                       
  community right-to-know programs. (2) Community Issues: Development of

                                                                                       
  model technical assistance materials for use by States/Tribes or Local

                                                                                       
  Emergency Planning Committees (LEPCs) to evaluate potential chemical risks

                                                                                       
  to their communities and to take appropriate prevention and preparedness steps

                                                                                       
  to protect the community. (3) Partnerships: Strengthening partnerships among

                                                                                       
  States/Tribes and Local Emergency Planning Committees (LEPCs), industry,             
  emergency responders, and the general public to foster collaboration and build       
  credibility for chemical prevention and preparedness activities.                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Innovative Technical Assistance Grants are offered to improve the ability of

                                                                                       
  States, Tribes and local communities to protect public health and safety and

                                                                                       
  involve the development of technical assistance or similar materials that could

                                                                                       
  be used directly or adapted by other States/Tribes or Local Emergency Planning

                                                                                       
  Committees (LEPCs). Projects which address implementing the Risk

                                                                                       
  Management Program under the Clean Air Act Section 112(r) are especially of          
  interest. The grant money may not supplant State or Tribal funds already being       
  spent. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to       
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information         
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  States, Local agencies District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Island,        
  Northern Mariana Islands, and Federally Recognized Indian Tribes. For certain        


                                                                                  11-08
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, Tribes, Local Emergency Planning Committees, and local emergency
  responders.
Credentials/Documentation:
  OMB Circular No. A-87 is required for this program.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. Potential applicants should contact the CEPP
  Regional contact listed below to determine if grants are available in a specific
  Region. The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and
  required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  States, Local agencies, and Indian Tribes must submit the original completed
  application package and one copy to the appropriate EPA Regional Office. The
  Regional office will review the application package to ensure completeness.
  States must comply with all applicable requirements. Applicants may be able to
  use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
  Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for
  competing assistance agreements. Grant applications will undergo the following
  review process: EPA Regional Office staff will evaluate each application and,
  based on the criteria established will select proposal(s) for funding. EPA
  Regional offices will be awarding the grants. The review process will
  concentrate on choosing the best project concepts. Once the grant is awarded to
  the State Emergency Response Commission (SERC), Tribal Emergency
  Response Commission (TERC), directly to the local agencies such as the Local
  Emergency Planning Committee (LEPC), or other State agency with SERC
  coordination as appropriate, the recipient will be notified by phone or email.
  EPA will monitor the work in progress and provide project guidance and
  oversight to the State, Local agencies, and Tribes.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Regional Office, as appropriate, for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. There is a 25 percent match requirement
  for assistance agreements awarded to States under the Toxic Substances Control
  Act, Section 28.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants will normally be funded on a 12 to 24 month basis. Total approved
  project period should not exceed 2 years for a particular project. A call for letters
  of intent and applications will be advertised annually via the Regions notifying
  States, Local agencies, and Tribes. Recipients will be notified by phone call or
  email that their proposal will be funded. The grants may be awarded in a lump
  sum.
Reports:
  Reports will be required on a quarterly basis to describe applicant's progress.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
                                                                                    1027
