  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in       
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:                                                                               
  Financial reports, including all documents to support entries on the accounting      
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant or cooperative agreement must      
  be kept available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant recipient             
  accounts. All records must be maintained for 3 years from the date of the            
  submission of the annual financial status report. If questions still remain, such as 
  those raised as a result of audit, related records should be retained until the      
  matter is completely resolved.                                                       
Account Identification:                                                                
  EPM 68-0108-0-1-304.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $100,000; FY 08 est. $90,000; and FY 09 est. $90,000.                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $25,000 to $75,000; an average of approximately $50,000 for a one year award.        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  During fiscal year 2007, 4 grant applications were received and 2 awards were        
  made to a State and to a Tribe for chemical accident prevention and                  
  preparedness. The State will focus on compliance assistance site visits to RMP       
  facilities and maintain tracking database. The tribe will preform an inventory of    
  facilities and hazardous chemicals, identify and document location of materials      
  and facilities, and design and implement outreach programs to focus on safe          
  storage and use of chemicals. For FY 2008, it is anticipated that no more than 2     
  grants will be awarded for conducting and promoting activities associated with       
  the Clean Air Act program in the area of Chemical Accident Prevention,               
  Preparedness and Response. Activities may include RMP facility inspections,          
  data analysis community safety outreach, and hazardous materials exercises. For      
  FY 2008, we anticipate 3 to 4 applications. These grants are in support of Goal      
  4: Healthy Communities and Ecosystems, and the outcomes for these projects           
  are defined and include Chemical Organism and Pesticide Risk reduction at            
  facilities. For FY 2009, again we estimate 2 awards and 3 - 4 applications.          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements            
  to States and Local Government (40 CFR Part 31).                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Any inquiries, contact the CEPP Coordinators as listed in Appendix IV of the         
  Catalog.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Sherry Fielding, Grant Program Manager, OSWER/OEM/POCD (5104A), EPA                  
  HQ, Ariel Rios Building, 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Washington, DC                
  20460. Telephone: (202) 564-6174, Fax: (202) 564-8211                                
  fielding.sherry@epa.gov.                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.epa.gov/emergencies.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Development of a comprehensive implementation and enforcement strategy for           
  an accidental release prevention program which includes how the 112(r)               
  program will be integrated with other State and Local programs; Development of       
  Legislative authority, regulations, and/or documentation needed for approval of      
  a 112(r) program for State or Local accident prevention for all sources or for       
  some sources; Educational Videos: Each video describes to the viewer where the       
  specific hazardous substance may be found in the community and potential             
  business types that would and would not need to comply; Hazardous                    
  Vulnerability Analysis Plan: Describes the geographic area of the Tribe, the         
  potential hazards facing the Tribe, and the emergency response                       
  capabilities/services available; Educational or Outreach materials that promotes     
  112(r) program integration with other State and Local programs .                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA         
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                       
                                                                                       
66.812 HAZARDOUS WASTE MANAGEMENT GRANT                                                
PROGRAM FOR TRIBES                                                                     
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF SOLID WASTE, OFFICE OF SOLID WASTE AND                                     
  EMERGENCY RESPONSE, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Department of Veterans Affairs and Housing and Urban Development and                 
  Independent Agencies Appropriation Act, Public Law 105-276; 112 Stat. 2461,          
  2499 (1998).                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The purpose of the Hazardous Waste Management Grant Program for Tribes is            
  to provide financial assistance to Tribal governments and Tribal Consortia for       


1028                                                                             11-08

  the development and implementation of hazardous waste programs; for building
  capacity to improve and maintain regulatory compliance; and for developing
  solutions to address hazardous waste impacting Tribal lands. Funding Priority -
  Fiscal Year 2008: Develop and implement hazardous waste management
  programs that improve the applicant's ability to properly identify, manage, or
  dispose of hazardous waste. Build capacity to improve and maintain regulatory
  compliance and develop solutions to address hazardous waste mismanagement
  impacting Tribal lands. Development and institutionalization of hazardous waste
  program capacity for Tribal governments and the communities they serve.
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Develop and implement hazardous waste
  management programs that improve the applicant's ability to properly identify,
  manage, or dispose of hazardous waste. Build capacity to improve and maintain
  regulatory compliance and develop solutions to address hazardous waste
  mismanagement impacting Tribal lands. Development and institutionalization of
  hazardous waste program capacity for Tribal governments and the communities
  they serve.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This grant program will support projects designed to develop and implement
  hazardous waste management programs. These programs must improve the
  applicant's ability to properly identify, manage, or dispose of hazardous waste.
  All hazardous waste management activities that address the Resource
  Conservation and Recovery Act (RCRA) Subtitle C "cradle to grave" approach
  are eligible. Each of the following hazardous waste management program
  activities are considered central to a "cradle to grave" program: Hazardous
  Waste Identification; Hazardous Waste Generator Siting, Monitoring, &
  Compliance (Large Quantity, Small Quantity, and Conditionally Exempt Small
  Quantity Generators); Hazardous Waste Minimization, Recycling, Used Oil, and
  Universal Wastes; Hazardous Waste Transportation; Treatment, Storage, and
  Disposal Facility Siting, Permitting, Monitoring, Corrective Action, &
  Enforcement; Land Disposal Restrictions; Combustion. Assistance will be
  provided under this program only for activities which EPA determines are
  appropriate to carry out the purposes of RCRA. Assistance under this program
  does not include any element of municipal solid waste management, chemical
  emergency planning and preparedness or superfund program cleanup.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The following are eligible to receive financial assistance: (a) an Indian tribal
  government; and (b) an intertribal consortium or consortia. An Indian tribal
  government is any tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community,
  including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation (as
  defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,
  43 U.S.C. 1601, et seq.), which is recognized by the U.S. Department of the
  Interior as eligible for the special services provided by the United States to
  Indians because of their status as Indians. A consortium is a partnership between
  two or more Indian tribal governments authorized by the governing bodies of
  those tribes to apply for and receive assistance under this program. For certain
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Government.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No.A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. Potential applicants should consult the designated
  Regional Tribal hazardous waste program coordinator. It is strongly suggested
  that potential applicants consult with the designated Regional point of contact.
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The annual competitive announcement outlines specific procedures for
  submitting proposals. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Regional Tribal Hazardous Waste Program Coordinator for specific
  application deadlines.
