  To support grants and cooperative agreements for (1) a program of research,          
  evaluation, testing, development, and demonstration of alternative or innovative     
  treatment technologies which may be utilized in response actions to achieve          
  more permanent protection of human health and welfare and the environment;           
  (2) a technology transfer program including the development, collection,             
  evaluation, coordination, and dissemination of information relating to the           
  utilization of alternative or innovative treatment technologies for response         
  actions; (3) a program of training and evaluation of training needs in the           
  procedures for the handling and removal of hazardous substances for employees        
  who handle hazardous substances and training in the management of facilities at      
  which hazardous substances are located and in the evaluation of the hazards to       
  human health presented by such facilities for State and local health and             
  environmental agency personnel, and (4) a program of research with respect to        
  the detection, assessment, and evaluation of the effects on and risks to human       
  health of hazardous substances and detection of hazardous substances in the          
  environment. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Assistance to (1) support The      
  State Coalition For The Remediation of Drycleaners; (2) to conduct research          
  with respect to the detection, assessment, and evaluation of the effects on, and     
  risks to, human health from hazardous substances and detection of hazardous          
  substances in the environment, as related to states and territories; (3) to increase 
  the county officials' capacity to identify, assess, finance, revitalize and manage   
  over time contaminated or potentially contaminated properties; (4) to host           
  technical conferences and trainings for non federal personnel on innovative and      
  alternative treatment technologies; and, (5) to support interstate teams that        
  evaluate innovative and alternative treatment and characterization technologies      
  for hazardous site remediation. Funding Priority - Fiscal year 2009: 1)To            
  support the Removal Action Focus Group with research on resources,                   
  capabilities and successes of State removal and environmental emergency              
  response programs to participate in Superfund large-scale emergencies. 2)To          
  produce information that States will use to improve and enhance the practices        
  relative to the assessment, remediation, and long-term stewardship activities        
  conducted at Superfund sites. 3)The recipient will host technical conferences        
  and training events for non federal personnel on innovative and alternative          
  treatment technologies.                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' eligible      
  and allowable direct costs incurred under an approved work plan plus allowable       
  indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and regulations.         
  Funds awarded under Section 311(b)(3) of CERCLA must be used for projects            
  relating to innovative or alternative treatment technologies that may be utilized    
  in response actions to achieve more permanent protection of human health and         
  welfare and the environment. Types of discrete projects may include: land use        
  controls research; health effects in construction workers; studies of above          
  ground storage tank inspection practices; remediation technologies and               
  strategies; and support for State forums to share information on research on         
  hazardous substances waste remediation. Funding awarded for research under           
  CERCLA 311(c) does not include research within the purview of EPA's Office           
  of Research and Development. Assistance agreement awards under this program          
  may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding       
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:             
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States, territories, Indian  
  Tribes, and possessions of the U.S., including the District of Columbia, public      
  and private universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, other public or      
  private nonprofit institutions, and individuals. In some instances, EPA will         
  consider applications from profit makers, proposing projects with significant        
  technical merit and relevance to EPA's Office of Solid Waste and Emergency           
  Response. Nonprofit organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal     
  Revenue Code that engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3 of the       
  Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not eligible to apply. For certain               
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency            
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants        
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State and local governments, U.S. territories and possessions, Indian Tribes,        
  universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories, industry, and other public and   
  private institutions and individuals.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  EPA may request that applicants document their nonprofit status. The Agency          
  may also request that applicants demonstrate they have appropriate background,       
  academic training, experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out     
  projects. EPA may ask applicants or principle investigators to provide               
  curriculum vitae and relevant publications.                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Applicants considering submitting proposals are advised to discuss proposed          
  projects with or submit pre-applications to staff in the appropriate EPA technical   
  program offices. When making competitive awards, EPA will specify the nature         


1030                                                                             11-08

  of the pre-application assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in the
  Requests for Initial Proposals or Requests for Applications. For information
  contacts, see Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program
  for review. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to
  competitive funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will
  generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if
  any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For
  additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts"
  or see Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,
  Grants Administration Division, 3903R, Washington, DC 20460 or through the
  appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
  Requests for Initial Proposals or Requests for Applications will specify
  application procedures. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For non-competitive awards, EPA will conduct an administrative evaluation to
  determine the adequacy of the application in relation to grant regulations and to
  technical and program evaluation to determine the merit and relevance of the
  project. The Agency will then advise the applicant if funding is being
  considered. A final work plan will then be negotiated with the applicant. For
  competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  For competitive awards, deadlines will be specified in the Request for
  Applications or Request for Initial Proposals.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  For non-competitive awards: Disputes will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or
  40 CFR 31.70, as applicable. For competitive awards: Assistance agreement
  competition-related disputes will be resolved in accordance with the dispute
  resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal Register) 3629, 3630
  (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also be requested by
  contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts." Disputes relating
  to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients will be resolved
  under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. EPA may incrementally fund grants and cooperative agreements under
  this program. Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on
  satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of the project to EPA's
  priorities, and availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  EPA's Appropriation Act requires that applicants submitting unsolicited research
  grant and cooperative agreement proposals share in the cost of conducting
  research. The amount of the cost share will be based on the mutuality of interest
  between the Government and the applicant. This requirement cannot be waived
  by EPA. In addition, CERCLA 311(b)(3) requires that EPA, "to the maximum
  extent possible", enter into an appropriate cost sharing arrangement with
  recipients of grants and cooperative agreements relating to innovative and
  alternative treatment technologies EPA may waive the 311(b)(3) cost sharing
  requirement in appropriate cases. This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  EPA generally funds grants and cooperative agreements in a lump sum on a 12-
  month basis. However, EPA can negotiate the project period with each applicant
  based on project requirements. Incremental funding may be available. EPA
  generally limits project periods to 5 years. The Office of Congressional Liaison
  is notified of the award. They in turn notify the appropriate House and Senate
  members that the assistance agreement has been awarded. This notification
  period lasts 5. After the 5 Day Congressional notification period, the original
  award document will be sent to the recipient. A copy of the award document will
  be sent to the Project Officer and the Las Vegas Financial Management Center
  or the Regions Financial Management Office.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are identified at 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31. EPA may
  include additional information regarding the content and frequency of reporting
  requirements in the terms and conditions of the agreements.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
