  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.        
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each         
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,

  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in      
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofits and                 
  universities) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable depending       
  upon the identity of the recipient. EPA may require that for profit recipients      
  follow 40 CFR Part 30. Financial records, including all documents to support        
  entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes to each grant must be     
  kept available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All           
  records must be maintained until expiration of three years from the date of         
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as      
  those raised as a result of audit, related records must be retained until the matter
  is completely resolved.                                                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  20-8145-0-7-304.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $1,711,400; FY 08 $315,190; and FY 09 est. $2,000,000.                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  For each fiscal year it is $20,000 - $450,000, Average $320,000.                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Technical conferences and training events for nonfederal personnel on               
  innovative and alternative treatment technologies; to conduct research with         
  respect to the detection, assessment, and evaluation of the effects on, and risks   
  to, human health from hazardous substances and detection of hazardous               
  substances in the environment, as related to states and territories; and, to        
  increase the county official's capacity to identify, assess, finance, revitalize and
  manage over time contaminated or potentially contaminated properties. In FY 07      
  there were five awards, and in FY 08 three.                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Alternative or innovative treatment technology and hazardous substance research     
  grants are subject to EPA's General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40        
  CFR Part 31). Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No.          
  A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-         
  21 for educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit               
  institutions, and FAR Part 31 for profit makers.                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA

                                                                                      
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters

                                                                                      
  program contacts listed below.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  For information on grant applications and procedures, contact: Environmental

                                                                                      
  Protection Agency, Grants Administration Division, 3903R, Washington, DC            
  20460. For program information contact: Barbara McDonough, Contracts                
  Management Branch, Resources Management Division Office of Superfund                
  Remediation and Technology Innovation, USEPA (5202-P), 1200 Pennsylvania            
  Ave., N.W.,Washington, DC 20460. E-mail: mcdonough.barbara@epa.gov,                 
  Telephone: (703) 603-9042, Fax: (703) 603-9133.                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/superfund/index.htm.                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  66.808, Solid Waste Management Assistance Grants; 66.814, Brownfields

                                                                                      
  Training, Research, and Technical Assistance Grants and Cooperative

                                                                                      
  Agreements; 66.815, Brownfield Job Training Cooperative Agreements.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  Land use controls research; estimating soil ingestion in construction workers;

                                                                                      
  study of state and territorial above ground storage tank inspection practices;

                                                                                      
  State support for forums to discuss and share experiences on remediation

                                                                                      
  technologies and strategies; and support for State forums to share information on

                                                                                      
  research on waste remediation.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  Competitive applications and proposals will be selected in accordance with

                                                                                      
  announced criteria. Non-competitive proposals are judged for (a) technical merit

                                                                                      
  in terms of: (1) strengths and weaknesses of the project; (2) adequacy of overall

                                                                                      
  project design; (3) competency of proposed staff; (4) suitability of applicant's

                                                                                      
  available resources; (5) appropriateness of the proposed project period and

                                                                                      
  budget; and (6) probability that the project will accomplish stated objectives;

                                                                                      
  and, for (b) program interest in terms of: (1) the need for the proposed project;

                                                                                      
  and (2) relationship to program objectives. The evaluation and selection criteria

                                                                                      
  for competitive awards under this CFDA description will be described in the

                                                                                      
  competitive announcement.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      




                                                                                 11-08
66.814 BROWNFIELDS TRAINING, RESEARCH, AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF BROWNFIELDS AND LAND REVITALIZATION, OFFICE OF
  SOLID WASTE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE, ENVIRONMENTAL
  PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act,
  Sections 101(39) and 104(k)(6), as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9604(k)(6).
OBJECTIVES:
  CERCLA 104(k)(6) provides EPA with authority for a program of training,
  research, and technical assistance to individuals and organizations to facilitate
  the inventory of brownfields properties, assessments, cleanup of brownfields
  properties, community involvement, or site preparation. Brownfield sites are real
  property, the expansion, redevelopment, or reuse of which may be complicated
  by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or
  contaminant. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: EPA may solicit proposals
  for training, research, and technical assistance and will incrementally fund
  projects with satisfactory project progress selected in previous 104(k)(6)
  training, research, and technical assistance competition.The Agency gives
  preference to the ten statutory ranking criteria, as applicable, found at CERCLA
  104(k)(5)(C) (see CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS, below) when
  evaluating applications for research, training and technical assistance funding.
  EPA, in addition to the statutory criteria, also evaluates applicants based on their
  ability to manage grants and other policy based factors intended to promote
  effective stewardship of Federal funds.Annual Funding Priorities: By statute,
  25% of the funding for CERCLA 104(k), must be used for characterization,
  assessment, and remediation of Brownfields sites contaminated by petroleum or
  petroleum products. No more than 15 percent of the funding appropriated for
  CERCLA 104(k) grants may be used to fund training, research, and technical
  assistance grants authorized by CERCLA 104(k)(6). EPA expects to support
  brownfields training, research, and technical assistance related to the following
  categories: (1) community involvement, (2) health impacts of brownfields sites,
  (3) science and technology relating to brownfields assessment, remediation, and
  site preparation, (4) integrated approaches to brownfields cleanup and
  redevelopment, (5) economics of brownfields cleanup and redevelopment, (6)
  results analysis, and (7) state, local and tribal government brownfields programs.
  For certain competitive funding opportunities, the Agency may limit eligibility
  to a particular subset of eligible applicants. The amount of financial assistance
  will vary, with the funding amount expected to be between $50,000 and
  $300,000 per grant. Competitive funding opportunities, the Agency may limit
  eligibility to a particular subset of eligible applicants. The amount of financial
  assistance will vary, with the funding amount expected to be between $50,000
  and $300,000 per grant.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds awarded under Section 104(k)(6) of CERCLA must be used for training,
  research, and technical assistance to individuals and organizations, to facilitate
  the inventory of brownfields properties, site assessments, cleanup of brownfields
  properties, community involvement, or site preparation. Grants and cooperative
  agreements are available to support recipients' eligible and allowable direct costs
  incurred under an approved work plan plus allowable programmatic costs, in
  accordance with established EPA policies and regulations. Costs incurred under
  CERCLA 104(k)(6) grants or cooperative agreements may not be used for an
  administrative cost, penalty or fine, a Federal cost-share requirement, a response
  cost for which the recipient of the grant or cooperative agreement is potentially
  liable under CERCLA 107, or the cost of complying with a Federal law, with the
  exception of the costs of laws applicable to cleanup of Brownfields sites.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A general purpose unit of local government; a land clearance authority or other
  quasi-governmental entity that operates under the supervision and control of, or
  as an agent of, a general purpose unit of local government; a government entity
  created by a State legislature; a regional council or group of general purpose
  units of local government; a redevelopment agency that is chartered or otherwise
  sanctioned by a State; a State; an Indian Tribe other than in Alaska; an Alaska
  Native Regional Corporation, Alaska Native Village Corporation and the
  Metlakatla Indian Community. Nonprofit organizations are also eligible for
  training, research, and technical assistance grants. Nonprofit organizations must
  meet the definition of that term in Section 4(6) of the Federal Financial
  Assistance Management Improvement Act of 1999, Public Law 96-107, 31
  U.S.C. 6101 Note. Under this definition, colleges, universities, and community
  colleges are eligible to apply. However, nonprofit organizations described in
  Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying
  activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not
  eligible to apply. For profit organizations are not eligible to apply. For certain
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency
                                                                                   1031
