  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants       
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State, Tribal - an Indian Tribe other than in Alaska; an Alaska Native Regional     
  Corporation, Alaska Native Village Corporation and the Metlakatla Indian            
  Community, and local governments, communities with Brownfields sites and            
  their residents, community groups, universities and colleges, industry, and other   
  public and private institutions and individuals.                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  EPA may request that applicants document their non-profit status. The Agency        
  may also request that applicants demonstrate they have appropriate background,      
  academic training, and experience in the field to carry out projects. EPA may       
  ask applicants for research projects to provide curriculum vitae and relevant       
  publications.                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive       
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify    
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be     
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional             
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see      
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.         
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should          
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or  
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in  
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. See      
  Appendix 1 for additional information regarding SPOC's. If there is no single       
  point of contact for the state, or the state has not selected this program for      
  review, applicants must contact directly affected state area-wide regional and      
  local entities prior to award. (See 40 CFR 29.7(b)).                                
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required      
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA              
  requires final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for           
  application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,          
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 3903R, Washington,           
  DC 20460 or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix          
  IV of the Catalog. This is a competitive grant program. Requests for Initial        
  Proposals or Requests for Applications will specify application procedures.         
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for     
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  EPA is required by statute to conduct this assistance program competitively. For    
  competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,           
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated    
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance       
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines will be specified in Request for Applications or Request for Initial      
  Proposals. Contact: Office of Brownfields and Land Revitalization, OSWER,           
  EPA, Washington, DC 20460, David Lloyd, Director. Telephone: (202) 566-             
  2777.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 180 days.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                              
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in               
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal       
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also        
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."      
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients     
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                 
Renewals:                                                                             
  EPA may incrementally fund grants and cooperative agreements under this             
  program. Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on                  
  satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of the project to EPA's          
  priorities, and availability of funds. Incremental funding is subject to review and 
  approval by the Office of Brownfields and Land Revitalization, Office of Solid      
  Waste and Emergency Response. The funded grants and cooperative agreements          
  are not eligible for renewal.                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  For training, research and technical assistance grants, EPA will not require that   
  applicants include a match or cost share unless required by the terms of a          
  competitive announcement. Even if EPA decides not to require matching funds,        
  a statutory factor in ranking applications under Section 104(k)(6) is the extent to 
  which EPA financial assistance will stimulate the availability of other funds for   
  environmental assessment or remediation, and subsequent reuse of Brownfields        
  sites. Applicants may be encouraged to provide information regarding resources      
  (cash/in-kind services) that they, or a project partner, would commit to efforts    
  receiving EPA financial assistance. This program has no statutory formula.          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  EPA generally funds grants and cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis.          


1032                                                                            11-08

  However, EPA can negotiate the project period with each applicant based on
  project requirements. Incremental funding may be available. EPA generally
  limits project periods for training, research and technical assistance grants to 5
  years.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are identified at 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31. EPA may
  include additional information regarding the content and frequency of reporting
  requirements in the terms and conditions of the agreements.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (non-profits and
  universities) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable depending
  upon the identity of the recipient. Financial records, including all documents to
  support entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes to each grant
  must be kept available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts.
  All records must be maintained until expiration of three years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as
  those raised as a result of audit, related records must be retained until the matter
  is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $2,669,376; FY 08 est. $3,000,000; and FY 09 est. $3,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  (FY 07) $94,701 to $625,000; Average $190,669.71. The performance period
  for these grants ranges from two to five years.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, EPA solicited proposals for training, research, and technical assistance
  focused on tribal issues, particularly providing assistance to tribal communities
  with abandoned drug labs. EPA selected a proposal for funding with an award
  of $100,000 per year for up to 3 years. In FY 07, EPA provided incremental
  funding to projects awarded in previous years. The ongoing grants provided
  training, community education and technical assistance to support brownfields
  assessment and cleanup efforts by State, local and tribal governments,
  communities, nonprofit organizations and private sector entities. The grants also
  resulted in research reports, case studies, and documents assisting communities
  with brownfields projects. In FY 08, EPA solicited proposals for training,
  research, and technical assistance to support geographically based technical
  assistance centers. EPA selected four proposals with an award of $200,000 per
  year for up to 5 years each. In FY 08, EPA solicited proposals for training,
  research, and technical assistance focused on protecting health and the
  environment, sustainable development, and equitable development. EPA
  anticipates selecting 5-10 proposals with an award of up $300,000 per year for
  up to 5 years each. In FY 08, EPA provided incremental funding to projects
  awarded in previous years. The ongoing grants provided training, community
  education and technical assistance to support brownfields assessment and
  cleanup efforts by State, local and tribal governments, communities, nonprofit
  organizations and private sector entities. The grants also resulted in research
  reports, case studies, and documents assisting communities with brownfields
  projects.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Brownfields training, research, and technical assistance grants are subject to
  EPA's General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR Part 31). Costs
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and
  local governments and Indian Tribes, OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational
  institutions, and OMB Circular No. A-122 for non-profit institutions. EPA will
  provide applicants with guidance on statutory prohibitions on the use of grant
  and cooperative agreement funds in Requests for Initial Proposals, Requests for
  Applications, or by other means. EPA will provide assistance regarding
  clarification of the grant proposal guidelines. Potential applicants may submit
  written requests to OBCR for clarification. Significant clarifications to the
  guidelines will be posted on the brownfields website
  http://www.epa.gov/brownfields. This is the only form of pre-application
  assistance available. EPA will not meet with applicants to discuss draft
  proposals or provide informal comments on proposals.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  For program information contact: Office of Brownfields and Land
