  Revitalization, OSWER, EPA, Washington, DC 20460, David Lloyd,Director.            
  Telephone: (202) 566-2777; Fax: (202) 566-1476; E-mail:                            
  lloyd.davidr@epa.gov.                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/brownfields.                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  66.815, Brownfield Job Training Cooperative Agreements; 66.817, State and          
  Tribal Response Program Grants; 66.818, Brownfields Assessment and Cleanup         
  Cooperative Agreements.                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  EPA has funded cooperative agreements for a variety of training, research, and     
  technical assistance activities including: introductory training for communities   
  new to brownfields activities; a brownfields resource guide for rural and small    
  communities; research into brownfields-related job creation and job training;      
  technical assistance linking brownfields redevelopment to improved health care     
  access; case studies on state program best practices; reports on the use of        
  insurance in brownfields projects; and national conference calls providing         
  training and technical assistance to brownfields communities.                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  This is a competitive grant program. The evaluation and selection criteria for     
  competitive awards under this CFDA description will be described in the            
  competitive announcement.                                                          
                                                                                     
66.815 BROWNFIELD JOB TRAINING COOPERATIVE                                           
                                                                                     
AGREEMENTS                                                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF BROWNFIELDS AND LAND REVITALIZATION, OFFICE OF                           
  SOLID WASTE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE, ENVIRONMENTAL                                  
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  The Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act          
  (CERCLA) of 1980, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9604(k)(6), Sections 101(39) and           
  104(k)6).                                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To recruit, train, and place unemployed and under-employed residents of            
  brownfields-impacted communities, and by doing so, providing individuals of        
  these communities with the skills needed to obtain sustainable employment in       
  brownfields redevelopment and environmental related careers. By doing so, the      
  Brownfields Job Training Program promotes the facilitation of assessment,          
  remediation, or preparation of brownfield sites. A brownfield site is "real        
  property, the expansion, redevelopment, or reuse of which may be complicated       
  by the presence or potential presence of a hazardous substance, pollutant, or      
  contaminant," as defined in Section 101(39) of the Comprehensive                   
  Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended        
  (CERCLA, or Superfund). The law further defines the term "brownfield site" to      
  include a site that "is contaminated by a controlled substance...; is contaminated 
  by petroleum or a petroleum product excluded from the definition of 'hazardous     
  substance'...; or is mine-scarred land." Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: EPA  
  expects to solicit proposals on an annual basis. Greater weight will be given to   
  those applicants that exhibit comprehensive plans to leverage funding to develop   
  an integrated job training program, those who demonstrate experience in            
  providing job training and other job training services, and applicants who meet    
  the ranking criteria outlined in Section "Criteria For Selecting Proposals" of this
  CFDA. Annual Funding Priorities: No more than 15 percent of the funding            
  appropriated for CERCLA 104(k) grants may be used to fund research, training       
  and technical assistance grants authorized by CERCLA 104(k)(6). By statute, 25     
  percent of the funding appropriated for CERCLA 104(k) grants must be used for      
  characterization, assessment, and remediation of Brownfields sites contaminated    
  by petroleum or petroleum products. The Agency must also give preference to        
  the ten statutory ranking criteria found at CERCLA 104(k)(5)(C) when               
  evaluating applications for funding. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: EPA      
  expects to solicit proposals on an annual basis. Greater weight will be given to   
  those applicants who meet the ranking criteria outlined in "Criteria For Selecting 
  Proposals" of this CFDA including those who demonstrate experience in              
  providing job training recruitment and placement services and environmental        
  remediation knowledge, community involvement and employer partnerships, an         
  ability to leverage nongovernmental funding, prior experience in managing and      
  reporting upon federal grants, a demonstration of community need and               
  environmental justice issues, and performance measurement strategies. Annual       
  Funding Priorities: No more than 15 percent of the funding appropriated for        
  CERCLA 104(k) grants may be used to fund research, training and technical          
  assistance grants authorized by CERCLA 104(k)(6). By statute, 25 percent of        
  the funding appropriated for CERCLA 104(k) grants must be used for                 
  characterization, assessment, and remediation of Brownfields sites contaminated    
  by petroleum or petroleum products. The Agency must also give preference to        
  the ten statutory ranking criteria found at CERCLA 104(k)(5)(C) when               
  evaluating applications for funding.                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
                                                                                11-08
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds awarded under Section 104(k)(6) of CERCLA must be used for training,
  research, and technical assistance to individuals and organizations, to facilitate
  the inventory of brownfields properties, site assessments, cleanup of brownfields
  properties, community involvement, or site preparation. However, for
  brownfields job training grants, individuals are not eligible to apply. (See
  "Eligibility Requirements"). Grants and cooperative agreements are available to
  eligible entities throughout the United States. However, eligible applicants must
  propose to serve a community that currently receives, or has received, financial
  assistance for brownfields assessment, revolving loan fund, cleanup, State or
  tribal site-specific response program work, and/or targeted brownfield
  assessment grants. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve
  or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial
  information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov. Grants and cooperative agreements are available to
  support recipients' eligible and allowable direct costs incurred under an
  approved work plan plus allowable programmatic costs, in accordance with
  established EPA policies and regulations. Costs incurred under CERCLA
  104(k)(6) grant or cooperative agreements may not be used for an administrative
  cost, penalty or fine, a Federal cost-share requirement, a response cost for which
  the recipient of the grant or cooperative agreement is potentially liable under
  CERCLA 107, or the cost of complying with a Federal law, with the exception
  of the costs of laws applicable to cleanup of Brownfields sites.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Proposals will be accepted from either eligible governmental entities as defined
  in CERCLA Section 104(k)(1) or eligible nonprofit organizations as defined in
  Public Law 106-107, the Federal Financial Assistance Management
  Improvement Act. Eligible governmental entities include a general purpose local
  unit of government; a land clearance authority or other quasi-governmental
  entity that operates under the supervision and control of, or as an agent of, a
  general purpose unit of government; a governmental entity created by a State
  legislature; a regional council or group of general purpose units of local
  government; a redevelopment agency that is chartered or otherwise sanctioned
  by a State; an Indian Tribe (other than in Alaska), or an Alaskan Native
  Regional Corporation and an Alaska Native Village Corporation as those terms
  are defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act (43 U.S.C. 1601 and
  following); and the Metlakatla Indian Community. Intertribal consortia, except
  consortia comprised of ineligible Alaskan tribes, are eligible to apply as well.
  Eligible nonprofit organizations include any corporation, trust, association,
  cooperative, or other organization that is operated mainly for scientific,
  educational, service, charitable, or similar purpose in the public interest; is not
  organized primarily for profit; and uses net proceeds to maintain, improve, or
  expand the operation of the organization. Workforce Investment Boards that
  meet these criteria may be eligible nonprofit organizations. Public and nonprofit
  private educational institutions are eligible to apply. However, nonprofit
  organizations described in Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that
  engage in lobbying activities as defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure
  Act of 1995 are not eligible to apply. For-profit or proprietary training
  organizations or trade schools are not eligible to apply. Evidence of current
  nonprofit status under Federal, state or tribal law must be provided at the time
  the proposal is submitted. For certain competitive funding opportunities under
  this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number
  or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance
  Agreement Competition Policy. Applicants that received a Brownfields Job
  Training grant from EPA in Fiscal Year 2008 (announced March 2008) are not
  eligible to apply in FY 09. A list of brownfields job training grants awarded in
  Fiscal Year 2008 can be found on the Brownfields Website,
  http://www.epa.gov/brownfields/pilot.htm#previous. However, applicants who
  received a brownfields job training grant in or before FY 07 are eligible to apply
  for this competition. Applicants must also demonstrate that their proposed
  project will not duplicate other federally-funded job training programs in their
  target area. For example, applicants must demonstrate that the proposed training
  project does not duplicate National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences
  hazardous waste worker training programs in their target community. If an
  applicant is listed as a recipient of an NIEHS job training grant, the applicant
  must demonstrate how services under this proposed project will complement but
  not duplicate existing federal job training activities in the target community and
  area. All applicants must also include OSHA 29 CFR 1910.120 40-hour
  Hazardous Waste Operations and Emergency Response (HAZWOPER) training
  as part of their proposed training curriculums. All curriculums must include this
  training and be provided to all individuals entering training. Please visit the
  following website for more details: http://www.osha.gov/pls/oshaweb/.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Job training grants will provide environmental job training and help individuals
  of brownfields neighborhoods take advantage of job opportunities created as a
  result of the assessment and cleanup of brownfields properties. In addition, this
  program benefits industry by increasing the supply of skilled labor for firms that
  engage in environmental assessment and cleanup.
Credentials/Documentation:
  EPA requires that applicants document their nonprofit status at the time of
                                                                                  1033
