  application. The Agency may also request that applicants demonstrate that they       
  have appropriate background, academic training, experience in fields, and            
  necessary equipment to carry out training projects.                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This is a competitive grant program. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal          
  assistance with respect to competitive funding opportunities under this program      
  description, EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-       
  proposal assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive 
  announcement. For additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as        
  "Information Contacts" in Section 7 of the Application Guidelines for                
  Brownfields Job Training Grants. This program is excluded from coverage under        
  E.O. 12372. (See EPA's Federal Register Notice from November 26, 1986, to            
  exempt hazardous waste training programs from intergovernmental review.)             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  By statute, EPA must award Brownfields Job Training grants competitively.            
  EPA will specify application procedures in Requests for Initial Proposals or         
  Request for Applications. As stipulated in the Requests for Applications,            
  successful grant applicants must provide, in addition to the SF 424, a Dun and       
  Bradstreet Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number, which is now               
  required when applying for federal grants or cooperative agreements on or after      
  October 1, 2003. For more information go to: http://www.grants.gov. Requests         
  for application kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency,       
  Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division, 3903R, Washington,            
  DC 20460 or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix           
  IV of the Catalog. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to            
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,        
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated     
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance        
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements. Final             
  approval of applications for job training grants and supporting documentation is     
  made by EPA. Award of grant funds are made by EPA Regional Award                     
  Officials.                                                                           
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Proposal deadlines for selection of job training grant projects are announced in     
  Requests for Initial Proposals and/or Requests for Applications. The FY 09           
  Request for Applications is anticipated to be issued in June 2008 and the closing    
  date will follow approximately 45-60 days following the issuing date.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  For job training grants, the range of approval/disapproval time will be              
  approximately ninety days.                                                           
Appeals:                                                                               
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in                
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal        
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also         
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."       
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients      
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                  
Renewals:                                                                              
  EPA may incrementally fund grants and cooperative agreements under this              
  program. Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on                   
  satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of the project to EPA's           
  priorities and availability of funds. Renewals and extensions of funding are not     
  available.                                                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  For the Brownfields Job Training Grant, EPA does not require that applicants         
  include a match or cost share. However, evidence of leveraged funds is               
  encouraged. Furthermore, a statutory factor in ranking applications under            
  Section 104(k)(6) is the extent to which EPA financial assistance will stimulate     
  the availability of other funds for environmental assessment or remediation, and     
  subsequent reuse of Brownfields sites. Applicants may be encouraged to provide       
  information regarding resources (cash/in-kind services) that they, or a project      
  partner, would commit to efforts receiving EPA financial assistance. EPA may         
  take these commitments into account in ranking proposals. This program has no        
  statutory formula.                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The performance period for job training grant funds is generally two years.          
  Brownfield grant cooperative agreements may be amended to provide additional         
  funding and additional time for grant recipients demonstrating significant           
  success in brownfields training and redevelopment efforts depending upon the         
  availability of funding. Proposal funding is not guaranteed at any stage of the      
  proposal process until the Cooperative Agreement, including workplan, is             
  completed and the final award is made. All awards are made in a lump sum.            
Reports:                                                                               
  Reporting requirements are identified at 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31. EPA may             
  include additional information regarding the content and frequency of reporting      
  requirements in the terms and conditions of the agreements.                          
Audits:

  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the



1034                                                                             11-08

  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (non-profits and
  universities) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable depending
  upon the identity of the recipient. Financial records, including all documents to
  support entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes to each grant
  must be kept available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts.
  All records must be maintained until expiration of three years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as
  those raised as a result of audit, related records must be retained until the matter
  is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $2,342,813; FY 08 $2,597,050; and FY 09 est $2,500,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  (FY 07) $171,250 to $200,000; average $195,234. (FY 08) $197,051 to
  $200,000; average $199,773. For job training grants, an eligible entity may
  apply up to $200,000. The performance period for these grants is generally 2
  years.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  To date, EPA has funded 131 brownfields job training grants totaling
  approximately $25 million. In FY 07, EPA received thirty-eight proposals and
  awarded twelve new cooperative agreements. In FY 08, EPA received 38
  proposals and awarded thirteen new cooperative agreements. It is anticipated
  that 12 to 13 cooperative agreements will be awarded for FY 09. As of spring
  2008, more than 4,200 people had completed training; and more than 2,700
  obtained employment in the environmental field with an average starting hourly
  wage of $13.97.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  For job training grants, costs must be in accordance with OMB Circulars Nos.
  A-87 (State, tribal and local governments), A-21 (universities) and A-122
  (nonprofit organizations), depending on the recipient. Recipients must comply
  with 40 CFR Part 30 for universities and nonprofit organizations, and Part 31 for
  states, tribes, and local governments. In addition, recipients must comply with
  applicable provisions of EPA training grant regulations at 40 CFR Part 45. EPA
  will also provide applicants with guidance on statutory prohibitions on the use of
  grant and cooperative agreement funds in Requests for Initial Proposals,
  Requests for Applications, or by other means.
Regional or Local Office:
  EPA Regional Offices are listed in Section 7 in the Application Guidelines for
  Brownfields Job Training Grants.
Headquarters Office:
  For program information contact: Office of Brownfields and Land
  Revitalization, OSWER, EPA, Washington, DC 20460, Joseph Bruss,
  Telephone: (202) 566-2772, Fax: (202) 566-1476, E-mail:
  bruss.joseph@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/brownfields.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.814, Brownfields Training, Research, and Technical Assistance Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements; 66.817, State and Tribal Response Program Grants;
  66.818, Brownfields Assessment and Cleanup Cooperative Agreements.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In Fiscal Years 2007 and 2008, the EPA Brownfields Program awarded
  cooperative agreements to a variety of eligible entities and nonprofit
  organizations to provide local residents with the skills needed to gain
  employment in careers related to the assessment and cleanup of brownfields
  sites. These cooperative agreements included training and instruction in a variety
  of subjects, including: OSHA health and safety training, HAZWOPER and
  HAZMAT certification, lead and asbestos abatement, forklift operations,
  phytoremediation, mold remediation, site assessment, sampling, field
  investigation, instrumentation, and treatment technologies. Furthermore, these
  cooperative agreements provided brownfields job training programs the funds
  needed to perform recruitment and community outreach to residents in low-
  income and minority neighborhoods impacted by brownfields sites.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.
