66.816 HEADQUARTERS AND REGIONAL                                                     
UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS PROGRAM                                                    
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF UNDERGROUND STORAGE TANKS, OFFICE OF SOLID                               
  WASTE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE, ENVIRONMENTAL                                        
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Solid Waste Disposal Act of 1976, Section 8001(a) and (b) as amended by the        
  Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984 (Public Law 98-616); the Safe         
  Drinking Water Act Amendments of 1986 (Public Law 99-339); and the                 
  Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 (Public Law 99-499),          
  42 U.S.C. 6991; Resource Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976.                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To support activities that promote the prevention, compliance, and identification  
  of underground storage tanks, and to support activities that promote corrective    
  action, enforcement and management of releases from underground storage tank       
  systems. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: High priority tasks include: (1)     
  Training Support: Provide State and tribal underground storage tanks (UST) and     
  leaking underground storage tanks (LUST) programs and the regulated                
  community mechanisms by which state and federal communication, assistance          
  and training on UST/LUST program implementation can occur on both a                
  regional and national scale; (2) Electronic Newsletter: Provide state and tribal   
  regulators, the general public and the regulated community with technical          
  information on underground storage tank (UST) systems; and (3) State/Federal       
  Partnerships: Provide technical assistance and forums for information exchange     
  to assist States in developing their program capabilities to manage their          
  UST/LUST programs in the most efficient and effective manner possible.             
  Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: High priority tasks include: (1) Training     
  Support: Provide State and tribal underground storage tanks (UST) and leaking      
  underground storage tanks (LUST) programs and the regulated community              
  mechanisms by which state and federal communication, assistance and training       
  on UST/LUST program implementation can occur on both a regional and                
  national scale; (2) Electronic Newsletter: Provide state and tribal regulators, the
  general public and the regulated community with technical information on           
  underground storage tank (UST) systems; and (3) State/Federal Partnerships:        
  Provide technical assistance and forums for information exchange to assist         
  States in developing their program capabilities to manage their UST/LUST           
  programs in the most efficient and effective manner possible.                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' eligible    
  and allowable direct costs incurred under an approved work plan plus allowable     
  indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and regulations. Use   
  Restrictions are that funds awarded under Section 8001(a) and (b) of RCRA          
  must be used for projects that may include the following types of activities:      
  educational materials, surveys, training, studies, demonstrations, investigations, 
  special projects and the development or use of methods to improve UST systems      
  management and performance to reduce the actual and potential risks to human       
  health and the environment. Assistance agreement awards under this program         
  may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding     
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:           
  http://geodata.epa.gov."                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  These assistance agreements are only available to public authorities (State,       
  interstate, intrastate, agencies designated by States or Territorial Governors to  
  receive UST notifications, federally-recognized Tribes and Intertribal Consortia,  
  and local), public agencies and institutions; private non-profit organizations and 
  agencies that meet the requirements of Section 8001(a) and (b) of the Solid        
  Waste Disposal Act. Profit-making organizations and the general public are not     
  eligible. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA            
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of  
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement              
  Competition Policy.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State and local governments, territories and possessions, interstate agencies,     
  Tribes, Intertribal Consortia, members of the regulated community and residents    
  in areas impacted by federally regulated underground storage tanks.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  EPA may request that applicants document their nonprofit status.                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive      
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify   
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be    
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional            
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.       
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 


                                                                                11-08
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Non-competitive proposals generally must be received prior to May 15 for
  funding in applicable fiscal year. For competitive awards, deadlines will be
  specified in the Requests for Initial Proposals or the Requests for Applications.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. EPA may incrementally fund grants and cooperative agreements under
  this program. Approval of subsequent funding increments is dependent on
  satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of the project to EPA's
  priorities, and availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The program has no statutory formula. Cost sharing is not required, unless noted
  in request for applications or initial proposals. Unsolicited applications for
  research funding may require cost sharing under the general provisions of EPA's
  Appropriations legislation.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The length and time phasing of the assistance agreement shall be determined
  prior to the award. Assistance agreements are awarded either as non-competitive
  or competitive, subject to EPA Order 5700.5A1. Assistance agreements are
  awarded on a single-year basis, three-year basis, or five-year basis. The funding
  is released to the recipient according to the recipient's accounting requests, e.g.,
  quarterly, monthly, etc.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are identified at 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31. EPA may
  include additional information regarding the content and frequency of reporting
  requirements in the terms and conditions of the agreements.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (nonprofits and
  universities) or 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable depending
  upon the identity of the recipient. Financial records, including all documents to
  support entries on accounting records and to substantiate changes to each grant
  must be kept available to personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts.
  All records must be maintained until expiration of three years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as
  those raised as a result of audit, related records should be retained until the
  matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  EPM 68-0108-0-1-304; LUST 20-8153-0-7-304.
Obligations:
  EPM: FY 07 $267,794; FY 08 est. $746,000; and FY 09 est. $750,000; LUST:
  FY 07 $600,000; FY 08 est. $947,000; and FY 09 est. $700,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  FY 07 Range $268,000 - $600,000/year; Average $434,000/year. FY 08
  Estimated Range $200,000 - $750,000/year; Average $475,000/year. FY 09
  Estimated Range $200,000 - $750,000/year; Average $475,000/year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  For the two non-competitive FY 07 assistance agreements awarded, program
  outcomes included assisting the states in ensuring fewer confirmed UST releases
  and completing LUST cleanups. For the three FY 08 assistance agreements
  already awarded, two of which were awarded competitively, one was awarded
                                                                                   1035
