  non-competitively, and two non-competitive assistance agreements yet to be           
  awarded, program outcomes will include assisting the states in ensuring fewer        
  confirmed UST releases and completing LUST cleanups.                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  General Grant Regulations and Procedures (40 CFR Part 30, 31, and 34); "EPA          
  Assistance Administration Manual," available from the National Technical             
  Information Service, Springfield, VA, on a subscription basis. Costs will be         
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational                  
  institutions, OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and Indian       
  Tribes, and OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions.                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  For state-specific opportunities, EPA encourages potential applications to           
  communicate with the appropriate EPA Regional Underground Storage Tanks              
  Regional Program Managers, see http://www.epa.gov/OUST/regions/index.htm.            
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Lynn DePont, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Mail Code 5401P,                        
  Washington, DC 20460, Telephone: (703) 603-7148, Fax: (703) 603-0175; E-             
  mail: depont.lynn@epa.gov.                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.epa.gov/OUST/.                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  66.804, State and Tribal Underground Storage Tanks Program; 66.805, Leaking          
  Underground Storage Tank Trust Fund Program.                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  (1) Training Support: (A) Provide underground storage tanks (UST) and leaking        
  underground storage tanks training activities for states and tribes, e.g., the       
  Annual Tanks Conference, and training opportunities for states and tribes on         
  effective implementation strategies and the tools utilized among the states with     
  regulatory programs underway, program initiatives, compliance with UST               
  systems, and UST releases. (B) Provide cross-media assistance in sponsoring          
  workshops to states for source water issues, and coordinate activities directly      
  with states and tribes related to groundwater and source water impacts resultant     
  from underground storage tanks. (2) Electronic Newsletter: Provide state and         
  tribal regulators, the general public and the regulated community with technical     
  information on underground storage tank (UST) systems. (3) State/Federal             
  Partnerships: Provide technical assistance and forums for information exchanges      
  to assist States in developing their program capabilities to manage their            
  UST/LUST programs in the most efficient and effective manner possible. (4)           
  Studies: Gather information and provide a summary on technical issues, e.g.,         
  study on the impact of using on-site measurement technologies for site               
  assessment and contaminant conceptualization at petroleum release sites. (5)         
  Disseminate Technical Information to states, tribes and Intertribal Consortia on     
  UST/LUST program implementation.                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA         
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.                       
                                                                                       
66.817 STATE AND TRIBAL RESPONSE PROGRAM                                               
                                                                                       
GRANTS                                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF SOLID WASTE AND EMERGENCY RESPONSE,                                        
  ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act,               
  Section 128(a), as amended, Public Law 107-118; Small Business Liability             
  Relief and Brownfields Revitalization Act.                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  EPA's CERCLA Section 128(a) grant program funds activities that establish or         
  enhance state and tribal response program capacity, capitalize revolving loan        
  funds (RLFs), and support insurance mechanisms. The goals of this funding are        
  to provide financial support for elements of an effective state or tribal response   
  program as specified in CERCLA Section 128 and to ensure that states and             
  tribes maintain a public record of sites included in their programs. Funding         
  Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: In FY 2008, funding will be prioritized as follows:     
  (1) Funding for program development activities to establish or enhance the four      
  elements of a state or tribal response program and to enable states and tribes to    
  comply with the public record requirement, including activities related to           
  institutional controls. (States and tribes that have established one or more of the  
  four elements will not be prejudiced in funding distributions if their work plan     
  includes activities that enhance the four elements. States with Voluntary            
  Cleanup Program Memorandum of Agreement will not be prejudiced in funding            
  distributions if their work plan does not include tasks related to establishing or   
  enhancing the four elements.) (2) Funding for program development activities to      
  enhance the response program or the cleanup capacity of a state or tribal            
  response program. (3) Funding for site-specific activities at eligible brownfields   
  sites. (4) Funding for environmental insurance mechanisms. (5) Funding to            
  capitalize brownfields cleanup RLFs.                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      


1036                                                                             11-08

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  States and tribes can use Section 128 funding to (1) establish or enhance four
  statutory elements of a response program, as per CERCLA Section 128(a)(2), (2)
  capitalize a Revolving Loan Fund program for brownfields cleanup, pursuant to
  CERCLA Section 104(k)(3), (3) purchase environmental insurance or develop a
  risk sharing pool, an indemnity pool, or insurance mechanism to provide
  financing for response actions under their programs, and (4) maintain and
  update, at least annually, a public record of sites, pursuant to CERCLA Section
  128(b), that includes the name and location of sites at which response actions
  have been completed during the previous year and the name and location of sites
  at which response actions are planned to be addressed in the next year; (5)
  conduct limited site-specific activities; "Establish" includes activities necessary
  to build the foundation for the four elements of a state or tribal response program
  or may also include activities that keep their program at a level that meets the
  four elements. "Enhance" is related to activities that add to or improve a state or
  tribal response program or increase the number of sites at which response
  actions are conducted under a state or tribal response program. States and tribes
  may use Section 128(a) funds for activities that establish and enhance their
  response programs, even if their response programs address petroleum-
  contamination. Restrictions apply to site-specific activities, such as assessment
  and cleanup. Assessments and cleanups must be conducted at eligible
  brownfields sites, as defined in CERCLA Section 101(39).
Applicant Eligibility:
  States (as defined in CERCLA Section 101(27) and tribes (as defined in
  CERCLA Section 101(36) are eligible for funding under Section 128(a). To be
  eligible to receive funding under CERCLA Section 128(a), a state or tribe must
  demonstrate that its response program includes, or is taking reasonable steps to
  include, the four elements of a response program. States or tribes that are parties
  to voluntary response program memoranda of agreement (MOAs) are
  automatically eligible for Section 128(a) funding. Additionally, states and tribes,
  including those with MOAs, must maintain and make available to the public a
  record of sites at which response actions have been completed in the previous
  year and are planned to be addressed in the upcoming year in order to qualify for
  Section 128(a) funding.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries include individuals living in recipient states', territories', and tribes'
  jurisdiction.
Credentials/Documentation:
  States and tribes must provide documentation that they have met or are making
  reasonable progress towards meeting the four statutory elements, or have a
  Voluntary Cleanup Program Memorandum of Agreement with EPA, and have
  established and are maintaining the public record. States and tribes must define
  their "Section 128(a) response program", and may designate a component of the
  state or tribe that will be EPA's primary point of contact for negotiations on their
  proposed work plan.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Annually, states and tribes will work with the EPA regional offices to develop
  their work plans and funding requests for the upcoming year. Each cooperative
  agreement must have an annual budget period tied to an annual work plan.
  Annual funding guidance provides the requirements for submitting requests. No
  specific forms are required. Informal assistance is available through regional
  offices. States are subject to requirements under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs" as implemented in 40 CFR Part 29. Tribes are
  exempt. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  States and tribes submit requests to EPA regional offices for funding on an
  annual basis by submitting a proposed work plan. Annual funding guidance
  provides the information that should be submitted to the regional office. Once
  initial requests are submitted, EPA headquarters consolidates requests and
  provides a final allocation based on factors provided in the funding guidance.
  No specific form is required for submission of request. Applicants may be able
  to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant
  opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  EPA regional offices will negotiate and enter into a single cooperative agreement
  with interested states or tribes. States and tribes may distribute these funds
  among the appropriate state and tribal agencies to meet their specific needs
  within their state or tribal agency structures. At least annually, the regional
  offices must verify that a public record as described above exists for each of the
  state or tribal response programs that are receiving funding.
Deadlines:
  EPA will accept requests for funding from December 1, 2007 through January
  31, 2008.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  120 days from completed negotiation of cooperative agreement.
Appeals:
