  brownfields cleanups. (4) An RLF project grant recipient may use its funds to      
  award subgrants to other eligible entities, including nonprofit organizations, for 
  brownfields cleanups on sites owned by the subgrantee; (5) Brownfields             
  cleanup grant funds must be used to carry out cleanup activities at brownfield     
  sites that are owned by the grant recipient. (6) Costs incurred under CERCLA       
  104(k) grants or cooperative agreements may not be used for an administrative      
  cost, penalty or fine, a Federal cost-share requirement, a response cost for which 
  the recipient of the grant or cooperative agreement is potentially liable under    
  CERCLA 107, or the cost of complying with a Federal law, with the exception        
  of the costs of laws applicable to cleanup of Brownfields sites. All grants under  
  66.818 are awarded on a discretionary basis. For information on statutory limits   
  on the amount of funding, see Range and Average of Financial Assistance,           
  below. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to     
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information       
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligibility for Assessment, Revolving Loan Fund, and Cleanup Grants: a general     
  purpose unit of local government; a land clearance authority or other quasi-       
  governmental entity that operates under the supervision and control of, or as an   
  agent of, a general purpose unit of local government; a government entity          
  created by a State legislature; a regional council or group of general purpose     
  units of local government; a redevelopment agency that is chartered or otherwise   
  sanctioned by a State; a State; an Indian Tribe other than in Alaska; an Alaska    
  Native Regional Corporation, Alaska Native Village Corporation and the             
  Metlakatla Indian Community. Nonprofit organizations that own the property         
  are also eligible for cleanup grants. Nonprofit organizations must meet the        
  definition of that term in Section 4(6) of the Federal Financial Assistance        
  Management Improvement Act of 1999, Public Law 96-107, 31 U.S.C. 6101              
  (Note: Under this definition, colleges, universities, and community colleges are   
  eligible to apply.) However, nonprofit organizations described in Section          
  501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying activities as       
  defined in Section 3 of the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 are not eligible to    
  apply. For profit organizations are not eligible to apply for direct funding from  
  EPA. However, for profit organizations may apply for loans made by eligible        
  entities with RLF capitalization grants. For certain competitive funding           
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to     
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the           
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Generally, those eligible entities identified above will benefit from the          
  brownfields grant actions. Specifically, individuals and commercial                
  organizations in brownfields grant communities will benefit from brownfields       
  assessment, cleanup, and revitalization funding. New strategies for promoting      
  environmental cleanup lessons from these grants will provide a growing base of     
  information and knowledge for other communities across the country seeking         
  partnerships with stakeholders to coordinate issues related to brownfields and     
  leverage additional opportunities for redevelopment.                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  EPA may require that nonprofit organizations or eligible entities other than       
  states, tribes, or general purpose units of local government provide               
  documentation of eligibility. EPA may also require that applicants provide site    
  specific information to determine whether a site qualifies as a Brownfields site   
  under CERCLA 101(39).                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive      
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify   
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be    
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional            
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.       
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  This is a competitive grant program. EPA guidelines for Requests for Proposals     
  or Requests for Applications will specify application procedures. For EPA          
  Regional Office contacts, see Appendix IV of the Catalog. The standard             
  application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB           
  Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program. EPA requires           
  final applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for application       
  kits must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and          
  Interagency Agreements Management Division, 3903R, Washington, DC 20460            
  or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the        
  Catalog. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically     
  apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  This is a competitive grant program. EPA guidelines for Requests for Proposals     
  or Requests for Applications will specify award procedures. For EPA Regional       
  Office contacts, see Appendix IV of the Catalog. For competitive awards, EPA       


1038                                                                           11-08

  will review and evaluate applications, proposals, and/or submissions in
  accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive
  announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance with EPA
  policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  EPA guidelines for Requests for Proposals or Requests for Applications will
  specify application deadlines. Alternately, contact the headquarters or individual
  regional office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR 3629,
  3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also be requested by
  contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts." Disputes relating
  to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients will be resolved
  under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Recipients of RLF grants may apply for additional funding on a non-competitive
  basis during any year after the first year the recipient receives an RLF grant. To
  seek additional funding, RLF grant recipients should contact their EPA Regional
  Office. In awarding this additional funding the Agency will consider: (I) the
  number of sites and number of communities that are addressed by the revolving
  loan fund; (II) the demand for funding by eligible entities that have not
  previously received an RLF grant; (III) the demonstrated ability of the eligible
  entity to use the revolving loan fund to enhance remediation and provide funds
  on a continuing basis; and (IV) Other similar factors, including the availability
  of funds and the recipient's performance history. Recipients of assessment and
  cleanup grants generally do not receive additional funding on a non-competitive
  basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Matching requirements are not
  applicable for brownfield assessment grants. Under CERCLA 104(k)(9)(B)(iii)
  revolving loan fund and cleanup grants require a 20 percent cost share, which
  may be in the form of a contribution of money, labor, material, or services, and
  must be for eligible and allowable costs. An RLF or cleanup grant applicant may
  request a waiver of the 20 percent cost share requirement based on financial
  hardship.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The performance period for brownfields assessment and cleanup grant funds is
  three years. The performance period for brownfields revolving loan fund grants
  is generally five years. Grants are generally announced nationally and awarded
  by EPA Regional Offices. The Regional Offices work with the applicants to
  negotiate a workplan and award the cooperative agreement.
Reports:
  Quarterly progress reports, property profiles, notification of significant
  development, property inventory reports, procurement reports, a final report and
  financial reports may be required if authorized by 40 CFR Parts 30 and 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Record Retention Requirements of 40 CFR Part 30 (non-profits and universities)
  and 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are applicable, depending upon the
  identity of the recipient and the program funded.
Account Identification:
  68-0103-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  In FY 2007, EPA announced 294 grants totaling $70.7 million. These included
  189 assessment grants, 92 cleanup grants, and 13 Revolving Loan Fund (RLF)
  grants. In FY 2008, EPA announced the selection of 314 grants totaling over $74
  million. These include 194 assessment grants, 108 cleanup grants, and 12
  revolving loan fund grants and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range and Average of Financial Assistance: (1) For assessment grants, an
  eligible entity may apply for up to $200,000 to address sites contaminated by
  hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants (including hazardous
  substances co-mingled with petroleum) and up to $200,000 to address sites
  contaminated by petroleum; most applicants receive this amount. Applicants
  may request a waiver of the $200,000 limit up to $350,000 for sites
  contaminated by hazardous substances, pollutants, or contaminants (including
