  environmental regulatory programs on Indian lands, and provide technical           
  assistance from EPA to Indian tribal governments and intertribal consortia in the  
  development of multimedia programs to address environmental issues on Indian       
  lands. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008: Funding is for the purposes of         
  planning, developing, and establishing the administrative, technical, legal,       
  enforcement, communications, and environmental education and outreach              
  structure of a tribal environmental program. In FY 08, the goal is to provide      
  funding and technical assistance so that approximately 500 or 90 percent of        
  federally-recognized tribal governments and intertribal consortia have at least    
  one person working in their community to build a strong, sustainable               
  environment for the future. The vital work performed includes locally assessing    
  the status of a tribe's environmental condition, utilizing available federal       
  information, building an environmental program tailored to the tribe's needs,      
  developing environmental education programs, developing solid waste                
  management plans, assisting in the building of tribal environmental capacity,      
  and alerting EPA to serious conditions involving immediate public health and       
  ecological health. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2009: Funding is for the         
  purposes of planning, developing, and establishing the administrative, technical,  
  legal, enforcement, communications, and environmental education and outreach       
  structure of a tribal environmental program. In FY 08, the goal is to provide      
  funding and technical assistance so that approximately 500 or 90 percent of        
  federally-recognized tribal governments and intertribal consortia have at least    
  one person working in their community to build a strong, sustainable               
  environment for the future. The vital work performed includes locally assessing    
  the status of a tribe's environmental condition, utilizing available federal       
  information, building an environmental program tailored to the tribe's needs,      
  developing environmental education programs, developing solid waste                
  management plans, assisting in the building of tribal environmental capacity,      
  and alerting EPA to serious conditions involving immediate public health and       
  ecological health.                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Activities eligible for funding under this program are those for planning,         
  developing, and establishing capability to implement environmental protection      
  programs including development of solid and hazardous waste programs.              
  General assistance agreements offer the opportunity for a tribe to develop an      
  integrated environmental program, develop the capability to manage specific        
  programs and establish a core program for environmental protection. These          
  assistance agreements provide the opportunity for the tribes to define and         
  develop administrative and legal infrastructures; to conduct assessments,          
  monitoring, planning, and other actions; and to undertake additional activities    
  within a simplified administrative framework. The primary purpose of these         
  assistance agreements is to support the development of elements of a core          
  environmental program, such as: providing for tribal capacity-building to assure   
  an environmental presence for identifying programs and projects, including         
  developing proposals for environmental program grants and managing                 
  environmental work; fostering compliance with Federal environmental statutes       
  by developing appropriate tribal environmental programs, ordinances, and           
  services; and establishing a communications capability to work with Federal,       
  State, local and other tribal environmental officials. Restrictions: The principal 
  focus of this program is on the development of general tribal environmental        
  capability. Assistance will be provided under this program only for activities     
  which the agency determines are appropriate to carry out the purposes of the       
  Act. No single grant awarded under this program may be for an amount               
  exceeding ten percent of the total annual funds appropriated under Section (h) of  
  the Act. As with many of EPA's grants to States and Tribes, GAP grants may         
  now be combined with one or more other EPA grants into a Performance               
  Partnership Grant for administrative savings and, with EPA concurrence,            
  programmatic flexibility. Assistance agreement awards under this program may       
  involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding         
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:           
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                            
                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:

  The following are eligible to receive financial assistance: (a) An Indian tribal   
  government; and (b) an intertribal consortium or consortia. An Indian tribal       
  government is any tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community,      
                                                                                     
  including any Alaska Native village or regional or village corporation (as

                                                                                     
  defined in or established pursuant to the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act,

                                                                                     
  43 U.S.C. 1601, et seq.), which is recognized by the U.S. Department of the

                                                                                     
  Interior as eligible for the special services provided by the United States to

                                                                                     
  Indians because of their status as Indians. A intertribal consortium is a

                                                                                     
  partnership between two or more Indian tribal governments authorized by the

                                                                                     
  governing bodies of those tribes to apply for and receive assistance under this

                                                                                     
  program. An intertribal consortium is eligible to receive a GAP grant if the

                                                                                     
  consortium demonstrates that: (1) A majority of its members meets the eligibility

                                                                                     
  requirements for GAP grants; (2) all members that meet the eligibility

                                                                                     
  requirements authorize the consortium to apply for and receive the grant; and (3)

                                                                                     
  only members that meet the eligibility requirements will benefit directly from the

                                                                                     
  grant project and the consortium agrees to a grant condition to that effect. An

1040                                                                           11-08

  intertribal consortium must have adequate documentation of the existence of the
  partnership and the authorization of the member Tribes to apply for and receive
  assistance. Documentation that demonstrates the existence of the partnership of
  Indian Tribal governments may consist of Tribal council resolutions, intertribal
  consortia resolutions in conjunction with a Tribal council resolution from each
  member Tribe, or other written certification from a duly authorized
  representative of each Tribal government that clearly demonstrates that a
  partnership of Indian Tribal governments exists. Documentation that
  demonstrates that member Tribes authorize the consortium to apply for and
  receive assistance may consist of a Tribal council resolution from each Tribe or
  other written certification from a duly authorized representative of each Tribal
  government that clearly demonstrates that the Tribe authorizes the consortium to
  apply for and receive the grant on behalf of the Tribe. An intertribal consortium
  resolution is not adequate documentation of the member Tribes authorization of
  the consortium unless it includes a written certification from a duly authorized
  representative of each Tribal government. For certain competitive funding
  opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to
  compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the
  Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments and eligible Intertribal
  Consortia.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must use the "Application for Federal Assistance: State and Local
  Non-Construction Programs" (Standard Form 424). Applicants may be able to
  use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities
  under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by the appropriate Regional Office and, if approved,
  financial assistance is awarded by the Regional Administrator or his/her
  delegated official. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate
  applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms,
  conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions
  will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing
  assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Regional Office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days after deadline for application submission.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  In order to receive renewals, significant progress must be demonstrated.
  Renewals are subject to approval of EPA. Contact the EPA Regional contact
  identified in Appendix IV of the Catalog for additional information.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Award amount remains available until expended in accordance with the term of
  the award. The term of an award may exceed one year, but may not exceed four
  years. The term of the grant shall be determined at the time of the grant award.
Reports:
  Procedures for accounting, auditing, evaluating, and reviewing any program for
  activities in whole or in part for general assistance grant under this section shall
  be governed by regulations at 40 CFR Parts 31 and 35, "Environmental Program
  Grants for Tribes," with reports as required by the specific terms of the
  agreement.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
