  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting         
  records and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept available to        
  personnel authorized to examine EPA grant accounts. All records must be             
  maintained for three years from the date of submission of the annual financial      
  status report. If questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of audit,
  related records should be retained until the matter is completely resolved.         
Account Identification:                                                               
  68-0103-0-1-304; STAG.                                                              
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $56,654,000 FY 08 $55,586,970; and FY 09 est. $57,925,000.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  The minimum award for the first year of the grant is $75,000/fiscal year, max.      
  $400,000/fiscal year; avg. $110,000/fiscal year.                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Awarded activities in FY 07 approximately 350 awards, and FY 08                     
  approximately 100 awards, enable over 450 tribal governments and intertribal        
  consortia to continue to develop and expand their environmental management          
  programs. EPA has implemented a new work plan reporting system to assist in         
  tracking progress and accomplishments. In FY 08, GAP funding was available to       
  allow up to 90 percent of the 572 eligible Tribes and Intertribal Consortia to      
  continue the work initiated in FY 07 and prior years.                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Public Law 102-497, Section 11, 42 U.S.C.4368(b), as amended by Public Law          
  103-155, November 24, 1993. The Agency published a notice for the Final             
  Guidelines on the Award and Management of General Assistance Agreements             
  for Indian Tribes at http://www.epa.gov/indian/tgrant.htm.                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Applicants are encouraged to communicate with their Regional Indian Program         
  Coordinator listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Rodges Ankrah, American Indian Environmental Office (4104 M)                        
  Environmental Protection Agency, Ariel Rios Building, 1200 Pennsylvania             
  Ave., N.W., Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 564-0280; Fax: (202)             
  564-0298; E-mail: ankrah.rodges@epa.gov.                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.epa.gov/indian/tgrant.htm                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Purpose: The general assistance program is intended to provide general              
  assistance grants for planning, developing, and establishing the capability to      
  implement programs administered by EPA in Indian country. Examples of past          
  funded projects include: establishment of a water quality assessment program;       
  an environmental assessment inventory; establishment of an environmental            
  code; establishment of a multi-media program to address water quality, air          
  quality, safe drinking water, solid waste, hazardous waste and pesticides;          
  establishment of a management plan with emphasis on wastewater sludge               
  reclamation and tire recovery; and establishment of a program to address            
  underground storage tanks, SARA Title III, and radon.                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA        
  description will be described in the competitive announcement. Proposals are        
  approved by the individual EPA Regional offices according to the applicant's        
  ability to achieve objectives outlined in Public Law 102-497, Section 11, the       
  interim final regulation for programs implementation in the Federal Register on     
  December 2, 1993, 40 CFR Part 35, Indian Tribes; and the Final Guidelines on        
  the Award and Management of General Assistance Agreements for Indian                
  Tribes. Proposals should contain schedules for progress reports that will           
  contribute towards development of environmental management capacity                 
  building; provide for an on-going coordination and problem resolution; and          
  show an adequate ability to meet the proposed objectives, record keeping, and

                                                                                      
  reporting requirements.                                                             
                                                                                      
66.931 INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE                                             
PROJECTS SPONSORED BY THE OFFICE OF                                                   
                                                                                      
INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF INTERNATIONAL AFFAIRS, ENVIRONMENTAL                                      
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Clean Water Act, Section 104, as amended; Public Law 95-217,33 U.S.C. 1251          
  et seq.; Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended, Section 8001; Clean Air Act,         
  Section 103, as amended; Public Law 95-95; 42 U.S.C. 7401 et seq.; Toxic            
  Substances Control Act, Section 10, as amended; Public Law 94-469; 15 U.S. C.       


                                                                                 11-08
  2601 et seq.; Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act, Section 20, as
  amended; Public Laws 92-516; Public Laws 94-140 and 95-396, 7; U.S.C. 136
  et seq.; Safe Drinking Water Act, Section 1442(a) and (c), as amended; Public
  Law 93-523; National Environmental Policy Act, Section 102 (f); and Marine
  Protection, Research and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, Section 203.
OBJECTIVES:
  To protect human health and the environment while advancing U.S. national
  interests through international environmental collaboration. This mission is
  supported by four strategic objectives: (1) Reduce Transboundary Pollution; (2)
  Advance U.S. Interests Abroad; (3) Promote Good Environmental Governance;
  and (4) Ensure Effective Management. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year 2008:
  Clean Air: (a) International Capacity Building (more people cleaner air)- To
  provide technical assistance, training, information exchange and other forms of
  cooperation to enhance the capabilities of governments and other stakeholders to
  protect human health and the environment regionally and globally; (2) Clean and
  Safe Water: (a) International Capacity Building (water safe to drink) - To
  provide technical assistance, training, information exchange and other forms of
  cooperation to enhance the capabilities of governments and other stakeholders to
  protect human health and the environment regionally and globally.; (3) Healthy
  Communities and Ecosystems: (a) International Capacity Building (reduce
  chemical and biological risks) - To provide technical assistance, training
  information exchange and other forms of cooperation to enhance the capabilities
  of governments and other stakeholders to protect human health and the
  environment regionally and globally; (b) persistent organic pollutants (POPs)
  Implementation (reduce exposure to toxic pesticides and reduce chemical and
  biological risk)- To address toxics, including POPs and selected metals that
  circulate in the environment at global and regional scales, by working with other
  countries to control the production or phase-out from the use of such chemicals;
  (c) Environment and Trade (sustain community health) - Iniative relating to
  trade, investment, undertaken bilaterally or in connection with the World Trade
  Organization (WTO), World Bank, European Union (EU), or Asia-Pacific
  Economic Cooperation Forum (APEC); (d) U.S. Mexico Border (sustain and
  restore community health, and preserve the ecological systems that support
  them) - The program is implemented in partnership with the ten Border States,
  U.S. Tribal government and the government of Mexico with its corresponding
  states and tribes. It addresses the Agency's major themes of clean air, clean
  water, and clean land. order (sustain and restore community health, and preserve
  the ecological systems that support them) - The program is implemented in
  partnership with the ten Border States, U.S. Tribal government and the
  government of Mexico with its corresponding states and tribes. It addresses the
  Agency's major themes of clean air, clean water, and clean land.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Discretionary funds are available for the awards under this program. Grants and
  cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable direct cost
  expenditures incident to approved project plus allocable portions of allowable
  indirect costs of the institution, in accordance with established EPA policy, 40
  CFR parts 30 and 31. Funding awarded for international research under these
  projects does not include research within the purview of EPA's Office of
  Research and Development. Assistance agreement awards under this program
  may involve or relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding
  geospatial information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is generally available to States and local
  governments, territories and possessions, foreign governments, international
  organizations, Indian Tribes, and possessions of the U.S., including the District
  of Columbia, public and private universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories,
  other public or private nonprofit institutions, which submit applications
  proposing projects with significant technical merit and relevance to EPA's Office
  of International Affairs' mission.For certain competitive funding opportunities
  under this CFDA description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a
  number or subset of eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance
  Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States and local governments, territories, foreign governments, international
  organizations, Indian Tribes, and possessions of the U.S., including the District
  of Columbia, public and private universities and colleges, hospitals, laboratories,
  other public or private nonprofit institutions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Office of International Affairs (OIA) may require applicants to submit
  documentation of non-profit status. OIA may request applicants to demonstrate
  they have appropriate background, academic training, experience in the field,
  and necessary equipment to carry out projects. OIA may also ask applicants or
  principal investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
                                                                                  1041
