  Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Section 8001; Comprehensive                
  Environmental, Response, Compensation and Liability Act, Sections 104(k)(6)        
  311 as amended.                                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  (1) To support analyses, studies, evaluations, and conferences that lead to        
  improved environmental compliance, reduction in pollutants generated or            
  released to the environment, and conservation of natural resources; (2) To         
  promote comprehensive, cross-media approaches to environmental protection;         
  (3) To encourage and promote stewardship programs that reflect "beyond             
  compliance" behaviors and offer incentives or rewards for superior                 
  environmental performance; (4) To encourage and promote change that is             
  "systems-oriented" and enables better results (e.g., environmental, efficiency,    
  and/or cost savings) from a program, process, or sector-wide innovation; and (5)   
  To incorporate outcome measurement and evaluation essential to transferability     
  of the innovation. Funding Priority-Fiscal Year 2008: EPA's National Center for    
  Environmental Innovation (NCEI) has completed its solicitation and competition     
  for FY 2008, and is currently developing plans for one or more solicitations in    
  FY 2009. The 2008 competition was targeted to address the first priority for this  
  program. At least one competition addressing the first priority area is anticipated
  in FY 2009 and one or more additional solicitations addressing the other two       
  priority areas are possible. Funding under this competition (Part 1) will support  
  states striving to create performance-oriented regulatory systems that allow       
  flexible strategies to achieve measurable results, environmental stewardship in    
  all parts of society that support sustainable development and pollution            
  prevention, and a culture of creative environmental problem solving that has a     
  high capacity for collaborative, results-driven work and the organizational        
  systems to support it. Depending upon the availability of funding, NCEI may        
  also initiate additional competitions to address the second (Part 2) and third     
  (Part 3) priority areas of this program. Part 2 would be intended to provide       
  independent evaluation of State projects funded previous under this competition    
  for the principal benefit of the states to help them in assessing the applicability
  of innovations tested in projects funded previously under this competition, or     
  supported otherwise by EPA's collaboration focused at informing other states       
  and American Indian Tribes with delegated authority for environmental              
  programs about the feasibility and practicality of implementing similar            
  innovations. The principal beneficiaries of these evaluations will be States and   
  Tribes that are assessing the applicability of an environmental innovation tested  
  by another state, for their own use. Part 3 would provide assistance for the       
  development of a center to provide technical assistance to the states and tribes   
  for the transfer of policy innovation. To fulfill this role, the center would also 
  support the state and tribal environmental agencies by convening meetings for      
  the purpose of exchanging information on state experience with testing and         
  measuring the results or benefits of innovation.                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grants and cooperative agreements are available to support recipients' allowable   
  direct costs incident to approved Environmental Policy and Innovation plus         
  allowable indirect costs, in accordance with established EPA policies and          
  regulations. Funding awarded for research does not include research within the     
  purview of EPA's Office or Research and Development. Funds awarded under           
  Section 311(b)(3) of CERCLA must be used for projects relating to innovative       
  or alternative treatment technologies that may be utilized in response actions to  
  achieve more permanent protection of human health and welfare and the              
  environment. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or         
  relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial         
  information may be obtained by viewing the following website:                      
  http://geodata.epa.gov.                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Assistance under Part 1 of this program is available to principal environmental    
  regulatory agencies for States, territories, and possessions of the U.S., including
  the District of Columbia. EPA may make a separate competition available under      
  Part 1 of this program to federally-certified Native American Tribes. Assistance   
  under Parts 2 or 3 of this program is available to not-for-profit institutions,    
  foundations and institutes to provide independent evaluation of projects or        
  classes of projects that will be of use to other States and Tribes in implementing 
  innovations; or, to provide assistance to states testing policy innovation and for 
  the transfer among the states and tribes of information useful for the             
  implementation of innovations. EPA would issue separate solicitations for Part     
  1, Part 2, and Part 3 of this program. Some of EPA's statutes may limit            
  assistance to specific types of interested applicants. See "Authorization" listed  
  above. For certain competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA               
  description, the Agency may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of  
  eligible applicants consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement              
  Competition Policy.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Under Part 1 of this announcement, State and local governments, U.S. territories   
  and possessions. In a separate solicitation that could be issued under Part 1,     
  Federally-certified Native American Tribes. For Parts 2 and 3, non profit          
  institutions, foundations and institutes may apply.                                


                                                                                11-08
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation of nonprofit status may be required. Applicants may be
  requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training,
  experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects. EPA may
  ask applicants or principle investigators to provide curriculum vitae and relevant
  publications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 and A-110 must be used for this program and those
  forms are available on the EPA web site
  (http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm). EPA requires final
  applications to be made on Standard Form 424. Requests for application kits
  must be submitted to the Environmental Protection Agency, Grants and
  Interagency Agreements Management Division, 3903R, Washington, DC 20460
  or through the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog. Additional information on the EPA grant package can be found at:
  http://www.epa.gov/ogd/grants/how_to_apply.htm. Requests for Initial
  Proposals or Requests for Applications will specify application procedures. For
  information on the current or prior solicitations, please see the EPA State
  Innovation Grants website at http://www.epa.gov/innovation/stategrants.
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.
Award Procedure:
  For non-competitive awards, EPA will conduct an administrative evaluation to
  determine the adequacy of application in relation to grant regulations and to
  technical and program evaluation to determine the merit and relevance of the
  project. The Agency will then advise the applicant if funding is being
  considered. A final work plan will then be negotiated with the applicant. For
  competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be specified in Request for Applications or Request for Initial
  Proposals.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and cooperative agreements
  for Environmental Policy and Innovation. Approval of subsequent funding
  increments is dependent on satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of
  the project to EPA's priorities, availability of funds, and Agency policy on the
  competitive grant process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  EPA normally funds grants and cooperative agreements on a 12-month basis.
  However, EPA can negotiate the project period with each applicant based on
  project requirements. Most projects have been of a 1-3 year duration. For
  purposes of this program, EPA limits the project periods to no more than 4
  years.
Reports:
  EPA includes reporting requirements for grants and cooperative agreements in
  the terms and conditions of the agreements. Agreements may require quarterly,
  interim, and final progress reports, and financial, equipment, and invention
  reports. Specific reporting requirements are also identified in the Grant
  Regulations Part 30 and Part 31.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
                                                                                 1043
