  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,           
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                  
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in        
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                                
  The record retention requirements of 40 CFR Part 31 (governmental units) are          
  applicable depending upon the identity of the recipient. Recipients must keep         
  financial records, including all documents supporting entries on accounting           
  records and to substantiate changes in grants available to personnel authorized to    
  examine EPA recipients grants and cooperative agreements records. Recipients          
  must maintain all records until 3 years from the date of submission of final          
  expenditure reports. If questions, such as those raised as a result of audits remain  
  following the 3-year period, recipients must retain records until the matter is       
  completely resolved.                                                                  
Account Identification:                                                                 
  68-0108-0-1-304.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $1,611,000; FY 08 $885,000; and FY 09 est. $1,000,000. Assistance               
  agreements under this CFDA generally take the form of Cooperative Agreements          
  and rarely Grants.                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $50,000 to $350,000 per grant. The average for awards is approximately                
  $225,000 for a 1-4 year assistance agreement.                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In the FY 2007 competition, the Agency receive 17 pre-proposals for a total of        
  $3.8M. Seven projects were selected totaling $1,611M in funding. In the FY            
  2008 competition, the Agency received 12 pre-proposals totaling over $3M.             
  Three projects were selected totaling $0.885M in funding. Since the beginning         
  of the State Innovation Grant Program, 35 awards have been made (the 3                
  selections made in the 2008 competition have awards pending at the date of this       
  announcement). The 38 projects cover the following areas: 19 Environmental            
  Results Program (ERP) projects, 11 Environmental Management Systems                   
  (EMS) and other permitting integration approach projects, 2 watershed                 
  permitting projects, 1 project for a streamlined and enhanced permitting through      
  application of innovative information technology (IT) Systems, 1 project for          
  integrated regional air quality management across state and regional boundaries,

  and 8 Performance Track (PT) projects. Please note that several of these projects

  incorporate multiple elements (e.g., projects that are both ERP and EMS, or           
  projects that are both ERP and Performance Track)so, this breakdown of                
  projects identifies projects that appear in multiple categories. Eight of the initial 
  projects from the FY 2002 and 2004 solicitations are now complete. These state

  agencies have submitted their final project reports. For additional information,      
  including access to the Program's 2008 progress report executive summary, see:        
  http://www.epa.gov/innovation/stategrants. The results of these assistance            
  agreements will enable the Agency to meet performance measures noted in the           
  Agency Strategic Plan.                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Environmental Policy and State Innovation grants and cooperative agreements           
  are subject to EPA's General Grant Regulations (40 CFR Part 30 and 40 CFR             
  Part 31). State governments costs will be determined in accordance with OMB           
  Circular No. A-87.                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  EPA encourages potential applicants to communicate with the appropriate EPA           
  Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog, and the Headquarters            
  program contacts listed below.                                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  For information on grant applications and procedures, contact: Environmental          
  Protection Agency, Grants and Interagency Agreements Management Division,             
  3903R, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20460. For program                
  information contact Pamela Stirling; Phone: (202) 566-0949; FAX: (202) 566-           
  3001; e-mail: stirling.pamela@epa.gov.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.epa.gov/innovation/stategrants.                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  66.034, Surveys, Studies, Research, Investigations, Demonstrations, and Special

                                                                                        
  Purpose Activities Relating to the Clean Air Act; 66.436, Surveys, Studies,

                                                                                        
  Investigations, Demonstrations, and Training Grants and Cooperative

                                                                                        
  Agreements - Section 104(b)(3) of the Clean Water Act; 66.813, Alternative or

                                                                                        
  Innovative Treatment Technology Research, Demonstration, Training, and

                                                                                        
  Hazardous Substance Research Grants; 66.611, Environmental Policy and

                                                                                        
  Innovation Grants.

                                                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                        
  This is the third year for this CFDA entry. Under this announcement and

                                                                                        
  previous announcements under 66.611, Environmental Policy and Innovation

                                                                                        
  Grants, EPA funded projects such as the "Implementation of a Voluntary

                                                                                        
  Automotive Body and Automotive Repair Environmental Results Program."

                                                                                        
  This project supported a state undertaking an automotive body and automotive



1044                                                                              11-08

  repair Environmental Results Program (ERP) to administer targeted multi-media
  assistance to auto body and auto repair facilities, to implement a self-
  certification program, and to measure the compliance results. Another example
  of a project funded is the "Auto Salvage Environmental Results Program:
  Improved Compliance and Performance through Innovation." This project
  supported a state applying the ERP program to the auto salvage sector. The three
  part program included: (1) facility certification; (2) statistically-based
  performance measurement; and (3) on-site compliance, pollution prevention, and
  technical assistance. A third example of a project funded is the "Retail Gasoline
  Sector Environmental Results Project," which enabled a state to apply the ERP
  model to the retail gasoline sales sector as well as to other facilities regulated by
  the state's Underground Storage Tank program. Other examples of funded
  projects include: (a) the development of a voluntary Community EMS model
  under their Comprehensive Local Environmental Action Network (CLEAN) to
  encourage comprehensive environmental planning and continuous improvement;
  (b) the development of a watershed-based permitting program to address
  integrated management of water quality in a Basin impacted by coal-bed
  methane (CBM) extraction; (c) the implementation of an Environmental
  Leadership Program; A Vertical Start-up Model with Multi-State Applicability -
  designed to expand development of the state environmental leadership program,
  develop partnerships with other States in the Region and on the State borders to
  develop membership criteria and support for common business sectors, and
  work to align previously separate leadership projects such as OSHA's Voluntary
  Partnership Program, Energy Star, Green Buildings, and Smart Growth; and (d)
  the encouragement of Superior Environmental Performance Through
  Management Systems, Recognition, and Rewards. This program establishes a
  State-based Environmental Leadership Program that will complement (through a
  MOU/PPA) their participation in the National Performance Track Program.
  Planned project tasks include: building a "virtual EMS" tutorial through the
  college/university system; "greening the supply chain" mentoring projects; and
  implementing Performance Track incentives for applicable member facilities.
  New projects are testing the use of the Environmental Results Program across
  several business sectors applied at improving stormwater management, and
  applying Environmental Management Systems in permitting to improving
  compliance and environmental performance in the dairy AFO sector.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation and selection criteria for competitive awards under this CFDA
  description will be described in the competitive announcement.
66.950 ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION AND TRAINING
PROGRAM
   (EETP; Training Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION DIVISION, ENVIRONMENTAL
  PROTECTION AGENCY
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Environmental Education Act; Section 5, Public Law 101-619.
OBJECTIVES:
  To train educational professionals in the development and delivery of
  environmental education programs. As required by Public Law 101-619, funds
  are provided to universities, non-profit organizations, or a consortia of such
  institutions to deliver environmental education training and support for
  education professionals. Funding Priority-Fiscal Year 2008: EPA awards only
  cooperative agreements to a university, non-profit organization, or a consortia to
  operate the program on a multi-year basis. The training and support must be
  provided for both formal and non-formal educators, occur in both pre-service
  and in-service settings, and reach geographically and culturally diverse
  audiences across the U.S. The outputs should include: delivering in-service and
  pre-service educator training, promoting the national environmental education
  guidelines, supporting state capacity building, developing and institutionalizing
  a materials review process, supporting the accreditation of teachers, supporting
  state educator certification efforts, and supporting internet access to information
  and materials. The training program to be operated from October 1, 2005
  through September 30, 2010 must provide training and support for both formal
  and non-formal educators, occur in both pre-service and in-service settings, and
  reach geographically and culturally diverse audiences across the U.S. The
  outputs should include: delivering in-service and pre-service educator training,
  promoting the national environmental education guidelines, supporting state
  capacity building, developing and institutionalizing a materials review process,
  supporting the accreditation of teachers, supporting state educator certification
  efforts, and supporting internet access to information and materials. Funding
  Priority-Fiscal Year 2009: EPA awards only cooperative agreements to a
  university, nonprofit organization, or a consortia to operate the program on a
  multi-year basis. The training and support must be provided for both formal and
  non-formal educators, occur in both pre-service and in-service settings, and
  reach geographically and culturally diverse audiences across the U.S. The
  outputs should include: delivering in-service and pre-service educator training,
