  promoting the national environmental education guidelines, supporting state       
  capacity building, developing and institutionalizing a materials review process,  
  supporting the accreditation of teachers, supporting state educator certification 
  efforts, and supporting internet access to information and materials. The training
  program to be operated from October 1, 2005 through September 30, 2010 must       
  provide training and support for both formal and non-formal educators, occur in   
  both pre-service and in-service settings, and reach geographically and culturally 
  diverse audiences across the U.S. The outputs should include: delivering in-      
  service and pre-service educator training, promoting the national environmental   
  education guidelines, supporting state capacity building, developing and          
  institutionalizing a materials review process, supporting the accreditation of    
  teachers, supporting state educator certification efforts, and supporting internet
  access to information and materials.                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funds shall be used to establish an education and training program which shall    
  include, at a minimum: (1) classroom training in environmental education and      
  studies including environmental sciences and theory, educational methods and      
  practices, environmental career or occupational education, and topical            
  environmental issues and problems; (2) demonstrations of the design and           
  conduct of environmental field studies and assessments; (3) development of        
  environmental education programs and curricula, including programs and            
  curricula to meet the needs of diverse ethnic and cultural groups; (4) sponsorship
  and management of international exchanges of teachers and other educational       
  professionals between the United States, Canada, and Mexico involved in           
  environmental programs and issues; (5) maintenance or support of a library of     
  environmental education materials, information, literature, and technologies,     
  with electronic as well as hard copy accessibility; (6) evaluation and            
  dissemination of environmental education materials, training methods, and         
  related programs; (7) sponsorship of conferences, seminars, and related forums    
  for the advancement and development of environmental education and training       
  curricula and materials, including international conferences, seminars, and       
  forums; (8) supporting effective partnerships, networks, and the use of distant   
  learning technologies; and (9) such other activities as the Administrator         
  determines to be consistent with the policies of the Act. No funds made available 
  for this program shall be used for the acquisition of real property (including    
  buildings) or the construction or substantial modification of any building.       
  Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or relate to           
  geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial information      
  may be obtained by viewing the following website: http://geodata.epa.gov.         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Assistance under this program is available to universities, non-profit            
  organizations, or a consortia of such institutions to deliver environmental       
  education training and support for education professionals. For certain           
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency         
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants     
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Education (0-8), education (9-12), education (13+), nonprofit institutions.       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Documentation of nonprofit status may be required. Applicants may be              
  requested to demonstrate they have appropriate background, academic training,     
  experience in the field, and necessary equipment to carry out projects. Office of 
  Environmental Education may ask applicants or principal investigators to          
  provide curriculum vitae and relevant publications.                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  A solicitation notice is issued for this program once every five years. The notice
  identifies the application process. This program is excluded from coverage under  
  E.O. 12372. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to     
  competitive funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will        
  generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if   
  any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For    
  additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts"
  or see Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The next solicitation notice which describes the application procedure for this   
  program will be issued in the Federal Register in 2010. The last solicitation     
  notice was issued March 18, 2005. The solicitation process for this program is    
  conducted every five years. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov   
  to electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.          
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 110. For         
  competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,         
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated  
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance     
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                
Deadlines:                                                                          
  The deadline for submitting proposals for this program will be specified in the   
  next solicitation notice in 2010.                                                 


                                                                               11-08
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The next award will not be made until 2010.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Generally, EPA incrementally funds grants and cooperative agreements for
  surveys, studies, and investigations. Approval of subsequent funding increments
  is dependent on satisfactory project progress, continued relevance of the project
  to the Environmental Education Division's program priorities, and the
  availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  In accordance with the National Environmental Education Act (Public Law 101-
  619), federal funds for any project under this section shall not exceed 75 percent
  of the total cost of such project. The project has a 25 percent non-federal match
  required by statutory formula. For the purposes of this section, the nonFederal
  share of project costs may be provided by cash or by in-kind contributions and
  other non-cash support.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The training program consists of an initial one year budget and project period
  subject to annual supplemental funding agreements for up to five years.
Reports:
  The grantee must submit bi-annual and final progress reports.
Audits:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, including all documents to support entries on accounting
  records and to substantiate changes to each assistance agreement, must be kept
  available to personnel authorized to examine EPA assistance accounts. All
  records must be maintained until the expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions still remain, such as
  those raised as the result of an audit, related records should be retained until the
  matter is completely resolved.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $837,000; FY 08 $2,209,000; FY 09 est $17,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  This is a 5-year program, one recipient is selected every 5 years. The project is
  funded on an annual basis and the amount of the annual funding depends on
  Congressional appropriation. The range and average financial assistance for the
  full 5-year project period is approximately $8.5 million.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  (1) Trained over 80,000 teachers and other education professionals in
  scientifically-sound and pedagogically-effective environmental education; (2)
  published a series of national environmental education guidelines for:
  environmental education materials, what students need to know about the
  environment to become environmentally literate, what educators need to know to
  teach effectively about the environment, and what constitutes effective non-
  formal programs; (3) provided leadership and strategic planning training and
  support to more than 25 states to ensure coordinated and effective statewide
  environmental education programs; (4) supported state environmental education
  certification efforts in four states; (5) developed three university accredited on-
  line environmental education courses that introduce educators to environmental
  education, teach educators how to evaluate environmental education programs,
  and help EE programs reach culturally diverse audiences; and (6) developed and
  maintained a state-of-the-art Internet site to enable educators to access quality
  information and resources about environmental education. More information on
  program accomplishments is available at http://www.eetap.org.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  40 CFR Parts 30, 31, 32, 33, 45, 47; program guidance; Federal Register
  (Invitation for Pre-proposal, July 2, 1991); Public Law 101-619.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the appropriate EPA Regional Office listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
                                                                                   1045
