  Kathleen MacKinnon, Environmental Education Specialist, Environmental              
  Education Division, (1704A), Environmental Protection Agency, 1200                 
  Pennsylvania Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20460. Telephone: (202) 564-0454.            
  Fax: (202) 564-2754. E-mail: mackinnon.kathleen@epa.gov.                           
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.epa.gov/enviroed.                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  66.951, Environmental Education Grants.                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Environmental education activities such as training for in-service and pre-        
  service educators; promotion of the national environmental education guidelines;   
  support for state capacity building; the development of a materials review         
  process; support for accreditation efforts at universities; support for state      
  educator certification programs; and support for internet access to information    
  and materials. More information is available at http://www.eetap.org.              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Priorities for selecting proposals are listed in Section 5 of Public Law 101-619,  
  National Environmental Education Act. The evaluation and selection criteria for    
  competitive awards under this CFDA description will be described in the            
  competitive announcement.                                                          
                                                                                     
66.951 ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION GRANTS                                                
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL EDUCATION, ENVIRONMENTAL                                   
  PROTECTION AGENCY                                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  National Environmental Education Act, Section 6; Public Law 101-619.               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To support projects to design, demonstrate, or disseminate practices, methods, or  
  techniques related to environmental education and teacher training. As required    
  by Public Law 101-619, this grant program provides financial support for           
  environmental education projects implemented by schools, universities, state and   
  local government environmental and educational agencies, tribal education          
  agencies, and nonprofit 501 (c)(3) organizations. Funding Priority - Fiscal Year   
  2008: All grant projects must address one of the following educational priorities: 
  (1) Capacity Building: Increasing capacity to develop and deliver coordinated      
  environmental education programs across a state or across multiple states. Steps   
  include developing effective leaders and organizations which create strategic      
  plans to implement and link environmental education programs to promote long       
  term programs and to decrease fragmentation of effort and duplication across       
  programs; (2) Education Reform: Utilizing environmental education as a catalyst    
  to advance state or local education reform goals; (3) Community Stewardship:       
  Designing and implementing model projects to educate the public about              
  environmental issues issues in their communities through state and local           
  government and community based organizations or through print, film,               
  broadcast, or other media; (4) Health: Educating teachers, students, community     
  leaders, or the public about human-health threats from environmental pollution,    
  especially as it affects children, and how to minimize human exposure to           
  preserve good health; (5) Teaching Skills: Providing professional development      
  for teachers, faculty, or non-formal educators about environmental issues and      
  content, such as sustainabiltiy, to improve environmental education skills; or (6) 
  Career Development: Educating students in formal or non-formal settings about      
  environmental issues to encourage environmental careers. Funding Priority -        
  Fiscal Year 2009: It is anticipated that the 2009 funding priorities will be very  
  similar, if not the same as the previous priorities.                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grant funds shall be used to establish an education program which shall include,   
  at a minimum: (1) design, demonstration, or dissemination of environmental         
  curricula and materials on specific topics for which there are no existing         
  materials; (2) design and demonstration of field methods, practices, and           
  techniques, including review of environmental and ecological conditions and        
  analysis of environmental and pollution problems; (3) projects to understand and   
  evaluate a specific environmental issue or a specific environmental problem; (4)   
  provision of training or related education for teachers, faculty, or related       
  personnel in a specific geographic area or region; and (5) design and              
  demonstration of projects to foster international cooperation in addressing        
  environmental issues and problems involving the United States and Canada or        
  Mexico. Priority will be given to those projects which will develop: (a) a new or  
  significantly improved environmental education practice, method, or technique;     
  (b) an environmental education method which may have wide application; (c) an      
  environmental education method which addresses skills or scientific fields         
  identified as a priority in the report developed by the National Environmental     
  Education Advisory Council; and (d) an environmental education project which       
  addresses an environmental issue which, in the judgment of the Administrator, is   
  of a high priority. More specific priorities are listed above under Objectives and 
  are specified in the annual Solicitation Notice. Restrictions: No funds made       
  available for this program shall be used for technical training of environmental   


1046                                                                           11-08

  management professionals; for advocacy or lobbying; for acquisition of real
  property (including buildings); or the construction or substantial modification of
  any building. Assistance agreement awards under this program may involve or
  relate to geospatial information. Further information regarding geospatial
  information may be obtained by viewing the following website:
  http://geodata.epa.gov.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance under this program is generally available to local education agencies,
  colleges and universities, state education and environmental agencies, nonprofit
  organizations described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Service,
  and noncommercial educational broadcasting entities as defined and licensed by
  the Federal Communications Commission. Applicant organizations must be
  located in the United States or territories and the majority of the educational
  activities must take place in the United States, Canada, or Mexico. For certain
  competitive funding opportunities under this CFDA description, the Agency
  may limit eligibility to compete to a number or subset of eligible applicants
  consistent with the Agency's Assistance Agreement Competition Policy.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Education (0-8), education (9-12), education (13+), nonprofit institutions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation of nonprofit status may be required. Applicants must
  demonstrate that they have appropriate background, academic training, and
  experience in the field, and may be asked to demonstrate the necessary
  equipment or facilities to carry out the project.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The annual solicitation notice for proposals and grant writing tips are available
  on the Agency's website listed below. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372. Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with
  respect to competitive funding opportunities under this program description,
  EPA will generally specify the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal
  assistance, if any, that will be available to applicants in the competitive
  announcement. For additional information, contact the individual(s) listed as
  "Information Contacts" or see Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants are accepted on an annual grant cycle and are due at the deadline
  stated below. Applicants submit an application package in the format required in
  the annual Solicitation Notice. Applicants submit an application package to their
  respective EPA Regional Grants Management Offices for grants requesting
  $50,000 or less in Federal funds; and to the EPA Headquarters for larger grants.
  Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to electronically apply for
  certain grant opportunities under this CFDA. However, where possible it is
  preferable to submit applications and attachments on paper via mail or delivery
  services.
Award Procedure:
  Applications for a Federal share of $50,000 or less are to be submitted to and
  evaluated by the respective EPA Regional Offices. Applications for a larger
  Federal dollar amount are to be submitted to and evaluated by the Office of
  Environmental Education, (1704A), 1200 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W.,
  Washington, DC 20460. For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate
  applications, proposals, and/or submissions in accordance with the terms,
  conditions, and criteria stated in the competitive announcement. Competitions
  will be conducted in accordance with EPA policies/regulations for competing
  assistance agreements. The Agency will then advise the applicant if funding is
  being considered. A final work plan will then be negotiated with the applicant.
  All awards are competed through the annual announcement and no proposals are
  awarded non-competitively.
Deadlines:
  The grant application funding for the 2009 grant cycle is uncertain because
  Congress will determine if there will or will not be an appropriation for this
  grant program. If there is an appropriation for these grants, it is anticipated that
  the application deadline will be in December of 2008. Applications are evaluated
  and scored by internal EPA and external peer reviewers during the winter
  months and grants are awarded in the summer months.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 180 days.
Appeals:
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.
Renewals:
  None. Grants proposals are evaluated annually on a competitive basis.
  Therefore, applicants should not plan for renewals.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  In accordance with the National Environmental Education Act (Public Law 101-
  619), federal funds for any project under this section shall not exceed 75 percent
  of the total cost of such project. The project has a 25 percent non-federal match
  required by statutory formula. For the purposes of this section, the non-federal
