  program if the applicant is a graduating senior.                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Regarding pre-application/pre-proposal assistance with respect to competitive        
  funding opportunities under this program description, EPA will generally specify     
  the nature of the pre-application/pre-proposal assistance, if any, that will be      
  available to applicants in the competitive announcement. For additional              
  information, contact the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts" or see       
  Appendix IV of the Catalog. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.        
  12372.                                                                               
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Students who are interested in applying for a NNEMS fellowship must submit           
  four complete application packages (one original and three copies) that include:     
  (1) A completed NNEMS application, (2) SF 424, (3) A resume, (4) A                   
  completed NNEMS reference form, (5) A completed NNEMS Disclosure and                 
  Waiver Statement, (6) Verification of acceptance and/or enrollment in a              
  graduate or Ph.D. program if the applicant is a graduating senior, and (7) An        
  official transcript for each 2-or 4-year college or university, or distance learning 
  institution attended. Official transcripts should be opened and photocopied as       
  three copies. NNEMS application forms can be obtained on our web site at:            
  www.epa.gov/enviroed. Applicants must submit their completed application             
  package to: NNEMS Fellowship Program, Tetra Tech EM Inc., 1881 Campus                
  Commons Drive, Suite 200, Reston, VA 20191. Students selected for a NNEMS            
  Fellowship must fill out a Fellowship Application (EPA Form 5770-2), a               
  Fellowship Facilities and Commitment Statement (5770-3), and a NNEMS                 
  Fellowship Application. Applicants may be able to use http://www.grants.gov to       
  electronically apply for certain grant opportunities under this CFDA.                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  For competitive awards, EPA will review and evaluate applications, proposals,        
  and/or submissions in accordance with the terms, conditions, and criteria stated     
  in the competitive announcement. Competitions will be conducted in accordance        
  with EPA policies/regulations for competing assistance agreements.                   
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Completed application packages are generally due in late January. The exact          
  date is specified annually in the catalog that lists the fellowship projects         
  available for the current year. That catalog is available at www.epa.gov/enviroed    
  and on many college campuses where reference documents for financial                 
  opportunites are located.                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 120 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                               
  Assistance agreement competition-related disputes will be resolved in                
  accordance with the dispute resolution procedures published in 70 FR (Federal        
  Register) 3629, 3630 (January 26, 2005). Copies of these procedures may also         
  be requested by contacting the individual(s) listed as "Information Contacts."       
  Disputes relating to matters other than the competitive selection of recipients      
  will be resolved under 40 CFR 30.63 or 40 CFR 31.70, as applicable.                  
Renewals:                                                                              
  Grants are solicited through competitions and are not renewed.                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  NNEMS Fellowships are awarded for three months full-time and up to three             
  years part-time. Students receive payment in the form of a stipend typically paid    
  in equal monthly payments throughout the duration of the fellowship period.          
Reports:                                                                               
  Reporting requirements will be stated in the Terms and Conditions of the official    
  grant award documents. Recipients must submit original final reports to both the     
  EPA Project Officer and to the Office of Environmental Education NNEMS               
  Coordinator. The final report should be submitted on the last day of the             
  fellowship. Unless directed otherwise by the EPA Project Officer, the final report   
  should summarize the specific project undertaken by the student and the project      
  results.                                                                             
Audits:                                                                                
  Grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspections and audits by the       
  Comptroller General of the United States, the EPA Office of Inspector General,       
  other EPA staff, or any authorized representative of the Federal government.         
  Reviews by the EPA Project Officer and the Grants Specialist may occur each          
  year. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,          
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                 
  Organizations," non-federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in       
  Federal awards shall have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:                                                                               
  Pursuant to 40 CFR Part 46- Fellowships, Subpart E-46.230, Closeout                  
  Procedures: NNEMS Fellows must retain all records related to the fellowship for      
  3 years following the completion date identified on the Completion of Studies        
  Notice. The EPA, the Inspector General, and the Comptroller General of the           
  United States, and any duly authorized representatives have the right of timely      


1048                                                                             11-08

  and unrestricted access to a student's documents, papers, or other records related
  to a fellowship in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, transcripts, and
  copies of such documents. The rights of access in this paragraph are not limited
  to the required retention period but shall last as long as those records are
  retained.
Account Identification:
  68-0108-0-1-304.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $221,335; FY 08 $217,859; and FY 09 est $235,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Recipients of NNEMS fellowships receive a grant award in the form of a
  stipend, based on the student's level of education and the duration and location
  of the project. Grant awards range from approximately $7,400.00 to $12,600.00
  per award for a 3-month, full-time period. The average award is for
  approximately $10,000.00.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Each year, the NNEMS program offers approximately 20 to 25 research projects,
  developed and sponsored by EPA Headquarters in Washington, DC and in
  EPA's 10 regional offices and laboratories throughout the EPA has awarded
  nearly 1,400 fellowships under the NNEMS program since its inception in 1986.
  Each year, EPA announces the available projects offered by EPA offices and
  students from colleges and universities nationwide make application to do the
  research or other environmental studies and tasks that are educational and
  promote environmental careers. In 2007, 138 applications were received and 16
  applicants were awarded a NNEMS fellowship of which the average stipend
  amount was about $14,000. In 2008, 142 applications were received and 18
  applicants were awarded a NNEMS fellowship with the average amount of the
  stipend being about $13,000. In 2009 EPA anticipates approximately 20
  applicants will be awarded a fellowship, with $235,000.00 as the estimated total
  amount of awards.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  40 CFR Part 46-Fellowships and 40 CFR Part 30-General Regulations for
  Assistance Programs.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  For additional information on the NNEMS program, please contact: Michael
  Baker, Office of Environmental Education (MC1704A), Environmental
  Protection Agency, 1200 Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington DC 20460.
  Telephone: (202) 564-0443. Fax: (202) 564-2754. E-mail:
  baker.michael@epa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.epa.gov/enviroed/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  66.509, Science To Achieve Results (STAR) Research Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  NNEMS fellows are placed in EPA Headquarters and Regional offices and
  laboratories nationwide. They work on a variety of EPA developed research
  projects and environmental topics relating to the following five categories:
  Environmental Policy, Regulation, and Law; Environmental Management and
  Administration; Environmental Science; Public Relations and Communications;
  and Computer Programming and Development. Examples of projects offered by
  the NNEMS fellowship program relating to the above categories are as follows:
  1) Environmental Policy, Regulation and Law: Fellowships offered in this
  category may provide students an opportunity to review and evaluate existing
  policies and regulations, or perhaps conduct research related to the development
  of new policies. A recently funded project involved a student researching and
  assessing a variety of air pollution control strategies designed to reduce
  particulate matter and ozone in order to reach the nation's air quality goals. 2)
  Environmental Management and Administration: The fellowships offered in this
  category may focus on environmental management goals. A recently funded
  project involved a student conducting research to identify contaminated
  superfund sites that have the potential for beneficial reuse. 3) Environmental
  Science: Research projects in this category typically include direct participation
  in field studies and laboratory research. A recently funded project involved a
  student researching, compiling, and analyzing information on laboratory and
  field research and demonstration projects using bioremediation to address dense
  non-aqueous phase liquid contamination at hazardous waste sites. 4) Public
  Relations and Communications: These types of projects may include the review
  and analysis of public response to EPA policies and regulations, as well as
  general public opinion of environmental issues. These projects may also include
  assisting with the development of communication tools. A recently funded
  project involved researching and analyzing environmental information of interest
  to the public, researching and recommending information to include in press
  releases, and gaining knowledge and experience in how the Agency prepares for
  special press events. 5) Computer Programming and Development: These
  research projects may include the development of computer software, the
  development and querying of databases, or the design of programming functions
  required in laboratory work. A past funded project involved researching and
  collecting specific data about children's health, risks of exposure, and possible
