                                 OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION

70.002 FOREIGN INVESTMENT FINANCING                                                 
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, Title IV, Section 234(b) and 234(c), Public Law   
  91-175, 22 U.S.C. 2191, et seq.                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide financing for projects sponsored by private U.S. businesses in         
  developing countries and emerging economies throughout the world, thereby         
  assisting development goals and improving U.S. competitiveness, creating          
  American jobs and increasing Unites States exports.                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  To provide financing for investments in developing countries in projects that

                                                                                    
  contribute to the economic and social development of the host country and have

                                                                                    
  a positive impact on the U.S. economy. OPIC screens out projects that might

                                                                                    
  have a negative effect on U.S. employment or the host country's development or

                                                                                    
  the environment, or would contribute to the violation of internationally          
  recognized worker rights. Direct loans can only be made to private sector         
  projects in which there is significant involvement by an U.S. small business.     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Guaranteed investor must be citizen of the United States, a corporation,          
  partnership, or other association created under the laws of the United States or  
  any State or territory, and more than 50 percent beneficially owned by U.S.       
  Citizens; a foreign corporation at least 95 percent owned by such entities; or a  
  100 percent United States-owned foreign entity. Direct loans are reserved for     
  projects sponsored by or significantly involving United States small businesses   
  or cooperatives. Applicants also must meet OPIC's credit underwriting criteria.   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Project must have significant participation by a United States sponsor, generally 
  in the form of at least 25 percent equity ownership. OPIC does not support        
  projects that will result in the loss of U.S. jobs, that would contribute to the  
  violation of internationally recognized worker rights or involve illicit payments.
  OPIC only supports projects that contribute to the economic and social

  development of the host country.

Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                    
  OPIC Finance Application; Financial statements; OPIC sponsor disclosure           
  report; other applicable information on operations of U.S. investor, and project

  business plan. A bilateral agreement between the United States and the host       
  country government must be in place before OPIC can provide loan guaranties in    
  a country. In some cases, special foreign government approval is required before  
  financing can be provided.                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Application for Financing is required.                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  OPIC conducts extensive due diligence and project analysis. Project must be       
  approved internally and meets OPIC's credit, policy and legal criteria. Loan      
  guaranty is issued directly to the lender by OPIC, in conjunction with OPIC       
  entering into financing documentation with the borrower, U.S. sponsor and other   
  parties. Direct loan is made directly to the project company.                     
Deadlines:                                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Variable, depending on status and complexity of the project.                      
Appeals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Significant equity investment in the project company by qualified U.S. sponsor.   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Variable, depending on characteristics of the project. OPIC financing is usually  
  in the range of 5-15 years.                                                       
Reports:                                                                            
  Projects submit quarterly and annual reports on operations and capital spending,  
  and such other reports as OPIC may call for.                                      
Audits:                                                                             
  OPIC representatives monitor projects closely and may visit project and           
  interview management. Financial statements generally in accordance with the       
  United States generally accepted accounting practices must be submitted for       
  OPIC monitoring.                                                                  
Records:                                                                            
  Certain accounting records, drawdowns of all funds, and other information must    
  be available during term of financing and beyond.                                 


                                                                               11-08
Account Identification:
  71-4030-0-3-151; 71-0100-0-1-151; 71-4075-0-3-151; 71-4074-0-3-151; 71-
  4184-0-3-151.
Obligations:
  (Total Loan Commitments) FY 07 $1,950,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and
  FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $100,000 to $320,000,000; small business loans, $100,000 to $46,300,000;
  $7,143,245; non-small business loans, $1,350,000 to $250,000,000;
  $45,641,379.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since 1971, OPIC, a self-sustaining agency, has supported more than $164
  billion in U.S. investment overseas that will generate over $69 billion in U.S.
  exports and support more than 264,000 American jobs. Additionally, OPIC has
  benefited the more than 150 countries in which it has operated or is currently
  operating, supporting sustainable development and international trade while
  solidifying free markets.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  "OPIC Program Handbook," free. Web site address is http://www.opic.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Information Officer Overseas Private Investment Corporation 1100 New York
  Ave., NW, Washington, DC 20527 Telephone: (202) 336-8799. For program
  information by electronic mail: info@opic.gov .
Web Site Address:
  http://www.opic.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  70.003, Foreign Investment Insurance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of financed projects include cellular telephone networks, retail
  petroleum projects, electric power generation projects, small business
  transactions, and manufacturing and agricultural ventures.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS and ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.
70.003 FOREIGN INVESTMENT INSURANCE
   (Political Risk Insurance)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORPORATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1969, Title IV, Section 234(a), Public Law 91-175, 22
  U.S.C. 2191, et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To insure investments of eligible U.S. investors in developing countries and
  emerging markets, against the political risks of inconvertibility, expropriation,
  and political violence. Special programs include insuring (l)contractors and
  exporters against arbitrary drawings of letters of credit posted as bid,
  performance or advance payment guaranties, (2)petroleum exploration,
  development and production (3)leasing operations, and (4) debt financials,
  including securities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Insurance.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To encourage private U.S. investment in developing countries and emerging
  economies by protecting against certain political risks. Investments may be
  eligible for insurance if they benefit the social and economic development of the
  host country. OPIC will not support projects that could result in the loss of U.S.
  jobs, adversely affect the U.S. economy, have a negative impact on the host
  country's development or environment, or contribute to violations of
  internationally recognized worker rights.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Citizen of the United States; a corporation, partnership, or other association
  created under the laws of the United States or any State or territory, of which
  more than 50 percent is beneficially owned by U.S. citizens; a foreign
  corporation at least 95 percent owned by such entities; or any other 100 percent
  U.S.-owned foreign entity.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  OPIC does not support projects that will result in the loss of U.S. jobs, that have
  a negative impact on the host country's economy or environment, or contribute
  to violations of internationally recognized worker rights. OPIC only supports
  projects that contribute to the economic and social development of the host
  country.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A bilateral agreement between the United States and the host country
  government must be in place before OPIC can provide insurance for a given
                                                                                  1051
