  country. Additionally, special project approval by the foreign government is

  required in some countries before insurance can be provided.

Preapplication Coordination:

  Registration letter. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:

  The insurance program has a two-step application process. Investors must first

  register their projects with OPIC before making an irrevocable commitment to

  invest. Once the details of the investment have been established, an application

  for insurance coverage is filed. OPIC charges a retainer fee after the submission

  of an application for insurance in order to proceed with review of the project.

  Registration and application forms are available on request from the Insurance

  Applications Officer, Overseas Private Investment Corporation, 1100 New York

  Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20527, or on OPIC's website: www.opic.gov.

Award Procedure:

  Insurance is issued directly to the applicant by OPIC, or through a broker if the

  investor so chooses.

Deadlines:

  Registration must be made prior to making an irrevocable commitment to invest.

   The registration remains active at OPIC for 2 years.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Will vary depending on size and complexity of project.

Appeals:

  Not applicable.

Renewals:

  OPIC insurance contracts can be offered at fixed rates for up to 20 years.

  Investor has the opportunity to change insurance elections annually or semi-

  annually. Policies are non-cancelable by OPIC, provided that investor is paying

  premiums and is not in material breach of the contract.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Not applicable. In most cases, insured must retain at least 10 percent of the risk

  as self- insurance.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Maximum insurance term is 20 years for equity investment; for loans, the term

  of the loan; for contracts, the term of the contract.

Reports:

  Annual or semi-annual election of current coverage, annual or semi-annual

  payment of premiums, and such information as may be requested by OPIC to

  monitor the project or to make a determination in the case of a claim for

  compensation.

Audits:

  Not applicable.

Records:

  When claim for compensation is pending and after such payment is made, the

  investor has a duty to cooperate with OPIC in supplying all information

  requested pertaining to the claim. These responsibilities are clearly spelled out in

  each insurance contract.

Account Identification:

  71-4184-0-3-151.

Obligations:

  (Insurance Issued) (Aggregate Maximum Insured Amount) FY 07

  $1,200,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  Up to $250,000,000; $12,244,695.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  Since 1971, OPIC, a self-sustaining agency, has supported more than $164

  billion in U.S. investment overseas that will generate $69 billion in U.S. exports

  and support more than 264,000 American jobs. Additionally, OPIC has

  benefited the more than 150 countries in which it has operated or is currently

  operating, supporting sustainable development and international trade while

  solidifying free markets.

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  "OPIC Program Handbook," free.

Regional or Local Office:

  None.

Headquarters Office:

  Information Officer Overseas Private Investment Corporation 1100 New York

  Ave., NW. Washington, DC 20527. Telephone: (202) 336-8799. For program

  information by electronic mail: info@opic.gov .

Web Site Address:

  http://www.opic.gov .

RELATED PROGRAMS:

  70.002, Foreign Investment Financing.

EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Examples of insured projects include: private power generation, mining,

  petroleum, telecommunications, commercial bank, oil and gas processing

  equipment, construction, food processing, equipment leasing, etc.

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  See USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS and ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS.









1052                                                                             11-08

