                                               NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION

77.006 U. S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION                                             
                                                                                       
NUCLEAR EDUCATION GRANT PROGRAM                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Energy Policy Act of 2005, Section 651,c,1, Public Law 109-58.                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide assistance to colleges and universities in support of courses, studies,   
  training, curricula, and disciplines relevant to nuclear safety, security,           
  environmental protection, or any other field that the Commission determines to       
  be critical to its regulatory mission.                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Financial support in whole or part may be provided for such purposes as the          
  salaries, materials and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs, training     
  costs, and services required for conducting research, training, and related          
  activities. Restrictions on use of funds depend on grant provisions. Funding is      
  provided for the purpose of improving or supporting curricula that does not

  necessarily duplicate work already in process or contemplated by NRC, is not         
  already known to NRC, or has previously unrecognized merit.

Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Applicants can be U.S. public and private institutions of higher education.          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  U.S. public and private institutions of higher education will benefit.               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for                
  institutions of higher education. Costs will be determined in accordance with        
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for state and local governments.                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Letters of Intent are required. This program is excluded from coverage under         
  E.O. 12372.                                                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Proposals should be submitted as specified in the funding opportunity                
  announcement that will be posted at www.grants.gov .                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Proposals will be screened for relevance and then reviewed for scientific and        
  technical merit by qualified individuals. Recommendations for award are made         
  by the review panel via the U. S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission Office of            
  Human Resources Training Division, and the selected proposals will be                
  forwarded to the U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Office of                       
  Administration, Division of Contracts, for grant development and award.              
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Deadlines are stated in the solicitations.                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 90-180 days.                                                           
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Proposals for renewal are subject to review and acceptance by the U.S. Nuclear

                                                                                       
  Regulatory Commission Office of Human Resources Training Division.

                                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no statutory formula.

                                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                       
  The schedule of NRC payments is arranged at the time of award.

                                                                                       
Reports:

                                                                                       
  The following reports are required: Progress Reports, Financial Status Reports,

                                                                                       
  and Final Report. These requirements are also specified in the solicitation.

                                                                                       
Audits:

                                                                                       
  Costs incurred are subject to audit throughout the grant period and/or before the

                                                                                       
  final payment, with the extent and frequency of audit depending on the size of

                                                                                       
  the grant and on the particular grant provisions.

                                                                                       
Records:

                                                                                       
  Recipient is expected to maintain auditable records to substantiate the total costs

                                                                                       
  incurred under the grant.

                                                                                       
Account Identification:

                                                                                       
  31-0200-0-1-276.

                                                                                       
Obligations:

  FY 07 est $4,700,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $200,000 to $4,700,000.                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  The assistance supported helps to provide assistance to colleges and universities    
  to support courses, studies, training, curricula and disciplines relevant to nuclear 
  safety, security and environmental protection.                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  None.                                                                                
                                                                                       


                                                                                  11-08
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Two White Flint North, 11545 Rockville
  Pike, Rockville, MD 20852. Mail Stop T-7-I-2, Washington, DC 20555-0001.
  Telephone: (301) 415-7856.
Web Site Address:
  www.nrc.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Soundness of the proposed approach including objectives, methodology, plan of
  operation, timetable, expected products and results, evaluation, and
  dissemination plans. The capability to perform the project to the degree to which
  the project will strengthen its teaching or research capacity. Qualifications of the
  applicant's personnel. The total budget adequately supports the project and is
  effective.
77.007 U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
MINORITY SERVING INSTITUTIONS PROGRAM (MSIP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Energy Policy Act of 2005, Sections 651,c,4 and 622, Public Law 109-58;
  Executive Orders 13256, 13270 and 13230.
OBJECTIVES:
  To fund minority serving programs and activities, projects, symposiums, and
  training for the exchange and transfer of knowledge and skills relevant to nuclear
  safety, security, environmental protection, or any other fields the Commission
  deems critical to its mission. To provide assistance for minority serving
  programs and activities to include, but not limited to, mentoring, leadership
  development, training, instruction, developmental learning, research and
  development, program evaluation, and technical assistance. To provide
  assistance to include direct institutional subsides, facilities and equipment
  acquisition, internships, fellowships, scholarships, and tuition and housing
  assistance.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Financial support in whole or in part may be provided for such purposes as
  salaries, stipends, materials and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs,
  training costs, and services required for conducting research, training and related
  activities. Restrictions on use of funds depend on grant provisions, the nature of
  assistance provided, and the purpose(s) for which the programs and activities
  were funded to achieve.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Minority Serving Institutions and organizations that provide services to Minority
  Serving Institutions and their students and faculty.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  U.S. public and private Minority Serving Institutions and their students and
  facility will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  institutions of higher education. Costs will be determined in accordance with
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Letters of Intent are required. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals should be submitted as specified in the funding opportunity
  announcement that will be posted at www.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals will be screened for relevance, and, where required, reviewed for
  scientific and technical merit by qualified individuals. Recommendations for
  award are made by the review panel via U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission
  Office of Small Business and Civil Rights (SBCR), and the selected proposals
  will be forwarded to U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Office of
  Administration, Division of Contracts for development and award.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are stated in the solicitations.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90-180 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
                                                                                   1053
