  Proposals for renewal are subject to review and acceptance by the Nuclear             
  Regulatory Commission Office of Small Business and Civil Rights.                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This program has no statutory formula.                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  The schedule of NRC payments is arranged at the time of award.                        
Reports:                                                                                
  Upon receipt of an award, the following reports are required: Progress Reports,       
  Financial Status Reports, Final Report and Compliance Reports as required by          
  applicable civil rights statutes and regulations. These requirements will be          
  specified in the solicitation, and as a condition of funding.                         
Audits:                                                                                 
  Costs incurred are subject to audit throughout the grant/cooperative agreement        
  period and/or before final payment, with the extent and frequency of audit            
  depending on the size and nature of the grant/cooperative agreement and on the        
  particular grant/cooperative agreement provisions.                                    
Records:                                                                                
  Recipient is expected to maintain accurate auditable records to substantiate total    
  cost incurred under the grant/cooperative agreement.                                  
Account Identification:                                                                 
  31-0200-0-1-276.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $900,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Undetermined.                                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  The assistance provided helps to establish partnership programs, stimulate            
  renewed academic interest, strengthen the educational infrastructure and educate      
  and train the next generation nuclear workforce.                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Two White Flint North, 11545 Rockville            
  Pike, Rockville, MD 20852. Mailing Address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory                   
  Commission, Mail Stop T-7-I-2, Washington, DC 20555-001. MSIP Contact                 
  Telephone: (301) 415-7380.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  www.nrc.gov .                                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Soundness of the proposed approach including objectives, methodology, plan of         
  operation, timetable, expected products and results, evaluation and                   
  dissemination plans. The capability to perform the project. Qualifications of         
  applicant's personnel. The total budget adequately supports the project and is        
  effective.                                                                            
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
77.008 U.S. NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION                                               
SCHOLARSHIP AND FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISION                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Energy Policy Act of 2005 (Section 243).                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  This Scholarship and Fellowship program allows students to pursue an education        
  in science, engineering, or another field of study that the Commission                
  determines is in a critical skill area related to its regulatory mission. Recipients  
  need to be enrolled in a professional degree or graduate program offered by a         
  four year institution of higher education in the United States. Recipients of         
                                                                                        
  scholarships and fellowships must commit to employment by the Commission.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  This program provides funding to four year institutions of higher education to        
  provide scholarships, fellowships and stipends to develop a cadre of nuclear          
  professionals. Funds are managed by the awardee institution. Primary                  
  responsibility for general supervision of all grant activities rests with the grantee 
  institution. Funds many not be used for purposes other than those specified in        
  the award. Fellowships, Scholarship and stipends to be paid to the awardee            
  directly through his/her institution. Recipients are required to enter in an

  agreement for employment with the NRC for a period equal to the level of

  support received.

Applicant Eligibility:

  Applicants must be four year U.S. public and private institutions of higher

  education.

Beneficiary Eligibility:

1054                                                                              11-08

  Undergraduate and graduate students. Four year public and private intuitions of
  higher education.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposals must be signed electronically by an official authorized to commit the
  institution in business and financial affairs and who can commit the
  organization to certain proposal certifications. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for colleges and universities.
  Applicants for scholarship and fellowship support must show evidence of ability
  such as academic records, and grade point average.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals should be submitted as specified in the funding opportunity
  announcement posted at www.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are processed by the assigned staff and approved by the
  Commission based on a set of criteria established by the NRC.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are stated in the solicitations.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90-180 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Proposals for renewal are subject to review and acceptance by the U.S. Nuclear
  Regulatory Commission office of Human Resources Training Division.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The schedule of NRC payments is arranged at the time of award.
Reports:
  The schedule of reports is arranged at the time of negotiation.
Audits:
  The extent and frequency of audits depend on the size of the grant and the
  particular grant provisions.
Records:
  Awardee is expected to maintain auditable records to substantiate total costs
  incurred under the agreement.
Account Identification:
  31-0200-0-1-276.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $400,000; FY 08 $400,000; and FY 09 est not reported. Funds are
  subject to annual appropriations.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $50,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is anticipated that approximately 8-10 awards will be made resulting in
  approximately 40-50 fellowships and or scholarships.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Not applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission, One White Flint North, 11555 Rockville
  Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852 and Two White Flint North, 11545 Rockville
  Pike, Rockville, Maryland 20852.Mailing Address: U.S. Nuclear Regulatory
  Commission Washington, D.C. 20555-0001. Telephone (301) 415-7000.
Web Site Address:
  www.nrc.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable. New authority.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Capacity and ability of the institution to effectively conduct the program.
  Number and quality of students that will be served by the program. Justification
  for number of students served and amount of stipend and scholarship support.
  Quality and feasibility of recruitment and marketing strategies. Quality of
  technical programs for scholarship/fellowship programs. Type of student
  support, i.e. mentoring or advisor assistance Feasibility and completeness of an
  evaluation plan that will measure the effectiveness of the scholarship/fellowship
  program Institutional support for the program and the extent to which the
  institution is committed to making the program an organizational focus. Plans
  for sustainability. Additional merit review considerations apply.
