  Project Office - National Energy Technology Laboratory, P.O. Box 10940,          
  Pittsburgh, PA 15236. Contact: Ms. Paula Flenory, Telephone (412) 386-4781.      
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Office of Advanced Research, Assistant Secretary of Fossil Energy, Washington,   
  DC 20585. Contact: Fred Glaser. Telephone: (301) 903-2786.                       
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.netl.doe.gov/technologies/coalpower/advresearch/.                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  81.089, Fossil Energy Research and Development.                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  In 2008, within the board area of Enabling Advanced Modeling and Simulation      
  for Fuel-Flexible Combustors, projects were awarded in two the subtopic areas    
  that follows: 1) Quantify Current Prediction Capability for Flashback and Lean   
  Blowout, and Identify The Sensitivity to Physical Sub-Models and 2) Conduct      
  Numeric Investigations of Boundary Condition Effects On CFD Simulations of       
  Thermo-Acoustic Instabilities.                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Emphasis is on the scientific and technical merit of the proposed research and   
  the factors listed as generic goals in the formal solicitation for proposals.    
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
81.064 OFFICE OF SCIENTIFIC AND TECHNICAL                                          
INFORMATION                                                                        
                                                                                   
   (OSTI)                                                                          
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  OFFICE OF SCIENCE, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  42 U.S.C. 7151 (A); 42 U.S.C. 7112 (5).

                                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                   
  To advance science and sustain technological creativity by making R&D

                                                                                   
  findings available and useful to the Department of Energy (DOE) researchers

                                                                                   
  and the American people. To collect, preserve, disseminate, and leverage the

                                                                                   
  scientific and technical information (STI) resources of DOE in order to provide

                                                                                   
  access to national and global STI for use by DOE, the scientific research

                                                                                   
  community, academia, US industry, and the public to expand the knowledge

                                                                                   
  base of science and technology. To acquire domestic and international

                                                                                   
  information of interest to DOE and the scientific community through

                                                                                   
  partnerships with U.S. agencies and over 120 countries and international

                                                                                   
  organizations.

                                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                   
  Dissemination of Technical Information.

                                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  The Scientific and Technical Information (STI) produced through DOE and its      
  predecessor agencies includes information from the broad range of science        
  disciplines of interest to the Energy Department mission. OSTI is the sole source
  of specialized collections containing results of closed-out DOE research and     
  development projects. OSTI provides information services to DOE and DOE          
  contractor organizations and makes Energy Department information publicly        
  available through a suite of OSTI Web tools and services. Most information       
  services are provided electronically through databases and full-text compilations
  at no cost. Some collections result from partnerships with other national and    
  international governmental agencies.                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  State and local governments and universities that are DOE contractors are        
  provided electronic access to Energy Department information in specific areas of 
  concern. Energy information exchange agreements may be made with non-DOE         
  affiliates, universities and other organizations involved in energy-related      
  research. Public access to R&D documents is also available through the National  
  Technical Information Service (NTIS) and the Government Printing Office          
  (GPO).                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  DOE federal employees and contractors are primary beneficiaries of DOE STI       
  collections in their specific areas of concern. Although most Web-based          
  collections are available to the general public through official government      
  outlets, limited-access databases contain information restricted by international
  exchange agreements or other access restrictions.                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and          
  E.O. 12372.                                                                      
Application Procedure:                                                             
  By written or telephone inquiry to the information contacts shown below. This    
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.                  
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  None.                                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                         
  None.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                


                                                                              11-08
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  89-0230-0-1-270.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and Expenses); FY 07 $8,600,000; FY 08 est $8,700,000 and FY 09
  est $8,900,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In 2007, OSTI developed and launched the DOE Science Accelerator
  (http://www.ScienceAccelerator.gov) which searches across key DOE databases
  with one query. The Energy Citations Database
  (http://www.osti.gov/energycitations) contains over 2.2 million references to
  research results. Over 1.5 million full-text reports of research results reside in a
  centralized repository, and harvested citations link to thousands more at DOE
  and DOE contractor sites. The Information Bridge: DOE Scientific and
  Technical Information (full-text DOE research and development reports,
  (http://www.osti.gov/bridge) contains more than 170,000 full-text reports. The
  E-print Network: Research Communications for Scientists and Engineers
  (http://www.osti.gov/eprints) provides full-text searching of more than 5 million
  e-prints from scientific Web sites and databases.. Also included is a searchable
  compendium of over 3,000 scientific societies. A relevancy tool was added in
  FY 04 to rank search results. DOE Research and Development (R&D) Project
  Summaries (http://www.osti.gov/rdprojects) contains information on
  approximately 30,000 active DOE-sponsored research projects. Energy Files
  (http://www.osti.gov/energyfiles), a virtual library of information and resources
  pertaining to energy science and technology, provides single- query searching
  across more than 500 information resources. Science Conference Proceedings
  (http://www.osti.gov/scienceconferences) provides access to science and
  technology conference papers and proceedings from a number of authoritative
  sites whose areas of interest in the physical sciences and technology intersect
  with those of DOE. DOepatents (http://www.osti.gov/doepatents) is DOE's
  central collection of patent information, and demonstrates the Department's
  considerable contribution to scientific progress from the 1940s to the present.
  The Energy Science and Technology Software Center searches and distributes
  federally funded scientific and technical software developed by the national
  laboratories, other facilities and DOE contractors. Science.gov
  (http://www.science.gov), the USA.gov portal for science information, provides
  integrated searching of and access to government-sponsored research results and
  science information with a single query. Search enhancements, including
  relevancy ranking, have been implemented, along with a user-customized Alert
  Service to deliver relevant information about the most current science
  developments to desktops each Monday. OSTI hosts and provides deep Web
  search capability to Science.gov, a collaboration of 17 information organizations
  from 13 R&D federal agencies. The deep Web search allows a user to search
  government databases, regardless of which agency has the data or how that data
  is stored. In 2007, OSTI developed WorldWideScience.org, a global science
  gateway to over 200 million pages of science information from science portals
  residing on every inhabited continent. Science.gov is the U.S. contribution to
  WorldWideScience.org. FY 07 data show more than 74 million user transactions
  for Web products maintained on OSTI servers.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OSTI announces and makes available research and development reports and
  current awareness publications which are available on the World Wide Web via
  the OSTI Home Page at http://www.osti.gov. Policy and practices related to
  DOE's Scientific and Technical Information Program are available at
  http://www.osti.gov/stip.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  DOE Office of Science, Office of Scientific and Technical Information, Office
  of Program Integration, 1 Science.gov Way, Oak Ridge, TN 37831. Contact:
  Sharon Jordan, Assistant Director, Program Integration (865) 576-1194,
  jordans@osti.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.osti.gov
                                                                                   1061
