RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  11.650, National Technical Information Service; 40.001, Depository Libraries        
  for Government Publications.                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
81.065 NUCLEAR WASTE DISPOSAL SITING                                                  
                                                                                      
   (Consultation and Cooperation Financial Assistance)                                
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CIVILIAN RADIOACTIVE WASTE MANAGEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                
  ENERGY                                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Nuclear Waste Policy Act (NWPA), Sections 116, 118, 219, 302, Public Law            
  97-425; Nuclear Waste Policy Amendments Act of 1987, Public Law 100-159.            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide for the development of repositories for the disposal of high-level       
  radioactive waste and spent nuclear fuel; to establish a program of research,       
  development, and demonstration regarding the disposal of high-level radioactive     
  waste and spent nuclear fuel; and for other purposes.                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments for Specified Use; Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Financial and technical assistance is provided by Direct Payments for Specified     
  Uses or Project Grants (cooperative agreements) to review potential economic,       
  social, public health and safety, and environmental impacts; develop requests for   
  impact and mitigation assistance; engage in any monitoring, testing, or             
  evaluation activities; provide information to the public; and request information   
  and make comments, recommendations. Any salary or travel expense that would         
  ordinarily be incurred by such State, political subdivision of such State, or an    
  Indian tribe may not be considered eligible for funding under this program.         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The State of Nevada, affected units of local government, and affected Indian        
  tribes in which DOE is conducting, or interested in conducting, nuclear waste       
  disposal activities. Those units of local government which are contiguous to the    
  situs unit of local government may be designated as affected, at the discretion of  
  the Secretary, and would then be eligible for financial assistance. Designation of  
  a unit of local government or tribe as an 'Affected Unit of Local Government' or    
  'Affected Tribe' is done pursuant to the NWPA.                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  States, affected units of local government and affected American Indian tribes      
  will benefit.                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State         
  and local governments.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  A letter of inquiry describing the proposed work and eligibility of the proposer to

  do the work under a project grant (cooperative agreement) is desirable before       
  preparation of a detailed formal proposal. The standard application forms as        
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must         
  be used for this program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.         
  12372. Neither an environmental assessment nor an environmental impact              
  statement is required.                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicant may omit the letter of inquiry and submit a proposal instead. This        
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                     
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The proposal may be forwarded for internal and external review and then, if         
  approved, to a DOE procurement office for grant development.                        
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Normally 3 to 6 months for Project Grants (cooperative agreements).                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Proposals for renewal are subject to both internal and external evaluation.         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. However,            
  cost-sharing may be appropriate under certain conditions as set forth in DOE        
  financial assistance rules (10 CFR Part 600)governing cost-sharing.                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The schedule of DOE payment is arranged at the time of grant negotiations.          
  Length and time phasing of assistance will vary with DOE program phase and          
  activity.                                                                           
Reports:                                                                              
  The schedule of reports is arranged at the time of grant negotiations.              
Audits:                                                                               
1062                                                                            11-08

  Annual appropriation language provides, in the heading "Nuclear Waste
  Disposal", that notwithstanding the provisions of chapters 65 and 75 of title 31,
  United States Code, the Department shall have no monitoring, auditing or other
  oversight rights or responsibilities over amounts provided to affected units of
  local government in this or any previous year under this heading.
Records:
  Grantee is expected to maintain auditable records to substantiate the total costs
  incurred under the agreement or contract.
Account Identification:
  89-5227-0-2-271.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $29,000,000; FY 08 est $29,000,000; and FY 09 est $29,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $40,000 to $5,000,000 depending on program phase.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The following groups received grants (short titles are provided): Clark County
  (Emergency Response Planning System and Advanced Transportation
  Technologies); Inyo County (Death Valley Regional Groundwater Monitoring
  Program); National Academy of Science (NAS)(Transportation of Radioactive
  Waste); National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners
  (NARUC)(Support review and activities with DOE/OCRWM); National
  Conference of State Legislatures (NCSL)(Collection & Distribution of Nuclear
  Waste & Spent Fuel Policy information to State Legislatures); Nye County
  (Early Warning Drilling Program); Nye County (Independent assessment of the
  Yucca Mountain Trans. issues and concerns. Unique to the Destination County);
  University & Community College System of Nevada (UCCSN) (Scientific and
  Engineering Activities); and Western Interstate Energy Board (WIEB) (Regional
  Coordination and analysis of the OCRWM Transportation Program).
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  General Guidelines for Implementing Financial Assistance Programs under
  Section 116 and 118 of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982, as amended.
Regional or Local Office:
  Tanya N. Montgomery, Office of Civilian Radioactive Waste Management,
  Office of External Affairs, Las Vegas, NV 89134. Telephone: (702) 794-5449.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://ocrwm.doe.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  81.049, Office of Science Financial Assistance Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Review of key site characterization documents; State of Nevada information
  office developing technical capability to review DOE actions as part of
  consultation and cooperation process; socioeconomic environmental,
  hydrogeological, geological, and transportation assessments.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Statutory Eligibility.
81.079 REGIONAL BIOMASS ENERGY PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY,
  DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977, as amended, Public Law 95-
  91; Energy and Water Development Appropriations Act, Public Law 99-500.
OBJECTIVES:
  Help meet the President's goal of significantly increasing America's use of fuels,
  chemicals, materials, and power made from domestic biomass on a sustainable
  basis. This is a Congressionally-directed project. Funding is not available to the
  general public.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance may be used to develop and transfer any of several biomass energy
  technologies to the scientific and industrial communities. For regional
  programs, such technologies will be appropriate for the needs and resources of
  particular regions of the United States.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Profit organizations; private nonprofit institutions/organizations; intrastate,
  interstate, State and local government agencies, and universities may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Profit organizations; private nonprofit institutions/organizations; intrastate,
  interstate, State and local government agencies, universities will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
