  586-5264; EE-2G - (202) 586-2198; EE-2H - (202) 586-2480.                          
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.eere.energy.gov/ and http://www1.eere.energy.gov                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Grants have been awarded to perform: (1) Research on high performance heat         
  pumps; (2) research on thermally efficient commercial buildings; (3) research on   
  vehicle technologies and systems (4) research on high temperature materials; and   
  (5) research on industrial separation processes.                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Selection will be based on an objective merit review, program policy factors, the  
  availability of funds, provisions of appropriation law and reports and as          
  otherwise specified in specific solicitation document(s).                          
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
81.087 RENEWABLE ENERGY RESEARCH AND                                                 
DEVELOPMENT                                                                          
   (Renewable Energy)                                                                
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY,                                  
  DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977, Public Law 95-238, Section          
  207; Public Law 101-218.                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To conduct balanced research and development efforts in the following energy       
  technologies: solar, biomass, hydrogen, fuel cells and infrastructure, wind and    
  hydropower, hydrogen, and geothermal. Grants will be offered to develop and        
  transfer to the nonfederal sector various renewable energy technologies on a       
  competitive basis.                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Assistance may be used to develop and transfer renewable energy technologies       
  to the scientific and industrial communities, State, and local governments.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Profit organizations, private nonprofit institutions/organizations, intrastate,    
  interstate, and local agencies and universities may apply.                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Profit organizations, private nonprofit institutions/organizations, intrastate,    
  interstate, State and local agencies and universities will benefit.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State

  and local governments.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The application forms must be downloaded from the specific funding                 
                                                                                     
  opportunity announcement posted on the grants.gov website at

                                                                                     
  http://www.grants.gov/.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

  All applications which pass an initial review will receive an objective merit      
  review. The objective merit review will be based on evaluation criteria set forth  
                                                                                     
  in the competitive solicitation(s) or criteria set forth in 10 CFR Part 600 for

                                                                                     
  Unsolicited Proposals. Evaluations will be conducted by Renewable Energy

                                                                                     
  Technology program personnel at DOE Headquarters in Washington, DC. This

                                                                                     
  responsibility may also be delegated to DOE Field Offices. Final decisions will

                                                                                     
  be made by the EERE Assistant Secretary, Deputy Assistant Secretaries, and the

                                                                                     
  Director of the Federal Energy Management Program.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

  Deadlines are identified in the solicitation.                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 60 to 180 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Renewals are subject to review by the headquarters program office and subject      
  to the availability of funds.                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula, but cost-sharing is encouraged.             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Award project periods range from 2 months to 1 year.                               
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly progress and expenditure reports, and a final report at the conclusion   
  of the grant time period.                                                          
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                    
                                                                                     


1064                                                                           11-08

  Organizations," nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  89-0224-0-1-271.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $226,168,574; FY 08 est $120,073,230 and FY 09 est $235,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Varies.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Under the State Cooperative Reservoir Analysis Program, a broad range of
  research, technical, and resource studies were carried out.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The following list represents an overview of regulations, guidelines, and
  literature: EERE Federal Register notices; EERE Solicitations, which may be
  accessed through the EERE homepage at: http://www.eere.energy.gov; DOE
  Financial Assistance Regulations(10 CFR 600); and the DOE Guide to Financial
  Assistance, both of which may be accessed through the DOE Office of
  Management home page at
  www.management.energy.gov/policy_guidance/financial_assistance.htm.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Solar Energy Technologies (EE-2A); Office of Wind and Hydropower
  (EE-2B); Geothermal Technologies (EE-2C) and Biomass (EE-2E), Office of
  Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000
  Independence Ave., SW, Washington, DC, 20585. Telephone: EE-2A - (202)
  586-7055; EE-2B - (202) 586-7950; EE-2C - (202) 586-6054; EE-2E - (202)
  586-8798.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.eere.doe.gov and http://www1.eere.energy.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  81.079, Regional Biomass Energy Programs.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  American Institute of Architects Foundation-Determination of solar building
  technology research and development needs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Selection will be based on an objective merit review, program policy factors, the
  availability of funds, provisions of appropriation laws, reports, and as otherwise
  specified in specific solicitation document(s).
81.089 FOSSIL ENERGY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF FOSSIL ENERGY, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 95-91 DOE Organization Act of 1977, as amended by Public Law
  109-58 Energy Policy Act 2005. Federal Nonnuclear Energy Research and
  Development Act of 1974, Public Law 93-557; Energy Policy and Conservation
  Act, Public Law 94163.
OBJECTIVES:
  The mission of the Fossil Energy (FE) Research and Development program is to
  promote the development and use of environmentally and economically superior
  technologies for supply, conversion, delivery, utilization and reliability
  constraints of producing and using fossil fuels. These activities will involve
  cooperation with industry, DOE Laboratories, universities and States. Success in
  this mission will benefit the Nation through lower energy costs, reduced
  environmental impact, increased technology exports, and reduced dependence
  on insecure energy sources.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Emphasis is on applied research and technology development.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, local governments, universities, governmental entities, consortia,
  nonprofit institutions, commercial corporations, joint Federal/Industry
  corporations, U.S. Territories, and individuals are eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federal, State, local governments, universities, consortia, nonprofit institutions,
  commercial corporations, joint Federal/Industry corporations, and individuals
  will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Prior successful research and development experience in the fossil energy field
  and related areas.
Preapplication Coordination:
  For competitive announcements, the applicant should follow the procedures
  listed in the specific funding opportunity announcement posted on the
