  Grants.gov web-site. In the case of Unsolicited Proposals, DOE encourages        
  potential submitters to consult with program personnel before an extensive effort
  is expended in preparing a detailed proposal. For construction under             
  demonstration projects, an environmental impact statement/assessment is

  required in accordance with the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA).        
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                             
  The application forms must be downloaded from the specific funding               
  opportunity announcement posted on the Grants.gov web-site:                      
  http://www.grants.gov. Unsolicited Proposals (USP) should be submitted in        
  accordance with the instructions posted at the following web site:               
  http://www.netl.doe.gov/business/usp/USPGuide.pdf. This program is subject to    
  the provisions of 10 CFR 600 and FAR 15.6.                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  DOE solicitations sets forth award procedures. Unsolicited proposals will be     
  evaluated by DOE personnel assigned to the specific area with peer reviews as    
  required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.               
Deadlines:                                                                         
  None for USP. For others the deadline is stated in the financial assistance      
  opportunity announcement (FOA) posted at http://www.grants.gov.                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Approximately 90 to 180 days.                                                    
Appeals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                            
Renewals:                                                                          
  Awards may be amended or extended as required.                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  Varies with each grant/cooperative agreement.

                                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                   
  The time period for a grant or cooperative agreement is dependent upon the

                                                                                   
  individual project submitted.

                                                                                   
Reports:

                                                                                   
  Quarterly progress and financial reports are required. The final

                                                                                   
  scientific/technical report is due within 90 calendar days after the grant or

                                                                                   
  cooperative agreement project period ends.

                                                                                   
Audits:

  Possible project audit, overhead rate audit, final closeout audit. In accordance 
  with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local          
                                                                                   
  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations." Non-federal entities that expend

                                                                                   
  $500,000 or more of federal funds within their fiscal year shall have an audit

                                                                                   
  made for that year in accordance with this Circular. For commercial (for-profit)

                                                                                   
  organizations, audits should be performed in accordance with 10 CFR

                                                                                   
  600.126(c) and/or 10 CFR 600.316.

                                                                                   
Records:

                                                                                   
  Required by grant/assistance award document.

                                                                                   
Account Identification:

                                                                                   
  89-0224-0-1-271.

                                                                                   
Obligations:

  (Grants and Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $470,065,442; FY 08 est                
  $400,976,553; and FY 09 est $568,130,000.                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  $10,000 to $10,000,000/Average: $2,000,000.                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  In fiscal year 2007, 869 financial assistance actions were processed including   
  new awards and amendments.                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  DOE Assistance Regulations, 10 CFR 600; Federal Acquisition Regulation 15.6,     
  Unsolicited Proposals; Guide to Unsolicited Proposals:                           
  http://www.netl.doe.gov/business/usp/unsol.html.                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  National Energy Technology Laboratory, Acquisition & Assistance Division;        
  P.O. Box 10940, Mail Stop 921-107, 626 Cochrans Mill Road, Pittsburgh, PA;       
  15236-0940. For Unsolicited Proposals, E-mail John Augustine at                  
  john.augustine@netl.doe.gov.                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Department of Energy, Fossil Energy Program, Maria Jones, 1000 Independence      
  Avenue, S.W., Mail Stop FE-3, Washington, D.C. Contact: Telephone: (202)         
  586-1890 or Maria.Jones@hq.doe.gov.                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.netl.doe.gov and http://www.fossil.energy.gov.                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  81.057, University Coal Research.                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Membrane Process to Sequester CO2 From Power Plant Flue Gas;                     
  Demonstration of Mer-Cure Technology for Enhanced Mercury Control;               
  Investigation of Hydrogen Fueled Internal Combustion Engine; Promote Increase    
  Use of U.S. Clean Coal and Energy Technologies Collaboration and Transfer;       
  Critical Energy Issues in the Asia-Pacific, Middle East and Other Regions; and   
  Clean Energy Collaboration to Further Global Energy Security and Emissions       
  Reduction.                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  


                                                                              11-08
  (1) Technical merit; (2) priority of technical work relating to proposal; (3)
  relevance to current program objectives; (4) cost-benefit judgment; and (5)
  amount of cost-sharing by potential recipient.
81.104 OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL WASTE
PROCESSING
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT (EM), DEPARTMENT OF
  ENERGY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Atomic Energy Act of 1954, Section 31, as amended, Public Law 83-703;
  Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, Public Law 93-438; Department of Energy
  Organization Act of 1977, as amended; Public Law 96-573; Uranium Mill
  Tailings Radiation Control Act of 1978; Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy
  Act, Public Law 99-240; Low-Level Radioactive Waste Policy Amendments
  Act, Public Law 96-368; Hazardous Materials Transportation Uniform Safety
  Act of 1990, Public Law 101-615.
OBJECTIVES:
  In an effort to more directly support opportunities identified in the Office of
  Environmental Management (EM) cleanup acceleration initiatives, the Office of
  Processing will be "projectizing" its Technology Development and Deployment
  Program. This represents a transition from the current approach, which is to
  develop technologies that are alternatives to existing site baseline technologies,
  to provide short-term technical assistance, and to provide support for near-term
  closure needs. The projectized approach will address the technology needs being
  identified by the EM sites, enabling them to accelerate their cleanup schedules,
  treat orphaned wastes, and provide technical foundations for the sites' End States
  visions. The Technology Development and Deployment Project is focused on a
  limited number of critical, high-risk and high-payback activities where step
  improvements can be gained. By realigning the project in this manner, the
  Department is ensuring that the activities support EMs primary goal of
  accelerating risk reduction and environmental cleanup. The highest priority
  needs requiring technical solutions fall into five major areas: High-Level Waste,
  Groundwater and Soils, Decontamination and Decommissioning (D&D), Spent
  Nuclear Fuel, and Transuranic Waste.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Financial assistance is provided in support of the program objectives.
  Restrictions on the use of funds depend on the provisions of the specific project
  agreement. Applicants must meet the guidelines established by DOE or
  contained in the specific Congressional authorization for a particular program
  being supported.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public, quasi-public, private industry, individuals, groups, educational
  institutions, organizations, and nonprofit organizations may apply including
  State or local level governments, federally recognized Indian tribal governments,
  and institutions in U.S. Territories and possessions may apply. Determinations
  are made by DOE Headquarters, the field, or both.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, affected Indian tribes, regional organizations, (including U.S. Territories)
  local governments, and the public will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. Cost will also be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-21 for institutions of higher education or as otherwise defined in
  the financial assistance instrument.
Preapplication Coordination:
  These determinations will be made by DOE Headquarters, or assisted by the
  field as appropriate. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  After informal communication with DOE Headquarters Office, a formal
  proposal by the organization interested in doing the work must be submitted
  through an appropriate official of the corporate entity, organization, or
  institution. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-
  110. Financial assistance requests will be reviewed pursuant to the Office of
  Environmental Management Merit Review System (May 5, 1991) and the DOE
  Financial Assistance Manual, as amended. Note that in fiscal years 2008 and
  beyond the vast majority of awards will be made in response to competitive
  procurement and financial assistance solicitations. There will be little to no
  funding available for unsolicited proposals.
Award Procedure:
  Award decisions are made by DOE Headquarters throughout the fiscal year.
Deadlines:
  Whatever is stated in the program announcements; unsolicited proposals may be
  submitted at any time. Proposals received after April 1, of any year, may be held
  up to 1 year and may be supported from the next fiscal year funding, if available.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The approximate approval/disapproval time is from 2 months to 1 year.
                                                                                   1065
