Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Proposals for renewal are subject to review and acceptance by DOE                   
  Headquarters, the field, or both.                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  There are no specific cost-sharing requirements for financial assistance. It may    
  be appropriate under certain conditions to invoke the appropriate provisions for    
  cost-sharing as set forth in DOE procurement regulations governing cost-sharing

  or other guidelines. Certain financial assistance requests leading to transfers of

  technology and/or requiring protection of intellectual property rights may wish

                                                                                      
  to provide cost-sharing as part of its organization's commitments and               
  capabilities.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Length and time phasing of assistance will vary with the program phase and          
  activity. The maximum term of an award is 5 years.                                  
Reports:                                                                              
  The schedule for reports are arranged at the time of negotiations. Applicants       
  will typically submit a quarterly and an annual report as specified in the grant    
  award, although in certain instances more frequent reporting may be required.       
Audits:                                                                               
  Costs incurred are subject to audit throughout the contract or grant period and     
  before final close-out. The extent and frequency of audits depend on the size of    
  the contract/grant and the specific contract/grant provisions. In accordance with   
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits         
  of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal             
  entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards     
  will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.             
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are     
  exempt from Federal audit requirements that year, except as noted in Circular       
  No. A-133.                                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  A grantee is expected to maintain auditable records to substantiate the total costs 
  incurred under the grant or cooperative agreement.                                  
Account Identification:                                                               
  89-0240-0-1-053; 89-0242-0-1-053.                                                   
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $13,000,000; FY 08 est $18,000,000; and FY 09 est $13,000,000.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  From $200,000 to $7,000,000 per year. Funding may be provided at a higher           
  value for financial cost assistance leading to tangible products.                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Technology Development and Deployment activities for Environmental                  
  Management strive to ensure the health and safety of the public and environment     
  by decreasing worker exposure, reducing overall risk, reducing cleanup costs,       
  and shortening cleanup schedules, through the development and use of new            
  technologies, and novel applications of existing technologies. Project              
  accomplishments include the development and deployment of technologies              
  relating to high-level waste characterization, processing, and disposition;         
  decontamination and decommissioning (D&D); instrumentation and monitors;            
  robotics; groundwater and soil remediation; and university curriculum               
  development. These accomplishments represent significant advances in                
  obtaining these goals.                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The following list represents an overview of regulations, guidelines, and           
  literature associated with OPTED requirements, objectives and goals: RCRA,          
  CERCLA, NEPA, CAA, CQA, TSCA; Federal Register notices; "Guide for the              
  Submission of Unsolicited Proposals" available at                                   
  http://www.netl.doe.gov/business/usp/index.html ;"Doing Business with the           
  Department of Energy;" "Environmental Restoration and Waste Management              
  Merit Review System."                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Waste Processing, Office of Environmental Management, DOE,                
  Washington, DC 20585.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.em.doe.gov                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Cooperative Agreements: (1) develop a remote instrumentation system capable         
  of providing quantitative estimates of the amount, chemical composition, and        
  location of residual waste; (2) conduct basic and applied research in robotics and  
  subsidence concerns; (3) develop new grout formulations that will minimize          
  waste canisters, shipments, and costs; (4) develop conceptual model for mercury     
  bio-availability in soil and water; and (5) develop prototype design for tank       
  inspection tool. Grants: (1) develop alternatives for retrieval, processing, and    
  disposition of high-level salt waste; and (2) develop alternative D&D               
  technologies for solving multiple material handling and size reduction tasks; (3)   
                                                                                      
1066                                                                            11-08

  develop mercury remediation strategies; (4) develop methods to enhance
  phytoremediation of metals and radionuclides in soil; and (5) develop innovative
  separations technologies for waste treatment.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Work must be beneficial to the overall accomplishment of the program
  objectives and consistent with the criteria of the EM Merit Review System (i.e.,
  technically meritorious, qualified principal investigators, adequate facilities for
  conduct of the work, past experience and performance history).
81.105 NATIONAL INDUSTRIAL COMPETITIVENESS
THROUGH ENERGY, ENVIRONMENT, AND ECONOMICS
   (NICE3)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY,
  DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977, as amended, Public Law 95-
  91; Energy Policy Act of 1992, as amended, Public Law 102-486.
OBJECTIVES:
  This program is in close-out. Financial assistance will not be provided in the
  future.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  None.
Applicant Eligibility:
  None.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Both state and local governments benefited from these grants. Commercial firms
  with expertise in waste reduction and pollution prevention, large and small
  businesses, and others in the business of preventing pollution and energy
  conserving technologies also benefited.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This Program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  NICE3 is in close-out mode. There is no appropriation for grant project funding.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  This program is in close-out. Financial assistance will not be provided in the
  future.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  Unsuccessful applicants from the competitive solicitation were entitled to a
  written debriefing by DOE program officials with a clear explanation of why the
  proposal was not accepted for funding.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Federal funds were awarded to States and industry applicants that can match
  DOE Federal funds at 50 percent. DOE field offices made the grant awards and
  served as grant managers. DOE support offices worked with State energy and
  environmental offices to actively seek out State developmental energy, and
  industry organizations that might be interested in this Program.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects covered a period of up to 3 years with release of funding subject to work
  progress. Access to process implementation and efficiency data is to be available
  for 10 years after project completion to measure performance against expectation
  and to support commercialization of the technology.
Reports:
  Quarterly project and financial status reports are required. A final report is
  required at the end of the contract period. A 10-year tracking and follow-up
  reporting mechanism may be required.
Audits:
  DOE may perform closing audits.
Records:
  Access to process implementation and efficiency data must be available for 10
  years after project completion to measure performance against expectation and
  to support commercialization of the technology.
Account Identification:
  89-0215-0-1-250.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,633,941; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
