  107, Public Law 93-438, 88 Stat. 1240, 42 U.S.C. 5817; Federal Nonnuclear           
  Energy Research and Development Act of 1977, as amended, Public Law 95-91,          
  42 U.S.C. 7101.                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide financial support for research, education, conferences,                  
  communication, and other activities relating to the health of Department of         
  Energy workers, as well as other populations potentially exposed to health          
  hazards associated with energy production, transmission, and use.                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Financial support, in whole or in part, may be provided for such purposes as the    
  salaries, materials and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs, training    
  costs, and services required for conducting research, training, related activities, 
  and advanced technology projects or assessments. Restrictions on use of funds       
  depend on award provisions. Support is provided for work in such areas as the       
  health experience of DOE and DOE contractor workers; health experience of           
  populations living near DOE facilities; health experience of workers exposed to     
  toxic substances; use of biomarkers to recognize exposure to toxic substances;      
  conduct of epidemiologic and other health studies relating to energy production,    
  transmission, and use (including electromagnetic fields) in the United States and   
  abroad; compilation, documentation, management, use, and analysis of data for       
  the DOE Comprehensive Epidemiologic Data Resource; and other systems or             
  activities enhancing these areas, as well as other program areas as may be          
  described by notice published in the Federal Register.                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Colleges and universities, businesses, and nonprofit institutions may apply.        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Colleges and universities, businesses, and nonprofit institutions will benefit.     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for               
  institutions of higher education. Costs will be determined in accordance with       
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Informal communication is encouraged before preparing a formal application.         
  This program is generally not subject to the intergovernmental review               
  requirements of E.O. 12372 as implemented by 10 CFR 1005. However, certain          
  applications for financial assistance awards may require this review. Such          
  applications, including those from governmental or nongovernmental entities         
  that involve research, development, or demonstration activities are subject to the  
  provisions of the Executive Order and 10 CFR Part 1005 when such activities:        
  (1) Have a unique geographic focus and are directly relevant to the governmental    
  responsibilities of a State or local government within the geographic area; (2)

  necessitate preparation of an Environmental Impact Statement under NEPA; or         
  (3) are to be initiated at a particular site or location and require unusual

  measures to limit the possibility of adverse exposure or hazard to the general      
  public. Entities planning to submit such applications should coordinate with the

  information contact listed below for further information.                           
                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

  A formal application by the principal investigator interested in doing the work is  
  required. If submitted on behalf of an institution, the application should be sent  
  through the appropriate administrative official. In the case of any competitive     
  solicitations issued under this program, the application forms must be              
  downloaded from the specific funding opportunity announcement posted on the         
  Grants.gov web-site at http://www.grants.gov/.                                      
                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

  Decisions to approve are made by the Headquarters Program Director. DOE             
  procurement offices are then instructed to negotiate and prepare an appropriate     
  award document.                                                                     
                                                                                      
Deadlines:

  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Normally 6 months.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Proposals for renewal are subject to review and acceptance by the Headquarters      
  Office.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Matching is not required.                                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The schedule of DOE payments is arranged at the time of award.                      
Reports:                                                                              
  The schedule of reports is arranged at the time of the negotiation.                 
Audits:                                                                               
  Costs incurred are subject to audit throughout the award period and before final    
  payment, with the extent and frequency of audit depending on the size of the        
  grant and on the particular award provisions. In accordance with the provisions     
  of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local        
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, nonfederal entities that expend           


1068                                                                            11-08

  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipient is expected to maintain records required to audit or otherwise
  substantiate costs incurred under the grant.
Account Identification:
  89-0224-0-1-271.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $21,000,000; FY 08 $17,500,000; and FY 09
  est $17,500,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $50,000 to $5,000,000; $1,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Results and accomplishments of basic research and training performed under
  these programs are reported in open scientific literature. The research and
  training supported by these awards will help train future scientific talent in
  epidemiology and other health-related areas.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  10 CFR 602. Guidelines and current program announcements are included in
  application kits. See also doing business website located at www.pr.doe.gov/.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Ron Barnes, Office of Business Operations, DOE, Mail Stop HS-1.21/GTN,
  Germantown, MD 20874-1290. Telephone: (301) 903-1244.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hss.energy.gov/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Several cooperative agreements were awarded for work on DOE's Former
  Worker Medical Screening Program, as required by the 1993 Defense
  Authorization Act. This program consumes the majority of any funding available
  for grants as described by CFDA 81.108.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The scientific and technical merit of the proposed research, appropriateness of
  the proposed method or approach, competency of research personnel and
  adequacy of proposed resources, reasonableness and appropriateness of the
  proposed budget, and other appropriate factors set forth in a Notice of
  Availability or in a specific solicitation.
81.112 STEWARDSHIP SCIENCE GRANT PROGRAM
   (Defense Science)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  ENERGY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, Section 31, Public Law 83-703, 68
  Stat. 919, 42 U.S.C. 2051; Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, Title 1, Section
  107, Public Law 93-438, 88 Stat. 1240, 42 U.S.C. 5817; Federal Nonnuclear
  Energy Research and Development Act of 1974, Public Law 93-577;
  Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977, as amended, Public Law 95-
  91, 42 U.S.C. 7101.
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To grow the U.S. scientific community through university involvement in
  areas of fundamental science and technology relevant to stockpile stewardship;
  (2) to promote and sustain scientific interactions between the academic
  community and scientists at the NNSA laboratories; (3) to train scientists in
  specific areas of long-term research relevant to stockpile stewardship; (4) to
  increase the availability of unique experimental facilities sited at NNSA's
  laboratories to the academic community, particularly for collaborations in areas
  of relevance to stockpile stewardship; and (5) to develop and maintain a long-
  term recruiting pipeline to NNSA's laboratories by increasing the visibility of
  NNSA's Defense Program's scientific activities to the U.S. faculty and student
  communities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Financial support in whole or in part may be provided for such purposes as the
  salaries, materials and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs, training
  costs, and services required for conducting research, training, related activities,
  and advanced technology projects or assessments. Funding is provided for basic
  and applied research in the field of physical science in support of the DOE
  stockpile stewardship program. Restrictions on use of funds depend on grant
  provisions. Funding is provided for the purpose of exploring an idea that does
  not unnecessarily duplicate work already in progress or contemplated by DOE, is
