  not already known to DOE, or has previously unrecognized merit.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  New applicants can be U.S. public and private institutions of higher education.       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  U.S. public and private institutions of higher education will benefit.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for                 
  institutions of higher education. Costs will be determined in accordance with         
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  No preapplication is required. This program is excluded from coverage under           
  E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:

  Proposals should be submitted as specified in the funding opportunity                 
  announcement posted at http://www.grants.gov/.                                        
Award Procedure:

                                                                                        
  Proposals will be screened for stewardship relevance and then reviewed for

                                                                                        
  scientific and technical merit by qualified individuals. Recommendations for          
  award are made by the Office of Research and Development for National                 
  Security Science and Technology, Defense Science Division, Defense Programs,          
  NNSA, and selected proposals will be forwarded to the NNSA Albuquerque                
  Service Center for grant development and award.                                       
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Deadlines are stated in the solicitations.                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Approximately 90 to 180 days.

                                                                                        
Appeals:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
Renewals:

  Proposals for renewal are subject to review and acceptance by the Office of           
  Research and Development for National Security Science and Technology,                
  Defense Science Division.                                                             
                                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no statutory formula.                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  The schedule of NNSA payments is arranged at the time of award.                       
Reports:                                                                                
  As specified in the "DOE Federal Assistance Reporting Checklist (DOE F                
  4600.2)," to be issued to the recipient upon receipt of an award the following        
  reports are required: progress report, special reports, financial status reports      
  (FSR SF 269), and final report. These requirements are also specified in the          
  solicitation.                                                                         
Audits:                                                                                 
  Costs incurred are subject to audit throughout the grant period and/or before         
  final payment, with the extent and frequency of audit depending on the size of        
  the grant and on the particular grant provisions.                                     
Records:                                                                                
  Recipient is expected to maintain auditable records to substantiate the total costs   
  incurred under the grant.                                                             
Account Identification:                                                                 
  89-0240-0-1-053.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants): FY 07 $23,440,299; FY 08 $25,272,875; and FY 09 est $29,369,125.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $100,000 to $3,000,000; $380,000.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  The research supported helps to increase U.S. efforts in physical science relevant    
  to stockpile stewardship and will assist in training future scientific talent in these
  areas.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Dr. Chris Deeney, Director, Defense Science Division, NA-121.1/Forrestal,             
  1000 Independence Avenue, Washington, DC 20585. Telephone: (202) 586-                 
  7416. Fax: (202) 586-8005.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.nnsa.energy.gov/dsup.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  "Center for the Study of Pulsed-Power Driven High Energy Density Plasmas";            
  "Electron Interactions in Actinides and Related Systems under Extreme                 
  Conditions"; "Dense Plasma Studies with Ultra-Bright Soft X-Ray Probes"; and          
  "Measurement of Neutron-Induced Reaction Cross-Sections."                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  (1) Alignment with the areas of technical scope; (2) Scientific/technical merit of    
  the project, including innovativeness and originality; (3) Expected impact on the     
  area of technical scope addressed; (4) Consistency with the objective of this         
  academic alliances program to focus on advanced experimental investigations;          


                                                                                   11-08
  (5) Qualifications of the Applicant's personnel and adequacy of proposed
  resources; (6) Feasibility of plans for carrying out the proposed research,
  considering such factors as: appropriateness of the technical method and
  approach, facility compatibility, other commitments, competition and timing; (7)
  For projects currently receiving funding under this program, the quality and
  scientific impact of recent results and accomplishments; (8) Level of interaction
  with NNSA/DP laboratory personnel and the potential to train students in
  scientific areas defined by the technical scope in order to build a long-term
  recruiting pool for the NNSA/DP laboratory complex. Generally, a higher degree
  of interaction both quantitatively and qualitatively is considered desirable; (9)
  Leverage provided by cost sharing with other funding sources.
81.113 DEFENSE NUCLEAR NONPROLIFERATION
RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NUCLEAR SECURITY ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, Section 3157, Public Law 101-189,
  103 Stat. 1684, 42 U.S.C. 2051; Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, Title I,
  Section 107, Public Law 93-438; 88 Stat. 1240, 42 U.S.C. 5817; Federal
  Nonnuclear Energy Research and Development Act of 1974, Public Law 93-
  577; Department of Energy (DOE) Organization Act of 1977, as amended,
  Public Law 95-91, 42 U.S.C. 7101; Public Law 106-65; National Defense
  Authorization Act of 2000.
OBJECTIVES:
  To conduct basic and applied research and development that enhances U.S.
  national security and reduces the global danger from the proliferation of
  weapons of mass destruction and special nuclear materials through needs-driven
  research and development. The emphasis is on developing the requisite
  technologies to detect and deter nuclear proliferation and to meet U.S. nuclear
  detonation detection goals. Research focuses on advanced detection systems and
  concepts to support current and future USG policies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Financial support, in whole or in part, may be provided for salaries, materials,
  supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs, services required for conducting
  nonproliferation research and development to reduce the global danger from the
  proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. Construction or related costs are
  not allowed under these project grants. All work must comply with export
  control regulations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Universities (public and private), institutions of higher education with
  postdoctoral programs, and nonprofit non-government organizations (public and
  private) whose activities benefit the general public through results which are
  available to the National Nuclear Security Administration (NNSA), other U.S.
  government agencies, and universities and institutions of higher learning may
  apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The NNSA, other U.S. government agencies, universities and institutions of
  higher learning will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  institutions of higher learning. Non-government organizations will have
  nonprofit status certified by the IRS.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The NNSA Service Center in Albuquerque, New Mexico issues Broad Agency
  Announcements (BAAs) under which formal applications may be submitted by a
  scientist or principal investigator who will conduct or lead the research team.
  The BAAs will be posted to DOE's IIPS system which can be accessed at:
  http://e-center.doe.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Evaluations will be conducted by technical staff assigned to the Office of
  Nonproliferation Research and Development or at the DOE national laboratories.
  Final decisions for approval are made by the cognizant program director.
  DOE/NNSA Procurement is then instructed to negotiate and prepare the grant
  award documents. Program management responsibilities may be delegated as a
  whole or in part to the NNSA Service Center or NNSA Site Offices.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range is from 60 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Grants will be modified and extended as required. Renewals are subject to an
  annual review by the Headquarters and/or NNSA Service Center.
                                                                                1069
