  reactor sharing, matching programs, fellowships and scholarships to nuclear       
  engineering students, nuclear engineering education research, radiochemistry,     
  and recruitment activities.                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Technical merit of the proposal, appropriateness of the proposal method or        
  approach, relevance to nuclear energy research and development, potential         
  contribution to knowledge, and the background and experience of applicants are    
  considered.                                                                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
81.117 ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY

                                                                                    
INFORMATION DISSEMINATION, OUTREACH,                                                
TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ANALYSIS/ASSISTANCE                                          
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                    
  OFFICE OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY,

                                                                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY

                                                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:

  Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 712,         
  Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. 5813(6)(7)(8); Energy Policy Act     
  1992 42 U.S.C. 13231.                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  The Department of Energy (DOE) seeks to provide financial assistance for          
  information dissemination, outreach, training and related technical               
  analysis/assistance which will: (1) stimulate increased energy efficiency in      
  transportation, buildings, industry and the Federal sector and encourage          
                                                                                    
  increased use of renewable and alternative energy; and (2) accelerate the

                                                                                    
  adoption of new technologies to increase energy efficiency and the use of

                                                                                    
  renewable and alternative energy through the competitive solicitation of

                                                                                    
  applications.                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Financial assistance is provided in support of the program objectives as          
  described in a single competitive solicitation or multiple competitive            
  solicitations. The solicitation(s) will provide funding in various program areas  
  within the Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy: Solar, Wind and      
  Hydropower, Geothermal, Biomass, Industrial Technologies, FreedomCAR,             
  Building Technologies, Weatherization and Intergovernmental, Federal Energy       
  Management Program, and the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Energy          
  Efficiency and Renewable Energy. Restrictions on use of funds depend on the       
  provisions of the specific project agreement.                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Profit organizations, individuals, private nonprofit institutions/organizations,  
  public nonprofit institutions/organizations, State and local governments, Native  
  American organizations, Alaskan Native corporations and universities may          
  apply. DOE Laboratories are not eligible.                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Profit organizations, individuals, private nonprofit institutions/organizations,  
  public nonprofit institutions/organizations, State and local governments, Native  
  American organizations, Alaskan Native corporations and universities benefit.     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State       
  and local governments. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB            
  Circular No. A-21 for institutions of higher education.                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The application forms must be downloaded from the specific funding                
  opportunity announcement posted on the grants.gov website at                      
  http://www.grants.gov/. A separate application must be submitted for each DOE     
  Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy (EERE) Program Area of Interest.           
Award Procedure:

  All applications which pass an initial review will receive an objective merit

  review. Objective Merit Review Committees will evaluate applications based on     
  the evaluation criteria set forth in the competitive solicitation. After the Merit
  Review Committee has completed its evaluations, an EERE Office Director or        
  other Program Official will evaluate the applications against program policy      
  factors set forth in the competitive solicitation. Final decisions will be made by
  the EERE Assistant Secretary, Deputy Assistant Secretaries, and the Director of   
  the Federal Energy Management Program.                                            
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Deadlines are identified in the solicitation.                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  From 4 to 6 months.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Renewals are subject to review by the headquarters program office and subject     
  to the availability of funds.                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:



                                                                               11-08
  Cost sharing is a mandatory factor for award in some EERE Program Areas of
  Interest. For those Program Areas of Interest where cost sharing is not a
  mandatory factor, cost-sharing is encouraged and will be considered in the
  selection process.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Length and time phasing of assistance will vary with the program phase and
  activity. The maximum term of awards varies among the Program Areas of
  Interest and ranges from 6 months to 5 years.
Reports:
  The schedule for reports are arranged at the time of negotiations. Applicants will
  typically submit a semi-annual report, as specified in the award.
Audits:
  Costs incurred are subject to audit throughout the grant period and before final
  close-out. The extent and frequency of audits depends on the size of the award
  and the specific award provisions. In accordance with the provisions of OMB
  Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of States, Local
  Governments and Non-Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities that expend
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  A grantee is expected to maintain auditable records to substantiate the total costs
  incurred under the grant.
Account Identification:
  89-0224-0-1-271; 89-0215-0-1-272.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $30,170,137; FY 08 est $1,598,000; and FY 09 est $3,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Varies.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Over 300 awards have been executed to date.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The following list represents an overview of regulations, guidelines, and
  literature: EERE Federal Register notices; EERE Solicitations, which may be
  accessed through the EERE homepage at: http://www.eere.energy.gov; DOE
  Financial Assistance Regulations (10 CFR 600); and the DOE Guide to
  Financial Assistance, both of which may be accessed through the DOE Office of
  Management home page at http://management.energy.gov/policy_guidance.htm.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Business Administration, EE-3A, Office of Energy Efficiency and
  Renewable Energy, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000 Independence Avenue,
  SW, Washington, DC. Contact: Polly Perando via e-mail at
  polly.perando@ee.doe.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.eere.energy.gov; http://www1.eere.energy.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects that are scheduled to be funded: Information dissemination, public
  outreach, and related technical analysis activities involving specific renewable
  technologies; training to promote the use of alternative fuel vehicles; information
  dissemination, technical analysis, and outreach activities designed to facilitate
  the adoption of energy efficiency and renewable energy in residential and
  commercial buildings and communities; and technical assistance to spur
  increased energy efficiency and renewable energy in developing countries.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Selection will be based on an objective merit review recommendation, program
  policy factors, the amount of funds available, provisions of appropriation law
  and reports and as otherwise specified in the solicitation document.
81.119 STATE ENERGY PROGRAM SPECIAL PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ENERGY EFFICIENCY AND RENEWABLE ENERGY,
  DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Energy Policy and Conservation Act, Title III, Sections 361-366, Part C, Public
  Law 94-163, 42 U.S.C. 6321-6326; Energy Organization Act of 1977, as
  amended, Public Law 95-91, 42 U.S.C. 7101; National Energy Conservation
  Policy Act of 1978, Public Law 95-619, Public Law 101-440, Balanced Budget
  Down Payment Act II of 1996, Public Law 104-134.
OBJECTIVES:
  To allow States to submit proposals to implement specific Department of Energy
  (DOE) Office of Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy deployment activities
  and initiatives as Special Projects under the State Energy Program. States will
  compete for funding to implement activities relating to a number of
  programmatic areas such as building codes and standards, alternative fuels,
                                                                                  1071
