  industrial efficiency, building efficiency, and solar and renewable technologies.    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Financial support, in whole or in part, may be provided for salaries, materials,     
  and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs, and services required for        
  implementing the activities described in the application.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  All States plus the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Puerto Rico,      
  Guam, Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands may                
  apply.                                                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  States and their project partners will benefit.                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 10 CFR 600 for State and local           
  Governments.                                                                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  No preapplication form is required by the DOE. This program is not eligible for

  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."

  Consultation and assistance will be available from the DOE in the preparation of

                                                                                       
  the application. Applicants for sub-awards from the states should consult the        
  office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for 
  more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for

  assistance.                                                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  The application forms must be downloaded from the specific funding                   
  opportunity announcement posted on the Grants.gov web-site: at                       
  http://www.grants.gov. Applicants for sub-awards from the states should              
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact within the  
  State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in       
  applying for assistance.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Evaluations will be conducted by staff of the Office of Energy Efficiency and        
  Renewable Energy end-use sectors participating in the annual solicitation. Final     
  decisions to approve are made by Assistant Secretary Office of Energy                
  Efficiency and Renewable Energy. DOE Field Offices are then instructed to            
  negotiate and prepare the grant award documents.                                     
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Deadlines are identified in the solicitation.                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  None.                                                                                
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Renewals are subject to review by the headquarters program office and subject        
  to the availability of funds.                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Cost-sharing, if required, is specified by each program sector participating in the  
  solicitation and is included as part of the solicitation.                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Vary.                                                                                
Reports:                                                                               
  Quantity reports are required while work is in progress. An end of project report

                                                                                       
  is also required.

                                                                                       
Audits:

                                                                                       
  Costs will be verified and subject to audit according to standard government

                                                                                       
  practice and in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-133. In

                                                                                       
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27,

                                                                                       
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,"

                                                                                       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                       
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  In accordance with 10 CFR 600.

                                                                                       
Account Identification:

                                                                                       
  89-0215-0-1-270.

                                                                                       
Obligations:

                                                                                       
  FY 07 $7,951,906; FY 08 est $5,000,000; and FY 09 est $7,000,000.

                                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  Varies.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Multiple grants will be awarded annually. Successful projects will assist in the     
  increased deployment of energy efficiency and renewable energy technologies          
  and practices.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Program requirements issued in Federal Register prior to actual invitation and       
  solicitation to the States.                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for DOE Regional Offices.                             


1072                                                                             11-08

Headquarters Office:
  Office of Weatherization and Intergovernmental Program, EE-2K, Office of
  Energy Efficiency and Renewable Energy, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000
  Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20585. Telephone: (877) 337-
  3463.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.eere.energy.gov/state_energy_program/ and
  http://www1.eere.energy.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  81.041, State Energy Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grants have been awarded to develop energy efficient building codes, deploy
  solar and renewable technologies, promote the use of alternative fuels, promote
  industrial, and building efficiency.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The selection process will be determined by the criteria announced in the annual
  solicitation.
81.121 NUCLEAR ENERGY RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT
AND DEMONSTRATION
   (NE RD&D)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF NUCLEAR ENERGY, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, Section 32, Public Law 83-703, 68
  Stat. 919, 42 U.S.C. 2051 Energy Reorganization Act of 1974, Title I, Section
  107, Public Law 93-438, 88 Stat. 1240, 42 U.S.C. 5817, Department of Energy
  Organization Act of 1977, as amended, Public Law 95-91, 42 U.S.C. 7101.
  Section 31 of the Atomic Energy Act, 42 USC 2051.
OBJECTIVES:
  Provide financial assistance to address key issues affecting the worldwide use of
  nuclear energy through the research, development, and demonstration of science
  and technology fields related to nuclear energy and its underlying sciences.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Financial assistance, in whole or in part, may be provided for the following in
  support of nuclear energy related research, development and demonstration
  activities: salaries, materials and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs,
  subcontractor and supporting costs required for technical activities, market
  analyses, financing plans and other activities necessary to achieve the objective.
  Restrictions on use of funds depend on solicitation and award provisions.
  Notices published in the Federal Register define research, development, and
  demonstration areas that the Department intends to support such as: advanced
  reactors, proliferation resistant fuel and reactor concepts, nuclear fuel and fuel
  cycles, advanced instrumentation, controls, simulation, modeling and analyses,
  nuclear waste management, construction, manufacturing and fabrication
  technologies, and related fundamental nuclear science areas in materials, reactor
  physics, chemistry and thermal hydraulics and fluid dynamics. Notices
  published in the Federal Register define development or demonstration projects
  and study areas activities that the Department intends to support such as:
  advanced designs, technologies or techniques, new regulatory or licensing
  requirements, and economic analyses.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federal, State, local governments, universities, consortia, nonprofit institutions,
  commercial corporations, and individuals may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any individual, partnership, corporation, association, joint venture, institution of
  higher education, or nonprofit organization will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-21 for institutions of higher education. Costs will be determined
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-122 for non-profit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by DOE and required by 10 CFR
  600 must be used to apply for financial assistance, as further specified in
  competitive solicitation(s). The application forms must be downloaded from the
  specific funding opportunity announcement posted on the Grants.gov web-site at
  http://www.grants.gov/. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O.12372.
Application Procedure:
  DOE solicitations set forth award procedures. Applications will receive an
  objective merit review. The objective merit review will be based on evaluation
  criteria set forth in the competitive solicitation. Evaluations will be coordinated
  by a Merit Review Chair and conducted by a review board. This responsibility
  will be performed by the Office of Nuclear Energy or delegated to a DOE
  Operations Office. Final decisions will be made by the approved Program
