  Officer or the delegated Source Selection Official.                               
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Deadlines:                                                                          
  As stated in each solicitation.                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Normally 6 to 9 months.                                                           
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:

  Proposals for renewal are subject to review and acceptance by the Program

  Director or Source Selection Official.                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Cost-sharing requirements may vary and will be specified in competitive           
  solicitations. Where there are no formal requirements, cost-sharing is

  encouraged.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  The period of performance and schedule of DOE payments is arranged at the         
  time of award.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                            
  The schedule of reports is arranged at the time of negotiation.                   
Audits:                                                                             
  Costs incurred are subject to audit throughout the period and/or before final     
  payment, with the extent and frequency of audit depending on the size of the      
  grant and on the particular award provisions. In accordance with the provisions   
  of OMB Circular No. A- 133, (Revised, June 24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local    
  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that receive      
  financial assistance of $300,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or  
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend 
  less than $300,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit         
  requirements that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133. Any for-profit     
  recipient that expends $500,000 or more in a year under Federal awards must       
  have an audit made for that year by an independent auditor, in accordance with    
  paragraph (b) of this section. If a recipient is currently performing under a     
  Federal award that requires an audit by its Federal cognizant agency, that auditor
  must perform the independent audit. The audit generally should be made a part     
  of the regularly scheduled, annual audit of the recipient's financial statements. 
  However, it may be more economical in some cases to have Federal awards           
  separately audited, and a recipient may elect to do so, unless that option is     
  precluded by award terms and conditions or by Federal laws or regulations         
  applicable to the program(s) under which the awards were made.                    
Records:                                                                            
  Award recipient is expected to maintain auditable records to substantiate total   
  costs incurred under the agreement and as required by the financial assistance    
  award.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                             
  89-0224-0-1-271.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  Grants (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $143,074,820; FY 08 est                     
  $125,000,000; and FY 09 est $150,000,000.                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  The general range of annual funding for a grant or cooperative agreement to a     
  single organization is, $100,000 to $500,000, with an approximate average of      
  $350,000. Grants or cooperative agreements involving multiple research            
  participants or large projects can be funded at higher annual amounts.            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Results and accomplishments have been made in nuclear energy research and         
  development under these programs and are reported to the greater nuclear          
  community in open scientific literature and at related nuclear conferences.       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  NE Federal Register notices; NE Solicitations; DOE Financial Assistance           
  Regulations (10 CFR 600); and the DOE Guide to Financial Assistance, which        
  may be accessed through the DOE Office of Procurement and Assistance              
  Management webpage at:                                                            
  http://www.management.energy.gov/policy_guidance.htm.                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Idaho Operations Office, 1955 Fremont Avenue, Idaho Falls, ID 83415. Nuclear      
  Programs Support Division, Contact: Kenny Osborne, Telephone: (208) 526-          
  0805.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office of Nuclear Energy, Germantown Building, 1000 Independence Avenue,          
  SW., Washington, DC 20585-1290. Office of the Deputy Assistant Secretary for      
  Nuclear Power Development (NE- 3), Contact: Suibel Schuppner. Telephone:          
  (301) 903-1652.                                                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.nuclear.gov.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  81.114, University Reactor Infrastructure and Education Support.                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Examples of projects funded with financial assistance can be found on the DOE     
                                                                                    


                                                                               11-08
  Office of Nuclear Energy Web Site under the program of interest.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Each proposal will be evaluated based on an objective merit review in
  accordance with the requirement of "DOE Financial Assistance Regulations" (10
  CFR 600) and the evaluation criteria set forth in the competitive solicitations.
  These criteria will include: appropriateness of the proposal method or approach,
  competency of research personnel and adequacy of proposed resources,
  reasonableness and appropriateness of the proposed budget, and other
  appropriate factors.
81.122 ELECTRICITY DELIVERY AND ENERGY
RELIABILITY, RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND
ANALYSIS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELECTRICITY DELIVERY AND ENERGY RELIABLITY,
  DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Energy Organization Act of 1977, as amended, Public Law 95-
  91; Energy Tax Act of 1978, Public Law 95-618; Energy Security Act of 1980,
  Public Law 96-294; Superconductivity and Competitiveness Act of 1988, Public
  Law 100-697; Energy Policy Act of 1992 (EPACT), Public Law 102-486;
  Energy Policy Act of 2005 (EPACT), Public Law 109-58.
OBJECTIVES:
  Through research, development, demonstration, technology transfer, and
  education and outreach activities, modernize and expand America's electric
  delivery system to ensure a more reliable and robust electricity supply, and
  enhance economic and national security. Develop cost-effective technology that
  enhances the reliability, efficiency, and resiliency of the electric grid, while
  enabling the effective utilization of emerging generation and demand-side
  management technologies and practices. Assure the security of the nation's
  energy infrastructure through research and programs to assess the critical
  functions of the nation's energy infrastructure and reduce its vulnerability, and to
  develop an effective emergency response system to protect and restore its
  capabilities in case of disruption or attack.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance may be used in the form of cost-shared cooperative agreements or
  grants to nonprofit and profit institutions and organizations to develop and
  transfer technologies or information developed through analysis and research to
  utilities, energy companies, energy regulators, state and local governments and
  other stakeholders.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All types of domestic entities are eligible to apply, such as profit organizations,
  private nonprofit institutions/organizations, universities, research organizations,
  and state and local governments. Not eligible are Federal agencies, Federally
  Funded Research and Development Center (FFRDC) Contractors, and nonprofit
  organizations described in section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of
  1986 that engaged in lobbying activities after December 31, 1995.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Profit organizations, private nonprofit institutions/organizations, universities,
  research organizations, and state and local governments benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by DOE and required by 10 CFR
  Part 600 must be used to apply for financial assistance, as further specified in
  competitive solicitation(s). The application forms must be downloaded from the
  specific funding opportunity announcement posted on the Grants.gov web site:
  http://www.grants.gov/.
Award Procedure:
  All applications which pass an initial review will receive an objective merit
  review. The objective merit review will be based on evaluation criteria set forth
  in the competitive solicitation(s) or criteria set forth in 10 CFR Part 600 for
  Unsolicited Proposals. Evaluations will be conducted by the Office of Electricity
  Delivery and Energy Reliability personnel at DOE Headquarters in Washington,
  DC. This responsibility may also be delegated to DOE Operations Offices and
  technical experts. Final decisions will be made by the Assistant Secretary, Office
  of Electricity Delivery and Energy Reliability.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Grants and cooperative agreements may be modified or extended.
                                                                                   1073
