81.126 FEDERAL LOAN GUARANTEES FOR INNOVATIVE                                          
ENERGY TECHNOLOGIES                                                                    
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  LOAN GUARANTEE PROGRAM OFFICE, DEPARTMENT OF ENERGY                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Energy Policy Act of 2005, Public Law 109-58, 119 Stat. 1117-1122, Title             
  XVII, 42 U.S.C. 15801, August 8, 2005.                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To encourage, through the use of Federal loan guarantees, early commercial use       
  in the United States of new or significantly improved technologies in energy         
  projects that; 1) avoid, reduce, or sequester air pollutants or anthropogenic        
  emissions of greenhouse gases; and (2) employ new or significantly improved          
  technologies as compared to commercial technologies in service in the United         
  States at the time the guarantee is issued. (42 U.S.C. 16513(a)).                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The assistance provides Federal loan guarantees for commercial technologies          
  that avoid, reduce, or sequester air pollutants or anthropogenic emissions of        
  greenhouse gases; and employ new or significantly improved technologies as           
  compared to commercial technologies in service in the United States at the time      
  the guarantee is issued and which provide a reasonable assurance of repayment.       
  Further Program information may be found at http://www.lgprogram.energy.gov.         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Any corporation, company, partnership, association, society, trust, joint venture,   
  joint stock company, or governmental nonfederal entity, that has the authority to    
  enter into, and is seeking, a loan guarantee for a loan or other debt obligation of  
  an Eligible Project.                                                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Small businesses, profit organizations, quasi-public nonprofits, public              
  institutions and interstate, intrastate, State and local governments will benefit    
  from the loan guarantee program.                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application procedures for a Department of Energy Title XVII loan guarantee          
  are unique to each solicitation issued by the Department. Potential applicants       
  should only apply for a loan guarantee under the specific funding opportunity        
  announcement posted on the Federal Government website at                             
  http://www.fedconnect.net. For additional information, see final regulations, 10     
  CFR Part 609, Loan Guarantees for Projects That Employ Innovative                    
  Technologies; Final Rule, published on October 23, 2007.                             
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Award Procedures are identified in the individual solicitations.                     
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Deadlines are identified in the solicitation.                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  The Range of approval/disapproval times are identified in individual                 
  solicitations.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Except for division C of Public Law 108-324, the Secretary shall make                
  guarantees under this or any other Act for projects on such terms and conditions

  as the Secretary determines, after consultation with the Secretary of the

  Treasury. This program has no statutory formula. This is a "self-pay" program.

  Applicants will pay the subsidy costs as determined by the credit subsidy

  calculation. Also, fees will be charged to recover DOE's administrative costs in

  managing the Loan Guarantee Program. A fee schedule will be determined. No

  guarantee shall be made unless: (1) an appropriation for the cost has been made;

  or (2) the Secretary has received from the borrower a payment in full for the cost

  of the obligation and deposited the payment into the Treasury. (42 U.S.C.

  16512.)

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  The term of an obligation shall require full repayment of principle and interest

  on the Guaranteed Obligations and other project debt over a period of up to the

  lesser of 30 years or 90 percent of the projected useful life of the project's major

  physical assets as calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting

  principles and practices.

Reports:

  None.

Audits:

  Costs incurred are subject to audit throughout the guarantee period and before

  final close-out. The extent and frequency of audits depend on the size of the

  guarantee and the specific guarantee provisions.

Records:

1076                                                                             11-08

  A recipient of a guarantee shall keep such records and other pertinent documents
  as the Secretary shall prescribe by regulation, including such records as the
  Secretary may require to facilitate an effective audit. The Secretary and the
  Comptroller General of the United States, or their duly authorized
  representatives, shall have access, for the purpose of audit, to the records and
  other pertinent documents.
Account Identification:
  89-0228-0-0-662.
Obligations:
  (Federal Loan Guarantee Authority) FY 07: 4,000,000,000; FY 08:
  $38,000,000,500; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The value of the loan guarantee will be determined on a project by project basis.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Final regulations have been published for the Loan Guarantee Program in the
  Federal Register: 10 CFR Part 609, Loan Guarantees for Projects That Employ
  Innovative Technologies; Final Rule, October 23, 2007. Sixteen project
  sponsors, who submitted preapplications, have been invited to submit full
  applications for loan guarantees.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The following list represents an overview of regulations, guidelines, and
  literature associated with the loan guarantee program. Solicitation Number: DE-
  PS01-06LG00001, - Loan Guarantee Solicitation Announcement, - Federal Loan
  Guarantees for Projects that Employ Innovative Technologies in Support of the
  Advanced Energy Initiative, Available at:
  http://www.lgprogram.energy.gov/Solicitationfinal.pdf Guidelines for Proposals
  Submitted in Response to the first Solicitation under Title XVII of the Energy
  Policy Act of 2005, Available at:
  http://www.lgprogram.energy.gov/FinalGuidelines.pdf. - Final Regulations -
  Final regulations were published in the Federal Register, 10 CFR 609, Loan
  Guarantees for Projects That Employ Innovative Technologies; Final Rule, on
  October 23, 2007.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Loan Guarantee Program Office, U.S. Department of Energy, 1000
  Independence Ave, SW, Washington, DC 20585; lgprogram@hq.doe.gov.
  Telephone: (202) 586-8336.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.lgprogram.energy.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects that may be eligible for a loan guarantee include: Renewable energy
  systems including wind, photovoltaics, biomass and hydropower projects;
  Advanced fossil energy technology including gasification, integrated
  gasification combined cycle, industrial gasification, petroleum coke gasification
  and coal to oil liquefaction projects; Efficient end use technologies; Hydrogen
  fuel cell technology for residential, industrial, or transportation applications;
  Advanced nuclear energy facilities; Carbon capture and sequestration practices
  and technologies, including agricultural and forestry practices that store and
  sequester carbon; Efficient electrical generation, transmission, and distribution
  technologies; Efficient end-use energy technologies; Production facilities for
  fuel efficient vehicles, including hybrid and advanced diesel vehicles; Pollution
  control equipment; and Refineries, meaning facilities at which crude oil is
  refined into gasoline.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to solicitation and guidelines for the criteria to be utilized.
