                                                       DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

84.002 ADULT EDUCATION - BASIC GRANTS TO STATES                                        
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF VOCATIONAL AND ADULT EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  EDUCATION                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Adult Education and Family Literacy Act; 20 U.S.C. 1209 et seq.                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To fund local programs of adult education and literacy services, including           
  workplace literacy services, family literacy services, and English literacy and

                                                                                       
  civics education programs. Participation in these programs is limited to adults

                                                                                       
  and out-of-school youths aged 16 and older.

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                       
  The Act lists specific performance measures by which States are assessed.

                                                                                       
  These include: demonstrated improvements in literacy skill levels in reading,

                                                                                       
  writing, and speaking in the English language, numeracy, problem-solving,

                                                                                       
  English language acquisition and other literacy skills; placement, retention, or

                                                                                       
  completion of postsecondary education, training, unsubsidized employment, or

                                                                                       
  career advancement; receipt of a high school diploma or its equivalent; other

                                                                                       
  objective, quantifiable measures, as identified by the State agency. Not more

                                                                                       
  than 12.5 percent of the State allotment may be used for State leadership

                                                                                       
  activities, including professional development; 82.5 percent of the State

                                                                                       
  allotment shall be used to support local programs and corrections education and

                                                                                       
  other institutionalized individuals. Not more than 8.25 percent of the State

                                                                                       
  allotment may be used for correctional education and other institutionalized

                                                                                       
  individuals; not more than 5 percent (or $65,000, whichever is greater) of the

                                                                                       
  State allotment may be used for State administrative costs. This program is          
  subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost

                                                                                       
  rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 76.564-76.569. For assistance call the

                                                                                       
  Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on 202-708-7770.           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Formula grants are made to designated eligible State agencies. State agencies

                                                                                       
  shall provide direct and equitable access to: Local educational agencies, public

                                                                                       
  or private nonprofit agencies, community-based organizations of demonstrated

                                                                                       
  effectiveness; institutions of higher education, volunteer literacy organizations of

                                                                                       
  demonstrated effectiveness; libraries, public housing authorities; nonprofit

                                                                                       
  institutions not described above that have the ability to provide literacy services

                                                                                       
  to adults and families, and consortia of the entities described above.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Out-of-school adults who are 16 years of age and older, who are not enrolled or      
  required to be enrolled in secondary school under State law, and who lack            
  sufficient mastery of basic educational skills to enable them to function            
  effectively in society or do not have a secondary school diploma or its              
  recognized equivalent, and have not achieved an equivalent level of education,       
  or are unable to speak, read, or write the English language.                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  A 5-year State plan as provided for in Section 224 of the Adult Education and        
  Family Literacy Act, Education Department General Administrative                     
  Regulations, 34 CFR 74, 76, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86. The State plan shall     
  include a certification from a State official that all provisions and amendments     
  thereto are consistent with the Act. Costs will be determined in accordance with     
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The Director of Adult Education and Literacy will provide guidance on specific       
  problems and technical assistance in the preparation of State Plans. This            
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review         
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official             
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Each eligible educational agency must submit to the Secretary of Education a 5-      
  year State plan that sets forth the manner and procedures under which the State      
  will carry out activities to achieve its program objectives and priorities and

  fulfill the purposes of the Act. This program is excluded from coverage under        
  OMB Circular No. A-110.

Award Procedure:

                                                                                       
  The Department approves the 5-year State plan and any amendment thereto and          
  makes allocations to the State.                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                             
  July 1.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 30 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                               
  States are afforded an opportunity for hearings.                                     
Renewals:                                                                              


                                                                                 11-08 
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  $100,000 initial allotment to Guam, American Samoa, Northern Mariana
  Islands, U.S. Virgin Islands, Micronesia, Marshall Islands, and Palau.
  Allotments reserved for Marshall Islands, Micronesia and Palau are awarded
  competitively pursuant to recommendations by the Pacific Region Educational
  Laboratory to Guam, American Samoa, Northern Mariana Islands, Marshall
  Islands, Micronesia, or Palau. No funds may be provided to Marshall Islands,
  Micronesia, and Palau as of fiscal year 2002. States and the District of Columbia
  and Puerto Rico receive a initial allotment of $250,000. The remainder is
  allotted to all eligible agencies on the basis of the ratio of adults age 16 and
  older who are not enrolled or required to be enrolled in secondary school under
  State law. No agency may receive less than 90 percent of its allotment for the
  preceding fiscal year. The data source is a special tabulation by the Bureau of
  the Census. To receive a grant, States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto
  Rico must provide a nonfederal contribution in an amount equal to 25 percent of
  the total amount of funds expended for adult education and literacy activities in
  the State. To receive a grant, eligible outlying agencies must provide a
  nonfederal contribution in an amount equal to 12 percent of the total amount of
  funds expended for adult education and literacy activities. This program has
  maintenance of effort (MOE) requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds must be expended within 27 months of their date of availability. States
  draw funds as needed under the Electronic Transfer System.
Reports:
  Annual Financial and Program Performance Reports in accordance with the
  provisions in EDGAR.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  In accordance with Section 443 of the General Education Provisions Act,
  grantees must maintain records for 3 years.
Account Identification:
  91-0400-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $563,975,000; FY 08 est $544,122,000; and FY 09 est
  $554,122,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Average: $10,440,129; Range: $891681 - $78,009,256.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  There were approximately 2.8 million participants in fiscal year 2005.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Adult Education General Provisions and State-Administered Basic Grant
  Program.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OVAE Division of Adult Education and Literacy 400
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-7100. Contact: Joyce Campbell.
  E-mail: joyce.campbell@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 205-5698.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/fund/grant/find//AdultEd/f-ogrant.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.010, Citizenship Education and Training; 84.191, Adult Education_National
  Leadership Activities; 84.255, Literacy Programs for Prisoners.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
84.004 CIVIL RIGHTS TRAINING AND ADVISORY
SERVICES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IV, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide technical assistance and training services to school districts to cope
  with educational problems occasioned by race, gender, and national origin
  desegregation.
                                                                                  1077
