TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds support Equity Assistance Centers to provide technical assistance and         
  training, upon request, in the areas of race, sex, and national origin to public    
  school districts and other responsible governmental agencies to promote             
  equitable education opportunities. The centers work in the areas of civil rights,   
  equity, and school reform. This assistance helps schools and communities ensure     
  that equitable education opportunities are available and accessible for all         
  children.                                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Any private, nonprofit organization or any public agency may apply.                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Educational personnel and elementary and secondary students in local school         
  districts benefit.                                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Submission of a proposal for one or more of the sections of Title IV, Civil         
  Rights Act of 1964. More detailed information may be found in the regulations.      
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State         
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations           
  also applies.                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Applicants may contact the Department of Education. This program is eligible        
  for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal

  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the

  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the

                                                                                      
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected 
  the program for review. The standard application forms as furnished by the          
  Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this

  program.                                                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Final recommendations are made following advice from a panel of peer                
  reviewers.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Published in the Federal Register.                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 30 to 90 Days.                                                        
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Equity assistance centers receive three-year awards if they meet the criteria for   
  annual continuation in the regulations. Renewals are subject to the availability of 
  appropriations.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                      
  Funds are appropriated on an annual basis.

                                                                                      
Reports:

  In accordance with OMB Circular No. A-102 (Attachments H and I) and ED              
  General Administrative Regulations for Direct Project Grant and Contract            
                                                                                      
  Programs, 34 CFR 74, 75.

                                                                                      
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
                                                                                      
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of 500,000 or more in

                                                                                      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                      
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than 500,000 a year in Federal awards

                                                                                      
  are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in

                                                                                      
  Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                      
Records:

                                                                                      
  In accordance with Section 443 of the General Education Provisions Act,

                                                                                      
  grantees must maintain records for three years.

                                                                                      
Account Identification:

  91-1000-0-1-501.                                                                    
                                                                                      
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $7,113,000; FY 08 est $6,989,000; and FY 09 est $6,989,000.          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  The average fiscal year 2007 continuation award was $718,506.                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Awards were made to ten equity assistance centers in FY 05. Each center is          
  responsible for providing technical assistance on the basis of race, gender, and    
  national origin. New awards will be made in FY 08.                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  34 CFR 270, 271, and 272 apply.                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  School Support and Technology Programs, Office of Elementary and Secondary          
  Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact:                


1078                                                                            11-08

  Sandra Brown. Telephone: (202) 260-2638. E-mail: Sandra.brown@ed.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/equitycenters/index.html or
  http://www.ed.gov/about/contacts/gen/othersites/equity.html
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.165, Magnet Schools Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Equity assistance centers provide training and technical assistance to public
  school districts in the States in their geographical service area. Typical activities
  include the dissemination of general information on such topics as successful
  educational practices and legal requirements related to non- discrimination on
  the basis of race, gender, and national origin in educational programs; training
  designed to develop educators' skills in specific areas, such as the identification
  of race and sex bias in instructional materials; and technical assistance in the
  identification and selection of appropriate educational programs to meet the
  needs of limited English speaking students. In all instances, the assistance
  provided is at the request of the local educational agency.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  New equity assistance center applications are evaluated on the basis of selection
  criteria, in Section 272.30(a)-(g), addressing mission and strategy,
  organizational capability, plan of operation, quality of key personnel, budget and
  cost-effectiveness, evaluation plan, and adequacy of resources. The highest
  ranking application for each geographical service area is selected for an award.
84.007 FEDERAL SUPPLEMENTAL EDUCATIONAL
OPPORTUNITY GRANTS
   (FSEOG)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL STUDENT AID, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title IV, Part A, Subpart 3, 20
  U.S.C. 1070b-1070b-3.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide eligible undergraduate postsecondary students with demonstrated
  financial need with grant assistance to help meet educational expenses.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are for undergraduate study, and range from $100 to $4,000 per academic
  year. However, if reasonable study abroad costs exceed the cost of attendance at
  the home institution, the amount of the grant may exceed the $4,000 maximum
  by as much as $400. A student is eligible to receive a FSEOG for the period of
  time needed to complete the first undergraduate baccalaureate course of study
  being pursued by that student. If it awards grants to students in that year an
  institution is entitled to an administrative cost allowance for an award year of 5
  percent of the first $2,750,000, expended plus 4 percent of expenditures greater
  than $2,750,000 but less than $5,500,000, plus 3 percent of expenditures in
  excess of $5,500,000.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Higher education institutions (public, private nonprofit, postsecondary
  vocational, and proprietary) meeting eligibility requirements may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Undergraduate students enrolled or accepted for enrollment as regular students;
  are maintaining satisfactory academic progress in accordance with the standards
  and practices of the institution, have financial need, do not owe a refund on a
  Title IV grant, are not in default on a Title IV loan, file a statement of
  educational purpose, file a statement of registration compliance (Selective
  Service) and meet citizen/resident requirements may benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Institutions must document their eligibility and students must demonstrate
  financial need. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Representatives of the appropriate ED Regional Office are available for
  consultation (see listing of ED Regional Offices in Appendix IV). Students
  should contact the institution(s) they attend or wish to attend. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Participating institutions submit the Fiscal Operations Report/Application to
  Participate in Federal Student Financial Aid Programs (ED Form 646-1) which
  is mailed to institutions of postsecondary education each summer by the Federal
  Student Aid office. New institutions submit only the application form. This
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The Federal Student Aid office determines final awards and notifies
  participating institutions.
Deadlines:
