  Specified on the application (usually October 1). Contact the program office for    
  additional information.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Notices of tentative awards sent by February 1, and final award notifications       
  sent by April 1.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  There are annual renewals.                                                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Funds are allocated to institutions on the basis of the insitution's base guarantee 
  and pro rata share and then on demonstrated need for funding. Institutions          
  award funds to students on the basis of financial need as determined by the         
  Federal Needs Analysis Methodology specified in statute. This program requires      
  institutional matching funds. The Federal share may not exceed 75 percent           
  unless waived based on objective criteria established in regulations.               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Funds are awarded for use by participating institutions for one award year at a     
  time following the year of application.                                             
Reports:                                                                              
  A single combined Fiscal Operations Report/Application form for Federal             
  Perkins Loans, FSEOG, and FWS (ED 646-1) is submitted by each institution at        
  the close of each award year (June 30).                                             
Audits:                                                                               
  Institutions must have a nonfederal audit done on at least an annual basis at its   
  own expense. Audits are performed at Government expense by the Department           
  of Education's Office of the Inspector General as often as its time schedule will   
  allow or when deemed necessary by the Secretary.                                    
Records:                                                                              
  All records pertaining to the activities of a given fiscal year must be retained for
  a period of three years following the institution's submission of its Fiscal        
  Operations Report for an award year or until resolution of an applicable audit,     
  whichever is later.                                                                 
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-0200-0-1-502.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $770,933,000; FY 08 est $757,465,000; and FY 09 est $0.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  The estimated average award to students was approximately $764.                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Institutions will award $958,816,000 in aid to 1,254,995 students.                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  34 CFR 676, Student Guide fact sheet, no charge; Student Financial Aid              
  Handbook, no charge; Notification to Members of Congress, list of grantees,         
  published annually or as required, no charge; Federal Needs Analysis                
  Methodology Booklet, no charge; Verification Handbook, no charge; training          
  materials, no charge.                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Students should contact the educational institution(s) they attend or plan to       
  attend. Educational institutions should contact the Regional Administrator for      
  Student Financial Assistance in the appropriate ED Regional Office (see             
  Appendix IV of the Catalog).                                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Federal Student Aid, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue,        
  SW., Washington, DC 20202-5446. Federal Student Aid Information Center              
  Telephone: 1-800-4FED-AID (800-433-3243).                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://ifap.ed.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  64.117, Survivors and Dependents Educational Assistance; 84.031, Higher             
  Education_Institutional Aid; 84.032, Federal Family Education Loans; 84.033,        
  Federal Work-Study Program; 84.038, Federal Perkins Loan Program_Federal            
  Capital Contributions; 84.042, TRIO_Student Support Services; 84.044,               
  TRIO_Talent Search; 84.047, TRIO_Upward Bound; 84.063, Federal Pell Grant           
  Program; 84.066, TRIO_Educational Opportunity Centers; 84.069, Leveraging           
  Educational Assistance Partnership.                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
84.010 TITLE I GRANTS TO LOCAL EDUCATIONAL                                            
AGENCIES                                                                              
                                                                                      
   (Title I Basic, Concentration, Targeted and Education Finance                      
  Incentive Grants)                                                                   
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             


                                                                                 11-08
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, Title I, Part A, 20 U.S.C.
  6301 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To help local education agencies (LEAs) and schools improve the teaching and
  learning of children failing, or most at-risk of failing, to meet challenging State
  academic standards.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Use of funds varies, depending on whether a school is operating a schoolwide
  program under Section 1114 of Title I or a targeted assistance program under
  Section 1115. A school with at least a 40 percent poverty rate may choose to
  operate a schoolwide program under Section 1114 that allows Title I funds to be
  combined with other Federal, State, and local funds to upgrade the school's
  overall instructional program. All other participating schools must operate
  targeted assistance programs, which provide extra instruction to those children
  failing, or most at risk of failing, to meet challenging State academic standards.
  Targeted assistance programs must ensure that Title I services supplement, not
  supplant the regular education programs normally provided by State and local
  educational agencies. This program is subject to non-supplanting requirements
  and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR
  76.564-76.569. For assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial
  Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State educational agencies (SEAs) and the Secretary of the Interior. Local
  educational agencies (LEAs) and Indian tribal schools are subgrantees.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Children who are failing, or most at risk of failing, to meet challenging State
  academic standards.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  SEAs apply for funds as part of Title I, Part A, State plans submitted to the
  Department of Education in accordance with Section 1111 of ESEA or as part of
  a consolidated State plan submitted under Section 9302 of ESEA. The plan
  remains in effect for the duration of the State's participation in Title I, Part A,
  but must be updated to reflect substantive changes. Participating LEA's must file
  an approved plan with their SEAs.
Award Procedure:
  The Department of Education (ED) makes grants through SEAs to LEAs using
  statutory formulas based primarily on Census Bureau estimates of the number of
  children from low-income families in each LEA.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are established by each SEA.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Varies with each State.
Appeals:
  If an LEA's plan is disapproved by the SEA it may appeal to the SEA and then to
  the Department of Education under Section 432 of the General Education
  Provision Act (GEPA).
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The statute includes four separate formulas for allocating Title I Grants to LEAs.
   Under the statute, Basic and Concentration Grants are funded at the 2001
  appropriation level. Basic Grants are allocated to almost all local educational
  agencies based on each State's per-pupil expenditure for education and the
  number of school-aged children from low-income families. Concentration Grants
  are allocated to LEAs having more than 6,500 children from low-income
  families or a poverty rate of more than 15 percent. In addition, funds
  appropriated in excess of the fiscal year 2001 level are to be distributed as
  Targeted Grants, which make higher payments to LEAs with higher numbers or
  percentages of poor children. The law also includes a separately authorized
  Education Finance Incentive Grants formula, which incorporates factors
  designed to measure a State's commitment to provide sufficient education
  funding, as well as how equitably that funding is distributed across districts.
  Allocations from all four formulas are combined into a single award to eligible
  LEAs. Within LEAs, funds are targeted to schools with the greatest percentages
  of poor children. The Bureau of Indian Affairs, Outlying Areas, and the Pacific
  Regional Education Laboratory also receive funding.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, awards to States are made from July 1 to September 30 of the
  following year. In addition, funds remain available to States for an additional
  fiscal year for obligation and expenditure.
Reports:
  States submit annual performance reports.
Audits:
                                                                                  1079
