  vocational instruction and career education services; special guidance,              
  counseling, and testing services; health services; and preschool services.           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
84.013 TITLE I PROGRAM FOR NEGLECTED AND                                               
                                                                                       
DELINQUENT CHILDREN                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act; Title I, Part D, Subpart 1.                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To help provide education continuity for children and youth in State-run             
  institutions for juveniles and in adult correctional institutions, so that these     
  youth can make successful transitions to school or employment once they are          
  released from State institutions.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds are used for educational or educationally related services. State juvenile     
  institutions are eligible to use funds for institutionwide programs that integrate   
  activities with other Federal, State, and local education programs in the            
  institution. In facilities not operating institutionwide programs, services must be  
  used to supplement, not supplant, those normally provided with State funds.          
  This program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use a               
  restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 76.564-76.569.        
  For assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group    
  on (202) 708-7770.                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State educational agencies (SEAs). State agencies responsible for providing free     
  public education for those children in institutions who are neglected or             
  delinquent, responsible for children who are enrolled in education programs in       
  adult correctional facilities, and responsible for those children in community day   
  programs who are neglected or delinquent may apply to their state education          
  agencies for subgrants.                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Children in a State institution for neglected or delinquent children, or in an adult 
  correctional institution, or a community day school operated by a State agency.      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                                 
  A SEA may apply for State Agency Neglected and Delinquent funds as (1) part

                                                                                       
  of its Title I, Part D, State plan submitted to ED under Section 1414 of ESEA or

  (2) as part of a consolidated State plan under Section 14302 of ESEA. To             
  receive funds State agencies must apply to the SEA and provide information and       
  assurance required in Section 1414 of ESEA.                                          
Award Procedure:

  The Department of Education's Office of Elementary and Secondary Education           
  awards grants to State educational agencies, that in turn, award subgrants to the    
  State agencies that have submitted applications.                                     
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Established by the SEAs.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Varies with each State.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Although State plans are effective for the duration of Title I's authorization,      
  SEAs are required to update plans to reflect changes. State agencies must            
  update their applications annually to receive funds.                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Funds are allocated through a formula based on the number of children in State-      
  operated institutions and per-pupil education expenditures for the State. Each       
  State's allocation is generated by child counts in State institutions that provide at
  least 20 hours of instruction from nonfederal funds; adult correctional              
  institutions must provide 15 hours a week.                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Generally, awards to States are made from July 1 to September 30 of the              
  following year. In addition, funds remain available to the State for an additional   
  fiscal year for obligation and expenditure.                                          
Reports:                                                                               
  Each State agency conducting a Part D program is required to evaluate the            
  program's impact on students served at least once every three years.                 
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administrative                   
  Regulations in the Appendix to 34 CFR 80, State and local governments that           




                                                                                  11-08
  receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more within the State's fiscal year
  shall have an audit made for that year. State and local governments that receive
  between $25,000 and $500,000 within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit
  made in accordance with the Appendix to Part 80, or in accordance with Federal
  laws and regulations governing the programs in which they participate.
Records:
  In accordance with the General Educational Provisions Act and the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations, certain project records must be
  maintained for three years.
Account Identification:
  91-0900-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $49,797,000; FY 08 $48,927,000; and FY 09 est $51,927.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $88,313 to $3,240,075; the
  average award is expected to be $917,382.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2008, approximately 1104 institutions are expected to participate, in 50
  States and the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  34 CFR 200. Contact the program office for additional information.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OESE Student Achievement and School
  Accountability Programs 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Rm. 3W214, FB-6
  Washington DC 20202-6132. Contact: Gary Rutkin. E-mail:
  gary.rutkin@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 260-4412.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/titleipartd/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.010, Title I Grants to Local Educational Agencies; 84.011, Migrant
  Education_State Grant Program; 93.645, Child Welfare Services_State Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funds generally provide supplemental instruction in core academic subjects,
  such as reading and mathematics. In addition, funds support counseling,
  tutoring, and projects to facilitate the transition of children from State
  institutions back to locally operated schools.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  State agencies are eligible to receive assistance if they are providing free public
  education for children who are (1) in institutions for neglected or delinquent
  children; (2) attending community day programs for neglected or delinquent
  children; or (3) in adult correctional institutions.
84.015 NATIONAL RESOURCE CENTERS PROGRAM FOR
FOREIGN LANGUAGE AND AREA STUDIES OR FOREIGN
LANGUAGE AND INTERNATIONAL STUDIES PROGRAM
AND FOREIGN LANGUAGE AND AREA STUDIES
FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title VI, Part A, Section 602, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  Centers: To promote instruction in those modern foreign languages and area and
  international studies that are critical to national needs by supporting the
  establishment, strengthening and operation of such programs at colleges and
  universities. Centers may focus on undergraduate training only or may be
  comprehensive, including undergraduate, graduate, and professional training
  components. Fellowships: To meet the needs of the United States for experts in
  modern foreign languages combined with area studies and world affairs by
  supporting fellowships for graduate study at institutions for higher education.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Centers: Funds may be used for instructional costs of language and area and
  international studies programs, administration, lectures, conferences, library
  resources and staff, outreach, and travel. Fellowships: Funds may be used for
  academic year and summer fellowships to institutions of higher education
  (IHEs) in order to assist graduate students in acquiring foreign language and
  either area or international studies competencies.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Centers: Accredited American colleges and universities may apply. Applying
  institutions provide evidence of existing resources and institutional commitment
  to language and area and international studies through a curriculum that
  provides instruction dealing with a particular world area and its languages, with
  comparative world area studies, or with the international aspects of professional
                                                                                   1081
