  or other fields of study. Fellowships: Accredited U.S. institutions of higher       
  education offering comprehensive graduate area or international studies             
  programs combined with language study are eligible to apply for allocations of      
  fellowships.                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Centers: Accredited American colleges and universities will benefit.                
  Fellowships: Graduate students enrolled in funded centers and programs will         
  benefit. Student candidates must be U.S. citizens or nationals or permanent         
  residents training in area or international studies and in modern foreign           
  languages programs that have or are developing performance-based language           
  instruction. Training must be undertaken through an institution that has an         
  allocation of Foreign Language and Area Studies (FLAS) Fellowships.                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Eligible institutions may submit proposals for the funding of centers only,         
  fellowships only, or both when the announcement of a new competition is issued      
  in the Federal Register. Application forms and guidelines for the submission of     
  proposals are available from the Advanced Training and Research Team of the         
  International Education and Programs Service (IEPS). This program is subject        
  to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Centers: Final recommendations are made to the Secretary following                  
  evaluations from panels of experts that evaluate applications according to          
  published selection criteria. Fellowships: The student should contact his/her       
  sponsoring institution for information concerning application forms, deadlines,     
  and related matters. Institutional proposals are approved or disapproved by the     
  Secretary, following the same procedures as for Center applications.                
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Will be announced in the Federal Register and are usually in November of the        
  year preceding the grant period. Contact the program office for more                
  information.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  About 120 days.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Higher education institutions receiving funds for three year phased program         
  support must submit annual performance reports for the second and third year        
  for continuation of such support. Students seeking fellowships apply to their       
  institutions for each summer or academic year award period. Renewals are            
  subject to the availability of funds.                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Centers: Grants are awarded for 12-month budget periods, subject to renewals        
  of 1 or 2 years. Payments are made as stipulated in the grant. Renewals are         
  subject to the availability of funds. Fellowships: Academic year second summer      
  fellowships payments to student recipients are made by the institutions on a        
  competitive basis. If summer fellowships are issued, they will be for a summer      
  session in which the equivalent of an academic year's foreign language study is     
  completed. Payments are made by the grantee institution.

Reports:

  Centers: All programs must provide performance reports upon completion of

                                                                                      
  each year's budget period and a final report of project accomplishments at the      
  end of the grant. Financial reports are also required. Fellowships: Performance     
  reports from fellowship award recipients at the end of each award period.           
  Institutional final reports (awards lists) and financial reports are required       
  annually.                                                                           
Audits:                                                                               
  Centers: All fiscal records will be subject to audit by the Education Department    
  at any time within 3 years after expiration of the grants. Fellowships: Fiscal      
  records of institutions administering fellowship funds will be subject to audit by  
  the Department at any time within 5 years after the close of the fiscal year in     
  which grant funds are all spent.                                                    
Records:                                                                              
  All records supporting claims under grant or relating to the accountability for     
  awarded funds must be available upon request: (1) For 3 years after close of the    
  fiscal year in which the grant expired or (2) until the grantee is notified of      
  completion of Federal financial audit, whichever is later. Fellowships: All         
  records bearing on the receipt and expenditure of funds under the program must      
  be available for inspection by the Department: (1) For 3 years after the fiscal     
  year in which grant funds are spent, (2) until audit or for 5 years after grant, or 
  (3) until resolution of any audit questions.                                        


1082                                                                            11-08

Account Identification:
  91-0201-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  (Grants) Centers: FY 07 $28,812,463; FY 08 est $29,634,500 and FY 09 est
  $29,040,000. Fellowships: FY 07 $29,359,000; FY 08 est $29,934,000 and FY
  09 est $29,995,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Centers: For FY 2008, the range of awards for Centers is expected to be
  $175,000 to $270,000; the average award is expected to be $237,000. For FY
  2008, the range of Fellowship awards is expected to be $94,000; the averge
  award is expected to be $242,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Centers and Fellowships: In fiscal year 2008, 125 National Resource Centers are
  expected to be funded at institutions of higher education and 125 Foreign
  Language and Area Studies Fellowship grants are expected to be awarded to
  institutions of higher education.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  34 CFR 655, 656, and 657, and the Education Department General
  Administrtive Regulations.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  International Education Programs Services, Office of Postsecondary Education,
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC
  20202-5331. Contact: (Centers) Carla White E-mail: carla.white@ed. gov.
  Telephone: (202) 502-7631; Cheryl Gibbs Telephone: 202-502-7630. E-mail:
  cheryl.gibbs@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 502-7634. Contact (Fellowships) Peter
  Baker; E-mail: peter.baker@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 219-7060.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpsnrc/; or
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpsflasf/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.016, Undergraduate International Studies and Foreign Language Programs;
  84.017, International Research and Studies; 84.021, Overseas Programs - Group
  Projects Abroad; 84.022, Overseas Programs - Doctoral Dissertation Research
  Abroad; 84.220, Centers for International Business Education; 84.229,
  Language Resource Centers.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The University of Washington/East Asia Studies Center offers training programs
  in East Asian languages and in a wide variety of disciplines at both the
  undergraduate and graduate levels and in professional schools. The Center for
  Advanced Study of International Development and the Women and International
  Development programs at Michigan State University offer courses and activities
  focused on development studies in the new era of globalization. University of
  Wisconsin/Latin American Studies Center offers courses in languages and in
  many disciplines at the undergraduate level in all participating campuses. The
  Madison and Milwaukee campuses offer extensive graduate and some
  professional training programs in Latin American studies as well.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  34 CFR 655, 656, and 657 apply to the Centers and Fellowships Programs.
  Selection criteria for evaluating applications and selecting centers are listed in
  the Title VI, International Education Program Regulations in 34 CFR 655.31,
  656.21 or 656.22. The Secretary will weigh criteria using points indicated in the
  application package or in a notice published in the Federal Register 656.21 or
  656.22. Part 657.21 gives the criteria for selection of institutional awards for
  fellowship allocations. The Secretary will weigh criteria using points indicated
  in the application package or in a notice published in the Federal Register.
84.016 UNDERGRADUATE INTERNATIONAL STUDIES
AND FOREIGN LANGUAGE PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title VI, Part A, Section 604, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  The Undergraduate International Studies and Foreign Language Program issues
  awards to institutions of higher education and public and nonprofit private
  agencies and organizations. The purpose of the awards is to: (1) Assist
  institutions of higher education to plan, develop, and carry out a program to
  strengthen and improve undergraduate instruction in international studies and
  foreign languages; and (2) assist associations and organizations to develop
  projects that will make an especially significant contribution to strengthening
  and improving undergraduate instruction in international studies and foreign
  languages.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Each program assisted with federal funds must primarily enhance the
