  international academic program of the institution. Eligible activities may include 
  but are not limited to: development of a global or international studies program   
  that is interdisciplinary in design; development of a program that focuses on      
  issues or topics, such as international business or international health;          
  development of an area studies program and its corresponding foreign               
  languages; creation of innovative curricula that combine the teaching of           
  international studies with professional and preprofessional studies, such as       
  engineering; research for and development of specialized teaching materials,       
  including language instruction, i.e., business French; establishment of            
  internship opportunities for faculty and students in domestic and overseas         
  settings; and development of study abroad programs. This program is subject to     
  non-supplanting requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate, which   
  is referenced under 34 CFR 75.563. For assistance call the Office of the Chief     
  Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Accredited colleges and universities, and public and nonprofit private agencies    
  and organizations.                                                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Accredited colleges and universities, and public and nonprofit private agencies    
  and organizations.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. This program is excluded from           
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.                                             
Application Procedure:                                                               
  When funds are available for the support of new programs, announcements are        
  issued in the Federal Register. Application forms and guidelines for submission    
  of proposals are available from the Undergraduate International Studies and        
  Foreign Language Program. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB         
  Circular No. A-110.                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Final recommendations are made to the Secretary of Education following advice      
  from a panel of consultants in accordance with the published criteria.             
Deadlines:                                                                           
  A closing date generally appears in Federal Register in August. Contact the        
  program office for more information.                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  About 150 days.                                                                    
Appeals:

  None.

Renewals:

                                                                                     
  Institutions of higher education and associations and organizations currently      
  receiving funds for two or three year phased program support must submit           
  performance reports for continuation funding according to instructions             
  established by the Department. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The non-Federal share of the cost of the programs assisted may be provided in      
  cash from the private sector corporations or foundations in an amount equal to     
  one-third of the total cost of the programs or may be provided as an in-cash or    
  in-kind contribution from institutional and noninstitutional funds, including      
  State and private sector corporation or foundation contributions, equal to one-    
  half of the total cost of the programs assisted herein. The Secretary may waive    
  or reduce the matching requirement for institutions that are eligible to receive   
  assistance under part A or B of Title III or under Title V of the Higher Education 
  Act of 1965, as amended.                                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants are awarded for 12-month periods, subject to renewals of one or two         
  years. Payments are made as stipulated in the grant. Renewals are subjects to      
  the availability of funds.                                                         
Reports:                                                                             
  All programs must provide final reports upon completion of the program.            
Audits:                                                                              
  All fiscal records will be subject to audit any time within three years after      
  expiration of the grant.                                                           
Records:                                                                             
  All records supporting claims under a grant or relating to the accountability for  
  awarded funds must be available upon request: (1) For three years after close of   
  the fiscal year in which contract was liquidated; or (2) until the grantee is      
  notified of completion of Federal financial audit, whichever is later.             
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0201-0-1-502.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,300,000; FY 08 $4,296,000; and FY 09 est $4,311,000.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  For FY 2008, the range of awards for a single institution is expected to be        


                                                                                11-08
  $50,000 to $90,000; the average award is expected to be $75,000. For FY 2008,
  the range of awards for consortia/organizations/associations is $80,000 to
  $140,000; the average award is expected to be $110,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Twenty-five new grants and 30 continuation grants are expected to be awarded
  in FY 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  34 CFR 655 and 658, and the Education Department General Administrative
  Regulations.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  International Education Programs Service, Office of Postsecondary Education,
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-
  5331. Contact: Christine Corey. Telephone: (202) 502-7629. Email:
  Christine.corey@ed.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpsugisf/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.015, National Resource Centers Program for Foreign Language and Area
  Studies or Foreign Language and International Studies Program and Foreign
  Language and Area Studies Fellowship Program; 84.018, Overseas
  Programs_Special Bilateral Projects; 84.019, Overseas Programs - Faculty
  Research Abroad; 84.021, Overseas Programs - Group Projects Abroad; 84.022,
  Overseas Programs - Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad; 84.229, Language
  Resource Centers.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Consortium for Inter-Institutional Collaboration in African and Latin-
  American Studies, situated at Michigan State University, is characterized by a
  series of on-campus and in-country intensive language and area studies
  institutes, organized through cooperation with 20 or more Historically Black
  Colleges and Universities (HBCU), 12 liberal arts colleges in the Great Lakes
  Colleges Association (GLCA), and several institutions in the Associated
  Colleges of the Midwest (ACM). Wayne State University will develop an
  interdisciplinary program in Eastern Europe, representing a collaborative effort
  between the School of Business, the Department of German and Slavic Studies
  and Wayne State University.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  In addition to evaluation on the basis of criteria found in the Education Division
  General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) in 34 CFR 74, 75, 77, and 78 the
  Secretary will further evaluate applications for Federal support for international
  studies programs in accordance with the criteria published in 34 CFR 655, 658,
  and 45 CFR 86872.
84.017 INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH AND STUDIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title VI, Part A, Section 605, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve foreign language, area, and other international studies training
  through support of research, studies, experimentation, development of
  specialized instructional materials, and the publication of specialized materials
  developed as a result of research conducted under this program.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The program supports research and studies that may include but are not limited
  to: (1) Studies and surveys to determine needs for increased or improved
  instruction in foreign language, area studies, or other international fields
  including the demand for foreign language, area, and other international
  specialists in government, education, and the private sector; (2) studies and
  surveys to assess the utilization of graduates of programs supported under this
  title by governmental, educational, and private sector organizations and other
  studies assessing the outcomes and effectiveness of programs so supported; (3)
  comparative studies of the effectiveness of strategies to provide international
  capabilities at institutions of higher education; (4) research on more effective
  methods of providing instruction and achieving competency in foreign
  languages; (5) the development and publication of specialized materials for use
  in foreign language, area studies, and other international fields, or for training
  foreign language, area and other international specialists; (6) the application of
  performance tests and standards across all areas of foreign language instruction
  and classroom use, and (7) other research or materials development projects that
  further the purposes of the International Education Programs authorized by Part
  A of Title VI of the HEA. Funds awarded under this program may not be used
  for the training of students and teachers.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public and private agencies, organizations, institutions, and individuals may
                                                                                  1083
