  apply.                                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Public and private agencies, organizations, institutions, and individuals will        
  benefit.                                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State           
  and local governments.                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required        
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is              
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Formal applications should be prepared in response to announcements of                
  mandatory program requirements and closing dates in the Federal Register. This        
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                       
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Applications are reviewed by Department of Education specialists and review

  panels of scholars.

Deadlines:

                                                                                        
  Will be announced in the Federal Register and are normally in                         
  October/November of the year preceding the grant period. Contact the program          
  office for more information.                                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  From six to seven months.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:

                                                                                        
  Projects conducted under a grant may be phased, with the phases following the

                                                                                        
  first phase subject to renewal on a non-competitive basis. Renewals of grants,

                                                                                        
  which were not included in the original negotiations, will be considered in

                                                                                        
  competition with all other new applications and are dependent on the submission

                                                                                        
  of reports that demonstrate that substantial progress has been made.

                                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  None.                                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Depends on project, but is generally from 12 to 36 months. Phasing of projects

                                                                                        
  is determined during the negotiation process.

                                                                                        
Reports:

                                                                                        
  A final report or subject data as established through negotiation. Interim

                                                                                        
  progress reports and a financial report are required.

                                                                                        
Audits:                                                                                 
  All fiscal records will be subject to audit by the Department at any time within

                                                                                        
  three years after expiration of the contract or grant.

                                                                                        
Records:

                                                                                        
  All records supporting claims under grants or relating to accountability for

                                                                                        
  awarded funds must be available on request: (1) For three years after close of the

                                                                                        
  fiscal year of grant expiration or (2) until the grantee is notified of completion of

                                                                                        
  the Federal audit, whichever is later.

                                                                                        
Account Identification:

                                                                                        
  91-0201-0-1-502.

                                                                                        
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $5,822,840; FY 08 $4,288,000; and FY 09 est $6,837,000.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $50,000 to $200,000; the           
  average award is expected to be $114,000.                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  For FY 2008, 14 new awards and 32 continuation awards are expected to be              
  made.                                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Program regulations are available at 34 CFR 655, 660, and the Education               
  Department General Administrative Regulations. Contact the program office for         
  information.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  International Education Programs Service, Office of Postsecondary Education,          
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-               
  5331. Contact: Ed McDermott. Telephone: (202) 502-7636. E-mail:                       
  Ed.mcdermott@ed.gov.                                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpsirs/.                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  84.015, National Resource Centers Program for Foreign Language and Area               
  Studies or Foreign Language and International Studies Program and Foreign             
  Language and Area Studies Fellowship Program; 84.016, Undergraduate                   
  International Studies and Foreign Language Programs; 84.018, Overseas                 
  Programs_Special Bilateral Projects; 84.019, Overseas Programs - Faculty              
  Research Abroad; 84.021, Overseas Programs - Group Projects Abroad; 84.022,           
  Overseas Programs - Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad; 84.229, Language           
  Resource Centers.                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            


1084                                                                              11-08

  "HEA Title VI, Part A, Section 606: An Assessment Study"; "National
  Proficiency Tests in Ukrainian and Croatian"; "Teaching about the Americas:
  An Electronic Curriculum"; "Instructional Materials on China and Japan";
  "Proficiency-based Business Arabic"; "A CD-ROM-based Video in Japanese
  Language and Culture"; "Middle East Curriculum and Dissemination Project";
  "Teaching Materials for Russian Language Instruction at the Secondary Schools
  Level"; "Africa: Media and Education Project"; "Survey of Foreign Language
  Entrance and Degree Requirements in U.S. Colleges and Universities."
  International Law - Video Course and Learner's Guide, Hausa Language and
  Culture Video Project, The Muslim Middle East: Curriculum Development and
  Dissemination Project.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The criteria for selecting proposals is stated in 34 CFR 655.31, 660.31, 660.32,
  and 660.33. The Secretary will evaluate applications in accordance with the
  published criteria. An applicant may receive as many as five or ten points or as
  few as zero points under each criterion. (20 U.S.C. 1121-1127, 3063- 3065.)
84.018 OVERSEAS PROGRAMS-SPECIAL BILATERAL
PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, Section 102(b)(6), as
  amended, Public Law 87-256.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase mutual understanding and knowledge between the people of the
  United States and those in other countries by offering qualified U.S. educators
  opportunities to participate in short-term study seminars abroad on topics in the
  social sciences and the humanities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Program funds provide round-trip economy airfare, room and board, tuition and
  fees for seminars. Actual locations may vary from year-to-year. No dependents
  are to accompany awardees participating in seminars.
Applicant Eligibility:
  (1) Applicants must be U.S. citizens or have permanent resident status; (2) must
  hold a bachelor's degree; (3) must have at least 3 years full-time in teaching,
  administering or supervising in the humanities, the social sciences or social
  studies subjects; (4) applicants must be currently employed full-time in teaching,
  administering or supervising in the aforementioned areas; (5) applicants also
  must meet any language requirements if applicable (see the application booklet
  for details). If selected, awardees must furnish evidence of good health and
  emotional maturity.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  (1) Undergraduate faculty members of four year colleges/universities and 2-year
  community colleges in the fields of the humanities and social sciences; (2)
  supervisors and secondary (grades 9 through 12) and elementary and junior high
  school (grades K through 8) teachers of social studies and humanities; and (3)
  curriculum development specialists, administrators of local and State education
  agencies who have direct responsibility for developing curriculum in the subject
  areas encompassed by the social sciences and the humanities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants' basic data; education and professional preparation; present and
  previous employment; specific statement of objectives; plans to utilize the
  knowledge and experience gained from the seminar; involvement in
  educational/professional/civic groups, associations/organizations; personal
  traits; honors/awards/publications, etc. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  International Education Graduate Programs Service, Department of Education,
  publishes an annual announcement of opportunities and conducts open
  competition to select participants. Binational commissions or foundations or
  other appropriate agencies receive funding to conduct the seminars. The
  standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and as required by
  OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Eligible applicants may submit applications for a position in one of the seminars
  when the announcement of a new competition is made though journals,
  newsletters, educational associations, individuals, etc. This program is excluded
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Recommendations are made to the Secretary of Education following advice from
  a panel of consultants. All recommended selections are subject to review and
  final approval by the presidentially appointed J. William Fulbright Foreign
  Scholarship Board.
Deadlines:
