  Generally in late October of the year preceding the award to attend a seminar    
  overseas.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Applicants notified in mid March of selection for seminars.                      
Appeals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                            
Renewals:                                                                          
  None.                                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  None.                                                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  From 4 to 6 weeks.                                                               
Reports:                                                                           
  Individual curriculum projects and program evaluations from participants are     
  submitted.                                                                       
Audits:                                                                            
  None.                                                                            
Records:                                                                           
  Retained for one year.                                                           
Account Identification:

                                                                                   
  91-0201-0-1-502.

                                                                                   
Obligations:

                                                                                   
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,670,325; FY 08 $2,149,000; and FY 09 est $2,420,000.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $70,000 to $313,000; the      
                                                                                   
  average award is expected to be $317,000.

                                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                   
  In fiscal year 2007, approximately 144 participants were enrolled in nine

                                                                                   
  projects.

                                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Education Department General Administrative Regulations. Program                 
  announcements and related information are available from the Program Officer     
  for International Education, Department of Education.                            
                                                                                   
Regional or Local Office:

  None.                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  International Education Programs Service, Department of Education, 400           
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-5331. Contact Gail Holdren, E-         
  mail: gale.holdren@ed.gov, Telephone: (202) 502-7691.                            
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpssap/.                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  84.015, National Resource Centers Program for Foreign Language and Area          
  Studies or Foreign Language and International Studies Program and Foreign        
  Language and Area Studies Fellowship Program; 84.016, Undergraduate              
  International Studies and Foreign Language Programs; 84.017, International       
  Research and Studies; 84.019, Overseas Programs - Faculty Research Abroad;       
  84.021, Overseas Programs - Group Projects Abroad; 84.022, Overseas              
  Programs - Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad; 84.229, Language Resource      
  Centers.                                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Seminars have been conducted in Chile, China, Egypt, Hungary, Poland,            
  Malaysia, Mexico, and Zimbabwe. Annual language training programs are            
  offered in Japan for teachers of Japanese.                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Contact the Program Office for information.                                      
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
84.019 OVERSEAS PROGRAMS - FACULTY RESEARCH                                        
ABROAD                                                                             
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                 
  EDUCATION                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended, Section        
  102(b)(6), Public Law 87-256.                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To help universities and colleges strengthen their language and area studies     
  programs by enabling faculty members to conduct research abroad in order to      
  improve their skills in languages and their knowledge of the cultures on which   
  their academic interests focus.                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  Generally, awards will not be available for projects focusing primarily on       
  Western Europe or on countries where the United States has no diplomatic         
  representation. This program funds fellowships through institutions of higher    
  education to faculty members who propose to conduct research abroad in           
  modern foreign languages and area studies to improve their skill in languages    
  and knowledge of the culture of the people of these countries. Funds support:    
  travel expenses to and from the residence of the fellow and the country or

                                                                              11-08
  countries of research, a maintenance stipend for the fellow related to his or her
  academic year salary, and an allowance for research-related expenses overseas
  such as books and photocopying, tuition, affiliation fees, local travel, and other
  incidental expenses. Fellowships are adjusted for duplicating support.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Institutions of higher education may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Those benefiting will: (1a) Be a citizen or national of the United States; (1b) be
  a permanent resident of the United States; or (1c) provide evidence from the
  Immigration and Naturalization Service that he or she is in the United States for
  other than a temporary purpose with the intention of becoming a citizen or
  permanent resident; (2) be employed by an institution of higher education; (3)
  have been engaged in teaching relevant to his or her foreign language or area
  specialization for the 2 years immediately preceding the date of the award; (4a)
  have proposed research relevant to a modern foreign language or area
  specialization that cannot be conducted in the United States, or for which a
  foreign country or region provides superior research facilities; (4b) contribute to
  the development or improvement of the study of modern foreign languages or
  area studies in those fields needed for a full understanding of the area, regions,
  or countries in which the modern foreign languages are commonly used; (4c) not
  be doing dissertation research for a Ph.D.; and (5) possess adequate skills in the
  language or languages necessary to successfully carry out the project.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Eligible institutions will be responsible for accepting, screening, and forwarding
  through the Department of Education's Application Control Center to the
  International Education Programs Service (IEPS) those individual applications
  that meet the institution's technical and academic criteria and the program's
  eligibility requirements. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-102. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Faculty members may address requests for general information to the Advanced
  Training and Research Team, International Education Programs Service.
  Completed applications should be submitted directly to the faculty members
  employing institution, which will forward them to the Application Control
  Center. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-
  110.
Award Procedure:
  The IEPS will make the initial selection and recommendation of fellowship
  recipients with the advice of a panel of academic specialists in modern foreign
  language and area studies and comments by U.S. embassies and binational
  commissions in the proposed countries of research. The selections are subject to
  review and final approval by the J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship
  Board. The grant covering successful scholars is made to the institutions which
  employ the faculty members.
Deadlines:
  Generally the last week in October or the first week in November of the year
  preceding the year of research. Exact date is announced in the Federal Register.
  Contact the program office for more information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 200 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  From 3 to 12 months.
Reports:
  Award recipient: final program report submitted through the grantee institution
  no later than 90 days after the termination date of the award. Institution: fiscal
  year report.
Audits:
  Fiscal records of institutions subject to the Department audit at any time within
  5 years after close of the fiscal year in which expenditures are made.
Records:
  Records bearing on receipt and expenditure of grant funds must be made
  available for the Department inspection: (1) For 3 years after the close of the
  fiscal year in which expenditures are made if departmental audit has occurred by
  that time; (2) until audit or for 5 years following end of budget period in which
  grant expired, whichever is later; or (3) until resolution of outstanding audit
  questions.
Account Identification:
  91-0201-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,395,000; FY 08 est $1,600,000; and FY 09 est $1,395,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $20,000 to $100,000; the
                                                                                  1085
