  average award is expected to be $70,000.                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Twenty-three new grants are expected to be awarded in FY 2008.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  34 CFR 663, and the Education Department General Administrative                     
  Regulations.                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Advanced Training and Research Team, International Education Programs               
  Service, Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education, 400            
  Maryland Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20202-5331. Contact: Cynthia                   
  Dudzinski. E-mail: cynthia.dudzinski@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 502-7589.             
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpsfra/.                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  19.400, Educational Exchange_Graduate Students; 19.401, Educational                 
  Exchange_University Lecturers (Professors) and Research Scholars; 84.015,           
  National Resource Centers Program for Foreign Language and Area Studies or          
  Foreign Language and International Studies Program and Foreign Language and         
  Area Studies Fellowship Program; 84.016, Undergraduate International Studies        
  and Foreign Language Programs; 84.017, International Research and Studies;          
  84.018, Overseas Programs_Special Bilateral Projects; 84.021, Overseas              
  Programs - Group Projects Abroad; 84.022, Overseas Programs - Doctoral              
  Dissertation Research Abroad; 84.229, Language Resource Centers.                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  The Effects of the Zimbabwe Revolution on the Southern African Regional             
  System; Refugee Integration and Repatriation in Eastern Sudan; Women in             
  Politics in Ecuador; Health Problems and the Accessibility and Utilization of       
  Health Care in Guanacaste, Costa Rica; Worker Cooperatives in Japan and             
  Culture of Cooperation; Technology and Nationalism in Late Colonial                 
  Netherlands East Indies; Proficiency-Based Business Arabic; Nations,                
  Nationalism and Ethnicity: The Srilankan Model and its Transformations; Race,       
  Ethnicity, Social Class and Power in the Hispanic Caribbean: The Historical         
  Development and Contemporary Expression of Relations; The Americans in              
  Prague: A History of US-Czechoslovak Relations, 1918-1993; Central and East         
  European Countries and the European Union: Admission, Ternis, Impacts;              
  Turkey's Encounter with Nationalism and Modernity's Race, Class, and Gender         
  in Black Political Movements in South Africa, 1925- 1960: A Biography of Jose       
  Mpama.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The following selection criteria for this program are from 34 CFR 663.21 and        
  are as follows: The maximum score for all of the criteria, including the            
  competitive preference priority is 105 points. The maximum score for each           
  criterion is indicated in parentheses. Quality of proposed project (60 points): In  
  determining the quality of the research project proposed by the applicant, the      
  Secretary considers (1) the statement of the major hypotheses to be tested or       
  questions to be examined, and the description and justification of the research     
  methods to be used (10 points); (2) the relationship of the research to the         
  literature on the topic and to major theoretical issues in the field, and the       
  project's originality and importance in terms of the concerns of the discipline (10 
  points); (3) the preliminary research already completed or plans for research       
  prior to going overseas, and the kinds, quality and availability of data for the    
  research in the host country or countries (10 points); (4) the justification for    
  overseas field research and preparations to establish appropriate and sufficient    
  research contacts and affiliations abroad (10 points); (5) the applicant's plans to 
  share the results of the research in progress with scholars and officials of the    
  host country or countries and the American scholarly community (10 points);         
  and (6) the objectives of the project regarding the sponsoring institution's plans  
  for developing or strengthening, or both, curricula in modern foreign languages     
  and area studies (10 points). Qualifications of the applicant (40 points): In       
  determining the qualifications of the applicant, the Secretary considers (1) the    
                                                                                      
  overall strength of the applicant's academic record (teaching, research,

                                                                                      
  contributions, professional association activities (10 points); (2) the applicant's

                                                                                      
  excellence as a teacher or researcher, or both, in his or her area or areas of

                                                                                      
  specialization (10 points); (3) the applicant's proficiency in one or more of the

                                                                                      
  languages (other than English and the applicant's native language) of the country

                                                                                      
  or countries of research, and the specific measures to be taken to overcome any

                                                                                      
  anticipated language barriers (15 points); and (4) the applicant's ability to

                                                                                      
  conduct research in a foreign cultural context, as evidenced by the applicant's

                                                                                      
  previous overseas experience, or documentation provided by the sponsoring

                                                                                      
  institution, or both (5 points). Subject to change. Contact program officer for

                                                                                      
  further information.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
84.021 OVERSEAS PROGRAMS - GROUP PROJECTS                                             
ABROAD                                                                                
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                    
  EDUCATION                                                                           
1086                                                                            11-08

AUTHORIZATION:
  Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended, Public
  Law 87-256; Section 102(b)(6).
OBJECTIVES:
  To contribute to the development and improvement of the study of modern
  foreign languages and area studies in the United States by providing
  opportunities for teachers, faculty, and upperclassmen and/or graduate students
  to study, travel, and research in foreign countries.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The grant does not provide funds for project-related expenses within the United
  States. The grant funds may be used in the country of study for the following:
  maintenance stipend; round-trip international travel; project-related local travel;
  artifacts; books and other teaching materials; rent for instructional facilities; and
  clerical and professional services.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Institutions of higher education, State departments of education, private
  nonprofit educational organizations, and a consortium of institutions,
  departments, and organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  A participant must be: a citizen, or permanent resident of the United States,
  faculty member and teachers at all levels; a graduate or upperclassman who
  plans a teaching career in modern foreign languages or area studies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  An institution or organization interested in the program should plan and propose
  a group project that would significantly improve its program in foreign language
  and area studies. Specific guidelines for preparation of proposals as published in
  the Federal Register are available upon request from the International Education
  Programs Service (IEPS). The institution or organization must give assurance
  that the individuals it nominates to undertake the projects are appropriately
  qualified. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-
  110.
Award Procedure:
  With the advice of a panel of academic consultants and an assessment of the
  feasibility and suitability of each proposal by U.S. Embassies and Binational
  Commissions in the proposed countries of study, the IEPS will make initial
  selections, and preliminary recommendations of grant recipients to the Secretary.
  All recommended selections are subject to review and final approval by the
  presidentially appointed J. William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board.
Deadlines:
  Generally, in late October or of the year preceding the year of overseas activity.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 120 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  For short-term seminar, curriculum development, and group research or study
  projects ranging from 5 weeks, generally, to 12 months; up to 48 months for
  advanced intensive language training projects.
Reports:
  Terminal program reports and financial reports from the grantee.
Audits:
  All fiscal records subject to audit at any time within five years after close of the
  fiscal year in which expenditures are made.
Records:
  Documents bearing on receipt and expenditure of grant funds must be made
  available for inspection by the Department: (1) For three years after the close of
  the fiscal year in which expenditures are made if departmental audit has
  occurred by that time; (2) until audit or for five years following the end of
  budget period in which grant expired, whichever is later; or (3) until resolution
  of outstanding audit questions.
Account Identification:
  91-0201-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $3,877,534; FY 08 est $4,613,000; and FY 09 est $4,327,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $50,000 to $375,000; the
  average award is expected to be $105,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
