  Projects have had an effect on the curriculum through new and expanded             
  courses and faculty training in the use of new materials. In fiscal year 2008, 44  
  new grants are expected to be awarded.                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  34 CFR 664, and the Education Department General Administrative                    
  Regulations.                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  International Education Programs Service, Office of Postsecondary Education,       
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-            
  5331. Contact: Michelle Guilfoil. E-mail: michelle.guilfoil@ed.gov. Telephone:     
  (202) 502-7525.                                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpsgpa/.                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  19.400, Educational Exchange_Graduate Students; 19.401, Educational                
  Exchange_University Lecturers (Professors) and Research Scholars; 84.016,          
  Undergraduate International Studies and Foreign Language Programs; 84.017,         
  International Research and Studies; 84.018, Overseas Programs_Special              
  Bilateral Projects; 84.019, Overseas Programs - Faculty Research Abroad;           
  84.022, Overseas Programs - Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad; 84.229,         
  Language Resource Centers.                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  A School-University Collaborative Project for Curriculum Development About         
  the People's Republic of China: Choosing Modernization; Seminar on Cultural        
  Diversity and Development in Malaysia and Singapore - A curriculum                 
  development program for 15 Andrew and other college faculty and pre-college        
  teachers in Georgia; Seminar on Mexican Perspective of the North American          
  Free Trade Agreement; Russia: In search of Democracy and Economic Reform           
  A Curriculum Development Team Project; The Walls Come Tumbling Down: A             
  5-week travel-study seminar for 14 Maryland community college faculty to           
  study the Polish people, country, and culture; and a 5-week seminar for consortia  
  faculty on Post-Revolutionary Prospects in Ethiopia and Eritrea. In addition nine  
  advanced foreign language programs in Egypt, China, the Philippines, India,        
  Nigeria, Indonesia, Japan, Russia, and Tanzania involving the instruction of       
  Arabic, Chinese, Filipino, Hindi, Marathi, Bengoli, Hausa, Yoruba, Indonesian,     
  Japanese, Russian, and Kiswahili.                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The selection criteria for this program are from 34 CFR 664.31 and are as          
  follows: (a) Plan of operation (20 points), (b) quality of key personnel (10       
  points), (c) budget and cost effectiveness (10 points), (d) evaluation plan (20    
  points), (e) adequacy of resources (5 points), (f) potential impact of the project 
  on the development of the study of modern foreign languages and area studies in    
  American education (15 points), (g) relevance to the institution's educational     
  goals and its relationship to its program development in modern foreign            
  languages and area studies (5 points), (h) the extent to which direct experience   
  abroad is necessary to achieve the project's objectives and the effectiveness with 
  which relevant host country resources will be utilized (10 points), and (i) the    
  extent to which the proposed project addresses the competitive preference          
  priorities (10 points). Subject to change. Contact program officer for further     
  information.                                                                       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
84.022 OVERSEAS PROGRAMS - DOCTORAL                                                  
DISSERTATION RESEARCH ABROAD                                                         
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  EDUCATION                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Mutual Educational and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961, as amended, Section          
  102(b)(6), Public Law 87-256.                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide opportunities for graduate students to engage in full-time dissertation

                                                                                     
  research abroad in modern foreign language and area studies with the exception

                                                                                     
  of Western Europe. This program is designed to develop research knowledge

                                                                                     
  and capability in world areas not widely included in American curricula.

                                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Discretionary).

                                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds will be available to enable doctoral candidates to complete field research

                                                                                     
  for their dissertations. Generally awards will not be available for projects       
  focusing primarily on Western Europe or countries where the United States has      
  no diplomatic representation. Financial provisions include basic stipend           
  computed on the cost-of-living in the country where research is to be conducted;   
  cost of round trip jet economy air fare for award recipient only; baggage          
  allowance, if justified; dependents allowance for accompanying dependents          
  based on cost-of-living in host country; project allowance to be utilized for the  
  purchase of expendable materials, services, and supplies, tuition payments to      
  foreign institutions, and local travel expenditures; funds to secure health and    
                                                                               11-08 
  accident insurance.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Institutions of higher education may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Candidate for Doctoral Dissertation Research Abroad Fellowship must: (1a) Be
  a citizen or national of the United States; (1b) be a permanent resident of the
  United States; or (1c) provide evidence from the Immigration and Naturalization
  Service that he or she is in the United States for other than a temporary purpose
  with the intention of becoming a citizen or permanent resident; (2) be a graduate
  student in good standing at an institution of higher education who, when the
  fellowship period begins, has been admitted to candidacy in a doctoral degree
  program in modern foreign languages and area studies at that institution; (3)
  plan a teaching career in the United States upon graduation; (4) possess
  adequate skills in the foreign language(s) necessary to carry out the dissertation
  research project.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The graduate dean of a college or university or his or her representative will be
  responsible for accepting, screening, and forwarding through the Department of
  Education's Application Control Center to the Advanced Training and Research
  Team those individual applications which meet the institution's technical and
  academic criteria and the program's eligibility requirements. Candidates for
  dissertation research fellowships apply directly to the institutions at which they
  are enrolled in a Ph.D. program, not to the Department of Education. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Institutions should request application materials from the Advanced Training
  and Research Team. Students should address requests for application forms to
  the office of the graduate dean or his or her representative at the graduate
  schools at which they are enrolled in a Ph.D. program. This program is excluded
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The Advanced Training and Research Team will make initial selection and
  recommendation of fellowship recipients with the advice of a panel of specialists
  in foreign language and area studies and comments by U.S. embassies and
  binational commissions in the proposed countries of research. Selections are
  subjebject to review and final approval by the presidentially appointed J.
  William Fulbright Foreign Scholarship Board. The grant covering successful
  graduate students is made to the applicant, i.e., institutions of higher education.
Deadlines:
  Generally, the last week in October or first week in November of the year
  preceding the year of research. Exact date is announced in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 200 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made for at least 6 but not more than 12 months.
Reports:
  Fellows: Terminal reports through the grantee institution no later than 90 days
  after the termination date of the award. Institutions: fiscal reports.
Audits:
  Fiscal records of institutions subject to Education Department audit at any time
  within 5 years after close of the fiscal year in which expenditures are made.
Records:
  Records bearing on receipt and expenditure of funds to be made available for
  inspection by the Department for 3 years after close of fiscal year in which
  expenditures are made if departmental audit has occurred by that time, until
  audit or for five years following the end of the budget period in which the grant
  expired (whichever is later) or until resolution of any outstanding audit
  questions.
Account Identification:
  91-0201-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,444,896; FY 08 est $4,666,000; and FY 09 est $4,721,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $15,000 to $60,000 for
  fellowships; the average fellowship is expected to be $29,330.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2008, 150 new fellowships are expected to be awarded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Final regulations published in 34 CFR 662, and in the Education Department
  General Administrative Regulations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
                                                                                  1087
