Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  International Education Programs Service, Office of Postsecondary Education,        
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC                  
  20202-5331. Contact: Sara Starke. E-mail: Sara.Starke@ed.gov. Telephone:            
  (202) 502-7688.                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpsddrap/.                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  19.400, Educational Exchange_Graduate Students; 19.401, Educational                 
  Exchange_University Lecturers (Professors) and Research Scholars; 84.015,           
  National Resource Centers Program for Foreign Language and Area Studies or          
  Foreign Language and International Studies Program and Foreign Language and         
  Area Studies Fellowship Program; 84.016, Undergraduate International Studies        
  and Foreign Language Programs; 84.017, International Research and Studies;          
  84.018, Overseas Programs_Special Bilateral Projects; 84.019, Overseas              
  Programs - Faculty Research Abroad; 84.021, Overseas Programs - Group               
  Projects Abroad; 84.229, Language Resource Centers.                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Imagined Democracies, Nocturnal Communities: The Production of Political            
  Space in Cote d'lvoire; Strategies for Survival: Women, Power, and HIV Risk in      
  Uganda; Spirit Possession in Northern Brazil; The Exus of Umbanda Forest            
  Conservation and Common Property Management in Oaxaca, Mexico;                      
  Continuity and Change: Cooperatives in Contemporary Rural China; Strangers          
  in their Homeland: The Ethnic Adaptation of Japanese-Brazilian Return               
  Migrants and the Japanese Sociopolitical Response Towards Co-management;            
  Conservation, Indigenous Communities and the Philippine State Disease; Social       
  Change and Gender Among the Huli of Papua New Guinea; Language and                  
  Identity in Ukraine: The Politics of Interaction Propaganda vs. "Stalinization" of  
  the Soviet Press, 1922-1930; Commemoration of Nation and Class in Two               
  Palestinian Villages; Educating Ethnicity: Cypriot Conflict and the Revision of     
  History; Education and Youth Culture in Kerala, South India, Trekking Tourism,      
  Traditionalism and Development in a Nepali Village; Women's Political NGOs          
  in the Emerging Democracy of Ghana; and Community Building among                    
  Indonesian Transmigrants: The Challenges of Ecological Sustainability and           
  Social Harmony.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The selection criteria for this program are from 34 CFR 662.21 and are listed in    
  the following paragraphs. The maximum score for all of the criteria, including      
  the competitive preference priority, is 105 points. The maximum score for each      
  criterion is indicated in parentheses. Quality of proposed project (60 points): In  
  determining the quality of the research project proposed by the applicant, the      
  Secretary considers: (1) The statement of the major hypotheses to be tested or      
  questions to be examined, and the description and justification of the research     
  methods to be used (10 points); (2) the relationship of the research to the         
  literature on the topic and to major theoretical issues in the field, and the       
  project's originality and importance in terms of the concerns of the discipline (10 
  points); (3) the preliminary research already completed in the United States and    
  overseas or plans for such research prior to going overseas, and the kinds,         
  quality and availability of data for the research in the host country or countries  
  (10 points); (4) the justification for overseas field research and preparations to  
  establish appropriate and sufficient research contacts and affiliations abroad (10  
  points); (5) the applicant's plans to share the results of the research in progress 
  and a copy of the dissertation with scholars and officials of the host country or   
  countries (10 points); and (6) the guidance and supervision of the dissertation     
  advisor or committee at all stages of the project, including guidance in            
  developing the project, understanding research conditions abroad, and               
  acquainting the applicant with research in the field (10 points). Qualifications    
  of the applicant (40 points): In determining the qualifications of the applicant,   
  the Secretary considers (1) the overall strength of the applicant's graduate        
  academic record (10 points); (2) the extent to which the applicant's academic       
  record demonstrates strength in area studies relevant to the proposed project (10   
  points); (3) the applicant's proficiency in one or more of the languages (other     
  than English and the applicant's native language) of the country or countries of    
  research, and the specific measures to be taken to overcome any anticipated         
  language barriers (15 points); and (4) the applicant's ability to conduct research  
  in a foreign cultural context, as evidenced by the applicant's references or        
  previous overseas experience, or both (5 points). Subject to change. Contact        
  program officer for further information.                                            
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
84.027 SPECIAL EDUCATION-GRANTS TO STATES                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,                            
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), Part B, Sections 611-618,       
  as amended, 20 U.S.C. 1411-1418.                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide grants to States to assist them in providing a free appropriate public   
  education to all children with disabilities.                                        


1088                                                                            11-08

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are used by State and local educational agencies, in accordance with the
  IDEA, to help provide the special education and related services needed to make
  a free appropriate public education available to all eligible children and, in some
  cases, early intervening services.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State educational agencies in the 50 States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico,
  American Samoa, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam and
  Virgin Islands, the Department of the Interior, and freely associated States.
  Local educational agencies apply to their State educational agency for subgrants.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Children with disabilities will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The designated plan review agencies must be given an opportunity to review the
  State's policies and procedures. Costs will be determined in accordance with
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  States must meet the conditions of Section 612 of the Individuals with
  Disabilities Education Act. Public hearings must be held prior to a State's
  adoption of policies and procedures to comply with that section. This program
  is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review. The standard application forms as furnished by the
  Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this
  program.
Application Procedure:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110. States
  are eligible to receive funds under this program if the State establishes eligibility
  for funds under Section 612 of Part B of the IDEA. Local education agencies
  establish eligibility by meeting local application eligibility requirements of
  Section 613 of Part B of the IDEA.
Award Procedure:
  Once the State application has been approved, a grant award is forwarded to the
  State department of education. Notification of the award is made to Chief State
  School Officer.
Deadlines:
  The submission date for State applications is April 1 to expedite funding, but
  plans or amendments are accepted throughout the fiscal year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Within 90 days.
Appeals:
  The Department must give a State educational agency an opportunity for a
  hearing before taking any action involving the proposed disapproval of a State
  plan and the withholding of payments. If a State disagrees with a final action, it
  may, within 60 days after notice of such action, file a petition for review of that
  action with the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. A State may also engage in a
  hearing with the Department if the State disagrees with the action taken
  regarding a request for a waiver of the Part B supplementing and supplanting
  requirements.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funds are awarded based on a statutory formula. In general, subject to minimum
  and maximum funding requirements, if the funds available to States increase
  from one year to the next, each of the states first received what it received in
  1999. Eighty-five percent of the remaining funds are distributed based on the
  relative number of children with disabilities in the age range for which States
  mandate services; 15 percent of the remaining funds are distributed based on the
  ralative numbers of those children living in poverty. If the amount available to
  these entities decreases from one year to the next, each entity receives what it did
  in 1999. Remaining funds are distributed in proportion to the increased these
  entities received between 1999 and the present year. Most of the funds must be
  distributed to local education agencies directly serving children. States may
  retain the remaining funds for state-level activities including administration of,
  support of, and direct services to children with disabilities. There are non-
  supplanting and excess cost requirements. Contact the program office for further
  details.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are issued each fiscal year. The Federal obligation period is a 15-month
  period from July 1 through September 30. States and local education agencies
  have an additional 12-month period to obligate funds they receive.
Reports:
  Annual data report and performance reports are submitted to the Department of
  Education from the State departments of education.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
