  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and NonProfit Organizations,        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  As required by EDGAR for State administered programs (34 CFR 76.730-731).           
  Also, all records supporting claims for Federal funds or relating to the            
  accountability of the grantee for the expenditure of such funds must be             
  accessible for administrative review.                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-0300-0-1-501.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $10,782,961,000; FY 08 est $10,947,511,571; and FY 09 est            
  $11,284,511,000. (Includes $15,000,000 in each year for funding CFDA 373.)          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  For 2008, the range of awards to States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto       
  Rico, is $929,040 to $1,165,972,611.                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Approximately 6.8 million children with disabilities are expected to be served by   
  this program for 2008.                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Program regulations are at 34 CFR 300.                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of the Assistant Secretary for Special Education Programs, Department        
  of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact:             
  Ruth Ryder. E-mail: Ruth.Ryer@ed.gov Telephone: (202) 245-7629.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/osers/osep/index.html.

                                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                      
  84.173, Special Education_Preschool Grants; 84.181, Special Education-Grants

                                                                                      
  for Infants and Families; 84.323, Special Education - State Personnel

                                                                                      
  Development; 84.324, Research in Special Education; 84.326, Special

                                                                                      
  Education_Technical Assistance and Dissemination to Improve Services and

                                                                                      
  Results for Children with Disabilities; 84.327, Special Education_Technology

                                                                                      
  and Media Services for Individuals with Disabilities; 84.328, Special

                                                                                      
  Education_Parent Information Centers; 84.329, Special Education_Studies and

                                                                                      
  Evaluations; 84.373, Special Education_Technical Assistance on State Data

                                                                                      
  Collection.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  Federal funds are combined with State and local funds to provide free

                                                                                      
  appropriate public education to children with disabilities. This includes special

                                                                                      
  education and related services. Funds are used for salaries of teachers and other

                                                                                      
  personnel, education materials, related services--such as special transportation or

                                                                                      
  occupational therapy that allow children with disabilities to access education

                                                                                      
  services--and other education-related needs.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  States and other eligible entities qualify for funding based upon applications

                                                                                      
  approved under IDEA, Section 612.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
84.031 HIGHER EDUCATION-INSTITUTIONAL AID                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                    
  EDUCATION                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title III and Title V, as amended. Higher             
  Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part J, Section 499A, as amended by section        
  802 of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (CCRAA) of 2007.                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To help eligible colleges and universities to strengthen their management and       
  fiscal operations and to assist such institutions to plan, develop, or implement    
  activities including endowment building that promise to strengthen the academic     
  quality of their institutions.                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Discretionary); Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Eligible institutions may apply under Part A or B of Title III. Part A includes     
  Strengthening Institutions Program (SIP), the American Indian Tribally              
  Controlled Colleges and Universities (TCCUs), and Alaska Native and Native          
  Hawaiian serving (ANNH) institutions. Part B includes the Historically Black        
  Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) program and the Historically Black                
  Graduate Institutions (HBGI) program . Part A provides funds to eligible            
  institutions to plan, develop, and implement activities for development of          
  faculty, funds, and administrative management, and improvement of academic          
  programs, acquisition of equipment for use in strengthening academic programs       
  and institutional management, and joint use of facilities such as libraries,        
                                                                                      


                                                                                11-08 
  laboratories, and student services. Part B provides funds to undergraduate
  HBCUs and graduate HBGIs. Funds may be used for purchase, rental, or lease of
  scientific equipment; construction, maintenance, renovation, improvement in
  classroom, library and other instructional facilities; support of faculty exchanges
  and fellowships; academic instruction in disciplines in which Blacks are
  underrepresented, purchase of library books, periodicals, and other educational
  materials; tutoring, counseling, and student services; funds and administrative
  management; acquisition of equipment for use in funds management;
  endowment funds; and joint use of facilities. Title V Developing Hispanic
  Serving Institutions (HSIs) program provides funds to eligible HSIs for activities
  such as: faculty development; funds and administrative management;
  development and improvement of academic programs; endowment funds;
  curriculum development; scientific or laboratory equipment for teaching;
  renovation of instructional facilities; joint use of facilities; academic tutoring;
  counseling programs; and student support services. The CCRAA authorizes
  funds for Hispanic Serving Institutions STEM and Articulation Programs to
  support the kinds of activities being supported under the existing Title V
  program, except that priority is given for applications that propose to increase
  the number of Hispanic and other low income students attaining degrees in
  fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) and to
  applications that propose to develop model transfer and articulation agreements
  between the 2-year and 4-year HSIs in such fields. Funds provided for Title III
  and Title V may not be used for activities other than those in an approved
  application, activities that are inconsistent with any applicable State plan of
  higher education or State plan for desegregation, a school or department of
  divinity or any religious worship or sectarian activity; general operating and
  maintenance expenses; indirect costs; or supplanting of other funds available to
  the institution. These programs are subject to non-supplanting requirements and
  must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 76.563.
  For assistance call the Office of Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on
  (202) 708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An institution of higher education that qualifies as eligible using criteria as
  specified in the regulations. Under Part A, specific and basic requirements as
  stated in the program regulations must be met. Eligible applicants include
  institutions that have: (1) A low average per FTE educational and general
  expenditure; (2) a substantial percentage of students having Pell Grants or other
  Federal need-based financial aid. However, a waiver of the low educational and
  general expenditure requirement and the needy student enrollment requirement
  may be granted to institutions meeting the criteria specified in the existing
  regulations. Under Part B HBCUs, certain historically Black institutions that
  were established prior to 1964, whose principal mission was, and is, the
  education of Black Americans are eligible. A listing of those institutions is
  published in program regulations; these HBCUs are also eligible under the
  Endowment Challenge Grant Program. Institutions eligible for HBGI program
  grants are specified in Title III Section 326(e)(1) of the HEA. Under the Title V
  HSIs program, an HSI is defined as an institution that has an enrollment of
  undergraduate full-time equivalent students that is at least 25 percent.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Applicant institutions of higher education, including those in the territories and
  possessions that meet statutory eligibility requirements will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Institutions must document that they are accredited a nationally recognized
  accrediting agency or that they are making satisfactory progress toward such
  accreditation. A 4-year institution must have authority to award a bachelor's
  degree. A 2-year institution must offer a program acceptable for full credit
  towards a bachelor's degree, or a two year program in engineering, mathematics,
  or the physical or biological sciences designed to prepare the student to work as
  a technician at a semiprofessional level. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applications for funding are available from the program office. Application
  deadlines are published in the Federal Register.
Award Procedure:
  Title III Part A applications and Title V Developing HSIs program applications
  are evaluated by external reviewers who are experts in postsecondary education.
  The Department makes final awards based primarily on the scores assigned to
  the applications by the external reviewers and the recommendations submitted
  by the staff of Institutional Development and Undergraduate Education Service,
  Office of Postsecondary Education.
Deadlines:
  Deadline dates for each program are published in the Federal Register for both
  eligibility and project grants.
                                                                                  1089
