Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  About six months.                                                                  
Appeals:

  None.

Renewals:

                                                                                     
  Under the Strengthening Institutions Program, priority is given to applicants      
  who are not already receiving a grant. Institutions that received a 5-year         
  development grant are not eligible to receive an additional grant until 2 years    
  after the date on which the 5-year terminates. After fulfilling the wait-out       
  requirement, institutions applying for another grant under the Strengthening       
  Institutions Programs must reapply for eligibility.                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Under the Strengthening Institutions Program, Tribally Controlled Colleges and     
  Universities, Historically Black Colleges and Universities, and Hispanic Serving   
  Institutions, institutions of higher education may use no more than 20 percent of  
  grant funds to establish or increase an institution's endowment fund. The          
  endowment funds must be matched at a rate of one non-Federal dollar for each       
  Federal dollar. Under the HBGIs program, eligible institutions that have project   
  grants over $1,000,000 must match the entire Federal share on a dollar-for-dollar  
  basis.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Under the Strengthening Institutions Program, TCCUs, ANNH, and HSIs,               
  planning grants are for a period of up to 1 year, development grants are for a     
  period of 5 years.                                                                 
Reports:                                                                             
  As required by the Special Grant Terms and Conditions.                             
Audits:                                                                              
  Subject to a Federal audit any time during the term of the grant and within a      
  period of 3 years after the termination of Federal support.                        
Records:                                                                             
  Must be retained for 5 years after the end of the fiscal year during which the     
  expenditures were made or until the grantee is notified that the records are no    
  longer needed.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0201-0-1-502.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 SIP $79,534,620; TCCUs $23,569,920; TCCUs (CCRAA) $0;               
  ANNH $11,785,000; ANNH (CCRAA) $0; HBCUs $238,095,000; HBCUs                       
  (CCRAA) $0; HBGIs $57,915,000; HSIs $94,914,270; HSIs STEM $0; FY 08               
  est SIP $78,145,523; TCCUs $23,158,232; TCCUs (CCRAA) $30,000,000;                 
  ANNH $11,579,116; ANNH (CCRAA) $15,000,000; HBCUs $238,094,530;                    
  HBCUs (CCRAA) $85,000,000; HBGIs $56,903,225; HSIs $93,255,852; HSIs               
  STEM $100,000,000; and FY 09 est SIP $78,145,523; TCCUs $0; TCCUs                  
  (CCRAA) $30,000,000; ANNH $0; ANNH (CCRAA) $15,000,000; HBCUs                      
  $153,095,000; HBCUs (CCRAA) $85,000,000; HBGIs $56,903,225; HSIs                   
  $74,442,000; HSIs STEM $100,000,000.                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Not applicable because the range and average varies greatly by competition.        
  Under the HBCU Program, grants may not be less than $500,000 and range             
  according to formula allotments.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Approximately 800 grants are expected to be made in fiscal year 2008 in the        
  Title III, Title V, and CCRAA minority serving institutions programs.              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  34 CFR 607, 608, 609, 628, the Education Department General Administrative         
  Regulations, and the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (P.L. 110-84).          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Department of Education, Office of Postsecondary Education, Office of Higher       
  Education Programs, 1990 K St., N.W. Washington, DC 20006-8500. Contact:           
  James Laws Telephone: 202-502-7719. E-mail: james.laws@ed.gov.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ope/idues.                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  84.033, Federal Work-Study Program.                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                     
  The Education Department awarded grants: (1) To develop a management

                                                                                     
  information system at the applicant institution; (2) to develop curriculum; (3) to

                                                                                     
  develop management capabilities among administrators; (4) to develop

                                                                                     
  computer-assisted instruction; and (5) to develop funds management procedures.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  (a) Under Title III, Title V and CCRAA programs, the Department appoints

                                                                                     
  review panels to provide comments and recommend ratings for the applications.

                                                                                     
  The reviewers numerically rate each application assigned and provide the

                                                                                     
  Secretary with comments on each. Criteria are published in the Federal Register

                                                                                     
  along with the point value for each criterion. (b)Under HBCUs and HBGIs,

                                                                                     
  funds are allocated based on a statute-driven formula. To be eligible to receive a

                                                                                     
  grant under the Strengthening HBCUs program, an institution must be

                                                                                     
  designated by the Secretary of Education as a Historically Black College or

                                                                                     


1090                                                                           11-08

  University. HBGIs receiving discretionary grants are specified in the program
  statute.
84.032 FEDERAL FAMILY EDUCATION LOANS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL STUDENT AID, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part B, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage lenders such as banks, credit unions, savings and loan
  associations, pension funds, insurance companies, and schools to make loans to
  vocational, undergraduate, and graduate students enrolled at eligible
  postsecondary institutions to help pay for educational expenses. The loans are
  insured by a State or private nonprofit guaranty agency and reinsured by the
  Federal government.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To help defray costs of education at a participating school. Repayment on
  Federal Stafford Loans begins six months after the student ceases to carry at
  least one-half the normal full-time academic workload. Repayment of principal
  and interest on PLUS Loans generally begins within 60 days of disbursement of
  the last installment, repayment of a consolidation loan begins within 60 days
  after the proceeds of the loan have been used to discharge the liability of the
  borrower on the loans selected for consolidation. Deferments and forbearance of
  payment may be granted for certain authorized periods.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Under the Federal Stafford Loan Program, any U.S. citizen, national, or person
  in the United States for other than a temporary purpose, who is enrolled or
  accepted for enrollment in a degree or certificate program on at least a half-time
  basis as an undergraduate, graduate, or professional student at a participating
  postsecondary school may apply. An otherwise eligible student is eligible for
  loans during a single 12-month period in which the student is enrolled in a non-
  degree/non-certificate course of study that the school has determined is
  necessary in order for the student to enroll in a program leading to a degree or
  certificate. Under the Federal PLUS Loan program, parents may borrow for
  dependent students, and beginning July 1, 2006, graduate students may borrow
  to support their own education. Under the Federal Unsubsidized Stafford Loan
  program, graduate or professional students, and independent undergraduate
  students may apply; under certain circumstances, a dependent undergraduate
  student may apply for an Federal Unsubsidized Stafford Loan. Students who are
  enrolled at an eligible institution on at least a half time basis in a program that is
  required by a State for elementary or secondary teacher certification are also
  eligible for Federal Family Education Loan Program (FFEL) aid (Stafford,
  Unsubsidized Stafford and PLUS). Under the Federal Consolidation Loan
  program, a borrower may have his or her Stafford, Unsubsidized Stafford,
  PLUS, Perkins (formerly NDSL), and Health Professions Student loans
  consolidated, provided that the borrower is in a grace period or repayment status
  on all loans being consolidated, or is a delinquent or defaulted borrower who
  will reenter repayment through consolidation, and does not have another
  application for a consolidation loan pending. Only U.S., citizens or nationals
  may receive a loan to attend eligible foreign postsecondary schools. A student
  presently enrolled at a participating institution must maintain satisfactory
  academic progress in the course of study he/she is pursuing. Also, the borrower
  may not owe a refund on any Title IV grant or be in default on any Title IV loan
  received for attendance at any school. The borrower must also file a statement
  of registration compliance (Selective Service). To receive a subsidized Stafford
  Loan, all borrowers must undergo a financial need analysis to determine
  eligibility for Federal interest and special allowance benefits. Unsubsidized
  Federal Stafford, PLUS, or Consolidation loans are non-need based programs. A
  Stafford Loan applicant who is an undergraduate student who attends a school
  that participates in the Pell Grant program must receive a determination of his or
  her Pell Grant eligibility or ineligibility before the school may certify an
  application for a loan. If the applicant is determined to be eligible for a Pell
  Grant, the applicant must apply for a Pell Grant for the enrollment period before
  the institution may certify an application for a FFEL loan. An Unsubsidized
  Stafford Loan applicant must also receive a determination of need for a loan
  under the Stafford Loan program and, if eligible, must apply for a Stafford Loan
  prior to the school's certification of the Unsubsidized Stafford Loan application.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Generally, for the Federal Stafford Loan, Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, and PLUS
  Loan programs, any U.S. citizen, national, or person in the United States for
  other than a temporary purpose, who is enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a
  degree or certificate program on at least a half-time basis as an undergraduate,
  graduate, professional, or vocational student at a participating postsecondary
  school benefits. If a student is enrolled in a non-degree/noncertificate course of
  study, the student may be eligible for Stafford or Unsubsidized Stafford loans for
  one consecutive twelve-month period, if the school determines that the course of
  study is necessary in order for the student to enroll in a program leading to a
