  degree or certificate. A student enrolled on at least a half-time basis in a program
  required by a State for a professional credential or certificate for employment as  
  a teacher in an elementary or secondary school located in that State is eligible to 
  receive aid under the Stafford Loan, Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, and PLUS           
  Loan programs. Consolidation Loan borrowers need not be enrolled in any             
  school to be eligible.                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  For the Federal Stafford Loan, Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, and PLUS Loan            
  programs, the student will need certification of eligibility from the school, and   
  may be required to supply documentation to verify the accuracy of data used in      
  the Stafford Loan need analysis. This program is excluded from coverage under       
  OMB Circular No. A-87.                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Information regarding application procedures may be obtained from lenders,          
  schools, the Department of Education, States, or guaranty agencies. This            
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This                
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications for the Federal Stafford Loan, Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, and         
  PLUS Loan programs are obtained from a participating lender, guaranty agency,       
  or school. Consolidation Loan applications are obtained from lenders. The           
  borrower completes his or her portion of a Stafford, Unsubsidized Stafford, or      
  PLUS loan application and submits it to the school. The school must certify the     
  student meets eligibility requirements for the loan, including a certification that 
  the student is enrolled, or accepted for enrollment as at least a half-time student,
  and that the student is making satisfactory progress. The school must also certify  
  the type and amount of loan the student is eligible to receive. The lender then     
  completes its portion of the application and forwards it to the guarantor for       
  commitment. In some States, the guarantor issues the notice of guarantee prior      
  to sending the application to the lender. This program is excluded from coverage    
  under OMB Circular No. A-110.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  If the lender agrees to make the loan, the application is forwarded to the          
  guarantor for insurance. The lender disburses the proceeds of a Stafford,           
  Unsubsidized Stafford, or PLUS loan to the school or, if the student is attending   
  a foreign school, directly to the borrower. Consolidation Loan proceeds are         
  disbursed directly to the holders of the loans selected for consolidation. In most  
  cases, a loan must be disbursed in more than one installment over the length of     
  the period of enrollment for which the loan was intended, based on a                
  disbursement schedule provided to the lender by the school on behalf of the         
                                                                                      
  borrower. This multiple disbursement requirement does not apply to

                                                                                      
  Consolidation Loans. The borrower is required to pay an insurance premium of

                                                                                      
  one percent of the principal amount of a subsidized Stafford Loan, Unsubsidized

                                                                                      
  Stafford Loan, or PLUS Loan. The charging of the insurance premium and the

                                                                                      
  amount is determined by the guarantor. In addition, for a Stafford, Unsubsidized

                                                                                      
  Stafford, or PLUS loan, the borrower is required to pay a three percent

                                                                                      
  "origination fee" (on loans disbursed on or after July 1, 1994) which is used to

                                                                                      
  help defray program costs. All of these fees are normally deducted

                                                                                      
  proportionately from each disbursement of the loan proceeds. Under the Higher

                                                                                      
  Education Reconciliation Act, these fees would be reduced to 2 percent on July

                                                                                      
  1, 2006; 1.5 percent on July 1, 2007; 1 percent on July 1, 2008; and 0.5 percent

  on July 1, 2009. The fees would be eliminated as of July 1, 2010.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Varies.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                      
  Applicants may apply for a loan for any year of school. The College Cost

                                                                                      
  Reduction and access Act (CCRAA) of 2007 authorized phased reductions to

                                                                                      
  the interest rates for Subsidized Stafford loans borrowed by undergraduates with

                                                                                      
  the rate cut in half to 3.4 percent on July 1, 2011. Repayment generally is made

                                                                                      
  over a period of 10 years for Federal Stafford, and PLUS Loans, excluding

                                                                                      
  periods of authorized deferment and forbearance, but extended repayment plans

                                                                                      
  are available. The repayment period for a Consolidation Loan depends on the

                                                                                      
  amount of the loan and may be up to 30 years, exclusive of periods of authorized

                                                                                      
  deferment and forbearance. CCRAA created a new income-based repayment

                                                                                      
  plan for those borrowers meting a standard of "partial financial hardship" based

                                                                                      
  on their annual repayment amount in relation to their adjusted gross income.

                                                                                      
  Generally a borrower would not have to repay on a monthly basis more than 15

                                                                                      
  percent of their discretionary income. Any outstanding balance would be

                                                                                      
  forgiven after 25 years of repayment in the income-based repayment option.

                                                                                      
Reports:

                                                                                      
  Lenders submit quarterly reports of loans outstanding in order to receive interest

                                                                                      
  benefits and special allowance payments. Guaranty agencies submit reports in

                                                                                      
                                                                                 11-08
  order to receive reinsurance and administrative payments. Additional
  operational reports are required for specific purposes.
Audits:
  Lenders, schools (except foreign schools), and guaranty agencies are subject to
  examination and program review by the Department of Education. Generally,
  program reviews are performed on a fiscal year basis. Participating schools
  must have an independent audit of all Stafford Loan Program transactions at
  least annually. Guaranty agencies must have independent financial and
  compliance audits annually. Guaranty agencies must conduct annual reviews of
  the ten largest loan volume lenders in their areas as well as schools with default
  rates above 20 percent that do not have a default management plan approved by
  the Secretary.
Records:
  Lenders must maintain records to support and identify loan transactions, interest
  billings, and/or special allowance. Guaranty agencies must maintain complete
  records to support and identify their activities. Federal regulations specify
  administrative and fiscal records required to be maintained by schools.
Account Identification:
  91-4251-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  Aid available (Loan volume net of consolidations) FY 07 $51,320,000,000; FY
  08 est $56,242,000,000; and FY 09 est $59,308,000,000. FFEL Consolidation
  volume: FY 07 $46,941,000,000; FY 08 est $33,940,000,000; and FY 09 est
  $38,863,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Varies depending on the type of loan.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Over 13.1 million loans were made in fiscal year 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  34 CFR 682.
Regional or Local Office:
  See list of Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Each State
  with an operating guaranty agency maintains an office in its respective State. A
  list of guaranty agency addresses is available from the address below.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education, Washington, DC
  20202. Telephone: (800) 433-3243.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ifap.ed.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  64.117, Survivors and Dependents Educational Assistance; 84.007, Federal
  Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants; 84.033, Federal Work-Study
  Program; 84.038, Federal Perkins Loan Program_Federal Capital Contributions;
  84.042, TRIO_Student Support Services; 84.044, TRIO_Talent Search; 84.047,
  TRIO_Upward Bound; 84.063, Federal Pell Grant Program; 84.066,
  TRIO_Educational Opportunity Centers; 84.069, Leveraging Educational
  Assistance Partnership.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
84.033 FEDERAL WORK-STUDY PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL STUDENT AID, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title IV, Part C; 42 U.S.C. 2751-
  2756a.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide part-time employment to eligible postsecondary students to help meet
  educational expenses and encourage students receiving program assistance to
  participate in community service activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  ++The Federal share of compensation paid to students does not exceed 75
  percent for work on campus, or work in a public agency or private nonprofit
  organization, unless waived by the Secretary. The Federal share of
  compensation paid to students does not exceed 50 percent for jobs with a
  private-for-profit organization. No more than 25 percent of an institution's work-
  study allocation may be used for private-for-profit organizations. If it provides
  FWS employment to its students in that year, an institution is entitled to an
  administrative cost allowance for an award year of 5 percent of the first
  $2,750,000 of its program expenditures, plus up to 4 percent for expenditures
  greater than $2,750,000 but less than $5,500,000 plus up to 3 percent of
  expenditures in excess of $5,500,000. Effective with the 1994-95 award year, an
  institution is required to use at least 5 percent of its total FWS allocation to pay
  the Federal share of wages to students employed in community service jobs
  unless it receives a waiver.
Applicant Eligibility:
                                                                                   1091
