  Higher education institutions (public, private nonprofit, postsecondary            
  vocational, and proprietary) meeting eligibility requirements may apply.           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Undergraduate, graduate, or professional students enrolled or accepted for         
  enrollment as regular students; are maintaining satisfactory academic progress in  
  accordance with the standards and practices of the institution, have financial     
  need, do not owe a refund on a Title IV grant, are not in default on a Title IV    
  loan, file a statement of educational purpose, file a statement of registration    
  compliance (Selective Service) and meet citizen/resident requirements may          
  benefit.                                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Institutions must document their eligibility and students must demonstrate         
  financial need. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular          
  No. A-87.                                                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Representatives of the appropriate ED Regional Office are available for            
  consultation. See listing of ED Regional Offices in Appendix IV of the Catalog.    
  Students should contact the institution(s) they attend or plan to attend. This     
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is                
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.                               
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Participating institutions submit a Fiscal Operations Report/Application to        
  Participate in Federal Student Financial Aid programs (ED Form 646-1) which        
  is mailed to institutions of postsecondary education each summer by the Office     
  of Federal Student Aide. Assistance. New institutions submit only the

  application form. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No.    
  A-110.

Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Office of Student Financial Aid determines final awards and notifies           
  participating institutions.                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Specified on the application (usually October 1).                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Notices of tentative awards sent by February 1 and final award notifications sent  
  by April 1.                                                                        
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Annual.                                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Under the funding formula, funds are distributed to institutions, first, on the    
  basis of the institution's base guarantee plus the pro rata share received during  
  the 1999-2000 award year under the FWS Program and, then, on the basis of the      
  aggregate need of the eligible students in attendance. Employers of FWS            
  recipients must contribute 25 percent of the funding, (except in the case of       
  private, for-profit organizations, which must match 50 percent) and in the case    
  of established criteria for which the matching requirement is waived.              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Funds are awarded for use by participating institutions for one award year at a    
  time following the year of application.                                            
Reports:                                                                             
  A single combined Fiscal Operations Report/Application form for Federal            
  Perkins Loans, FSEOG, and FWS (DE 646-1) is submitted by each institution at       
  the close of each award year (June 30).                                            
Audits:                                                                              
  Institutions must have a nonfederal audit done on at least an annual basis at its  
  own expense. Audits may also be performed at Government expense by the             
  Department of Education's Office of the Inspector General as often as its time     
  schedule will allow or when deemed necessary by the Secretary.                     
Records:                                                                             
  All records pertaining to activities of a given fiscal year must be retained for a 
  period of three years following the institution's submission of its Fiscal         
  Operations Report for an award year or until final resolution of an applicable     
  audit, whichever is later.                                                         
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0200-0-1-502.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Federal share) FY 07 $980,354,000; FY 08 est $980,492,000; and FY 09 est          
  $980,492,000.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  The average award was $1,478.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Institutions will award $1,171,395 to about 792,554 recipients.                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  34 CFR 675. Notification to Members of Congress, list of grantees, published       
  annually or as required, no charge; Student Guide, no charge; Student Financial    
  Aid Handbook, no charge; Federal Needs Analysis Methodology, no charge;            
  Verification Handbook, no charge; Training Materials, no charge.                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Students should contact the educational institution(s) they attend or plan to      


1092                                                                           11-08

  attend. Public and private nonprofit organizations should contact grantee
  educational institutions in their own State or multi-State areas. Educational
  institutions should contact the Regional Administrator for Student Financial
  Assistance in the appropriate ED Regional Office (see Appendix IV of the
  Catalog).
Headquarters Office:
  Federal Student Aid (FSA), Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue,
  S.W., Washington, DC 20202-5446. Contact: Federal Student Aid Information
  Center Telephone: Call 1-800-4FED-AID (800-433-3243).
Web Site Address:
  http://ifap@ed.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  64.117, Survivors and Dependents Educational Assistance; 84.007, Federal
  Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants; 84.031, Higher
  Education_Institutional Aid; 84.032, Federal Family Education Loans; 84.038,
  Federal Perkins Loan Program_Federal Capital Contributions; 84.042,
  TRIO_Student Support Services; 84.044, TRIO_Talent Search; 84.047,
  TRIO_Upward Bound; 84.063, Federal Pell Grant Program; 84.066,
  TRIO_Educational Opportunity Centers; 84.069, Leveraging Educational
  Assistance Partnership.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
84.037 PERKINS LOAN CANCELLATIONS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL STUDENT AID (FSA), DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part E, as amended, Public Law 103-
  208, 20 U.S.C. 421-429.
OBJECTIVES:
  To reimburse institutions for their share of loans canceled for Perkins Loan
  recipients who become teachers or who perform full-time active military service
  in the U.S. Armed Forces, and to restore to institutional revolving funds the full
  amounts of Direct and Federal Perkins Loans canceled for certain types of
  teaching service, Head Start service, military service in areas of hostility, law
  enforcement or corrections officer service, service as a nurse or medical
  technician, service to certain types of high risk children, and (for Federal
  Perkins Loans only) volunteer service.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use; Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  None for reimbursements but restorations may be used only for loan fund
  purposes.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Higher education institutions (public, other nonprofit, postsecondary vocational
  and proprietary) meeting the eligibility requirements may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  For Federal Perkins and National Direct Loan borrowers with loans made on or
  after July 23, 1992, and for Federal Perkins National Direct and Defense loan
  borrowers with an outstanding balance as of October 7, 1998, on loans made
  before 7/23/92. Loan cancellation is available for service as a full-time teacher in
  a designated elementary or secondary school having a high enrollment of
  children from low-income families; as a full-time staff member in a Head Start
  Program; as a member of the Armed Forces (in an area of hostilities); as a
  volunteer in the Peace Corps or ACTION programs as a full-time law
  enforcement officer or corrections officer serving local, State, or Federal
  agencies; as a full-time special education teacher, including teachers of infants,
  toddlers, children, or youth with disabilities in a public or other nonprofit
  elementary or secondary school system, or as a full-time qualified professional
  provider of early intervention services in a public or other nonprofit program
  under public supervision; as a full-time teacher of mathematics, science, foreign
  languages, bilingual education, or any other field of expertise that is determined
  by the State education agency to have a shortage of qualified teachers; as a full-
  time nurse or medical technician; or as a full-time employee of a public or
  private nonprofit child or family service agency that is providing or supervising
  the provision of services to high risk children and their families from low-
  income communities. Cancellation provisions are different for loans made before
  July 23, 1992.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cancellation certificates require documenting public service. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  In case of loans canceled under provisions of the National Defense Education
  Act, the institution receives funds from the Department of Education equal to
