  the institutional contribution of the amounts canceled; for loans canceled         
  pursuant to Title IV, Part E, of the Higher Education Act, the institution receives
  funds from the Department of Education to restore the full amount canceled. No     
  application form is required. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB     
  Circular No. A-110.                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Reimbursements are made annually upon acceptance of the institution's Fiscal       
  Operations Report.                                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Reimbursements are made upon acceptance of the Fiscal Operations Reports.          
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable. Payments are based on entitlement.                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Under the National Defense Education Act, as amended, payments are based on        
  ratio of institutional matching monies to total loan amount. The payment           
  replaces institutional funds (not less than one-tenth of loan) which were canceled 
  for teaching and/or military service. For loans canceled pursuant to the Higher    
  Education Act, the full amount canceled for teaching, Head Start, military,        
  volunteer, law enforcement or corrections officer, nurse or medical technician,    
  and child or family service agency is restored to the fund at the institution.     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Reimbursement takes place upon acceptance of an annual fiscal operations           
  report.                                                                            
Reports:                                                                             
  A fiscal operations report is submitted by each institution at the close of each   
  award year (June 30).                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  Periodic audits of loan cancellation at participating institutions will be made in 
  conformance with rules applicable to the Federal Perkins Loan Program.             
Records:                                                                             
  Records pertaining to the eligibility and repayment history of each loan recipient 
  must be retained by the institutions for three years after the final repayment or  
  cancellation occurs or until the loan is assigned. An institution must keep other  
  records for a period of three years following the institution's submission of its  
  fiscal operations report for an award year or until final resolution of an         
  applicable audit, whichever is later.                                              
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0200-0-1-502.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Direct payments) FY 07 $65,471,000; FY 08 est $64,327,000; and FY 09 est          
  $0.                                                                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Not currently available.                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Not currently available.                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  34 CFR 674; Student Guide, no charge; Student Financial Aid Handbook, no

                                                                                     
  charge; notification to Members of Congress, list of grantees published annually

                                                                                     
  or as required, no charge; Federal Needs Analysis Methodology Booklet, no          
  charge; Verification Handbook, no charge; training materials, no charge.           
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Regional Administrator for Student Financial Assistance in the appropriate         
  Regional Office. See Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Federal Student Aid Office, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue,          
  S.W., Washington, DC 20202-5347. Telephone: (800) 433-3243.                        
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://ifap.ed.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  64.117, Survivors and Dependents Educational Assistance; 84.007, Federal           
  Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants; 84.031, Higher                        
  Education_Institutional Aid; 84.032, Federal Family Education Loans; 84.033,       
  Federal Work-Study Program; 84.042, TRIO_Student Support Services; 84.044,         
  TRIO_Talent Search; 84.047, TRIO_Upward Bound; 84.063, Federal Pell Grant          
  Program; 84.066, TRIO_Educational Opportunity Centers; 84.069, Leveraging          
  Educational Assistance Partnership.                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  None.                                                                              
                                                                                     
84.038 FEDERAL PERKINS LOAN PROGRAM-FEDERAL                                          
CAPITAL CONTRIBUTIONS                                                                
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FEDERAL STUDENT AID, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                       


                                                                                11-08
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part E, as amended, Public Law 103-
  394, 20 U.S.C. 1087aa-1087hh.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide low interest loans to eligible postsecondary students with
  demonstrated financial need to help meet educational expenses.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Institutions use funds to make loans to needy, eligible students for meeting
  educational expenses. The maximum annual loan amount limit for an eligible
  student attending an institution is $6,000 for a graduate or professional student
  or $4,000 for undergraduates. The maximum aggregate loan amount for an
  eligible student attending an institution is $40,000 for a graduate or professional
  student, including loans borrowed as an undergraduate student, or $20,000 for a
  student who has successfully completed 2 years of a program of undergraduate
  study and $8,000 for any other student. For a program of study abroad that has
  reasonable costs in excess of the home costs, the annual and aggregate limits
  may be exceeded by 20 percent. An institution is entitled to an administrative
  cost allowance for an award year if it advances funds to students in that year
  under the Federal Perkins Loans Program, in an amount equal to five percent of
  the first $2,750,000 in expenditures, plus 4 percent for expenditures greater than
  $2,750,000 but less than $5,500,000, plus 3 percent for expenditures in excess
  of $5,500,000.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Higher education institutions (public, private nonprofit, postsecondary
  vocational, and proprietary) meeting eligibility requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Undergraduate, graduate, or professional students enrolled or accepted for
  enrollment as regular students in an eligible program, are maintaining
  satisfactory academic progress in accordance with the standards and practices of
  the institution, have financial need, do not owe a refund on a Title IV grant, are
  not in default on a Title IV loan, file a statement of educational purpose, file a
  statement of registration compliance (Selective Service) and meet
  citizen/resident requirements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Institutions must document their eligibility and students must demonstrate
  financial need. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Representatives of the appropriate ED Regional Office are available for
  consultation. See listing of ED Regional Offices in Appendix IV. Students
  should contact the institution(s) they attend or plan to attend. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Participating institutions submit a Fiscal Operations Report/Application to
  Participate in Federal Student Financial Aid Programs (ED Form 646-1) which
  is mailed to institutions of postsecondary education each summer by the Office
  Federal Student Aid. New institutions submit only the application form. This
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 110.
Award Procedure:
  The Office Federal Student Aid determines final awards and notifies
  participating institutions.
Deadlines:
  Specified on the application (usually around October 1).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Notices of tentative awards sent by February 1 and final award notification sent
  by April 1.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Annual.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funds are allocated to institutions on the basis of the institution's guarantee
  allocations and demonstrated need for funding. Institutions award funds to
  students on the basis of financial need as determined by the Federal Needs
  Analysis Methodology specified in statute. The institutional capital contribution
  (ICC) for institutions is one-third of the FCC (or 25 percent of the combined
  FCC and ICC).
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are awarded for use by participating institutions for one award year at a
  time following the year of application.
Reports:
  A single combined Fiscal Operations Report/Application form for Federal
  Perkins Loans, FSEOG, and FWS (ED Form 646-1) is submitted by each
  institution at the close of each award year of operation (June 30).
Audits:
  Institutions must have a nonfederal audit done on at least an annual basis at its
  own expense. Audits may also be performed at Government expense by the
                                                                                  1093
