OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To provide support research, development, demonstration, dissemination,          
  evaluation, and assessment activities aimed at improving the quality and         
  effectiveness of career and technical education.                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants (Contracts).                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  Awards may be made only for activities designed to improve the practice of       
  career and technical education. Announcements for grants are made in the         
  Federal Register. Contract competitions are announced in the Commerce            
  Business Daily.                                                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  Eligible applicants include universities or a consortium of universities and a   
  public or private nonprofit organization.                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Education professionals as well as the general public will benefit.              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  Legal signature by a designated official on the grant application or contract    
  proposal. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87      
  for State and local governments. OMB Circular A-110 for institutions of higher   
  education, hospitals and other nonprofit organizations.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Department of Education and

  required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This           
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. Application notices are      
  published in the Federal Register.                                               
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Applications for grants must be prepared in accordance with the regulations in   
  34 CFR Part 75. A proposal for a contract must be prepared in accordance with    
  program announcements in the Commerce Business Daily. This program is            
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                             
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Applications are reviewed in accordance with regulations applicable to the Carl  
  D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 found in 34 CFR Part       
  75 and with requirements published in the Federal Register.                      
Deadlines:                                                                         
  A request for applications is published in the Federal Register. Requests for    
  Proposals (RFPs) are released at various times throughout the fiscal year. A     
  synopsis of each procurement request will appear in the Commerce Business        
  Daily. This also contains information about where copies of the RFP can be       
  obtained.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  The Range is approximately 90 to 120 days.                                       
Appeals:                                                                           
  For grants, not applicable; for contracts, as specified in Federal Procurement   
  Regulations, 41 CFR 1, 2, 407, and 408.                                          
Renewals:                                                                          
  Awards are made annually, for a maximum award period of 5 years. Renewals        
  subject to the availability of appropriations and are contingent on recipient    
  performance.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  None.                                                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Grants or contract are awarded annually with a maximum award period of 5         
  years. Renewals are subject to the availability of appropriations and contingent 
  on recipient performance.                                                        
Reports:                                                                           
  Specific reporting requirements are contained in the Request for Proposal and    
  contract document. Reporting requirements for grants are required in the         
  regulations for Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 for   
  34 Part 75.                                                                      
Audits:                                                                            
  Periodic audits should be made as part of the recipient's systems of financial   
  management and internal control to meet the terms and conditions of contract     
  and grants.                                                                      
Records:                                                                           
  In accordance with Section 443 of the General Education Provisions Act,          
  grantees must maintain records for 3 years.                                      
Account Identification:                                                            
  91-0400-0-1-501.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $10,000,000; FY 08 est $7,860,000; and FY 09        
  est $0.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  None.

                                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                   
  Program funds support the National Career and Technical Education Research

                                                                                   
  Center, the National Assessment of Career Technical Education, and other

                                                                                   
  career and technical education dissemination activities.

                                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                   
  Regulations 34 CFR 401 and 411-413.

                                                                              11-08
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OVAE Policy, Research and Evaluation Staff 400
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-7242. Contact: Ricardo
  Hernandez. Telephone: (202) 245-7818. Internet: Ricardo.Hernandez@ed.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ovae/index.html .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funded Projects include activities that help States align their career and
  technical education accountability systems with the provisions of the Perkins
  legislation, showcase and replicate successful community college programs, and
  support a National Research Center for Career and Technical Education and a
  National Assessment of Career and Technical Education.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See 34 CFR Part 75 for selection criteria. However, each request for proposal
  contains weighted evaluation criteria which are unique to the particular
  requirements of the individual procurement.
84.060 INDIAN EDUCATION-GRANTS TO LOCAL
EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title VII, Part
  A, Subpart 1, 20 U.S.C. 7421-7429, 7491-7492.
OBJECTIVES:
  To address the unique education and culturally related academic needs of Indian
  students, including preschool children, so that these students can achieve to the
  same challenging state performance standards expected of all students. This
  program is the Department's principal vehicle for addressing the particular needs
  of Indian children.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants supplement the regular school program, helping Indian children sharpen
  their academic skills, assisting students in becoming proficient in the core
  content areas, and providing students an opportunity to participate in enrichment
  programs that would otherwise be unavailable. Funds support such activities as
  after-school programs, tutoring, and dropout prevention. This program is
  subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost
  rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 76.564-76.569. For assistance call the
  Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Local educational agencies (LEAs) that enroll at least 10 Indian children or in
  which Indians constitute at least 25 percent of the total enrollment. These
  requirements do not apply to LEAs serving Indian children in Alaska, California,
  and Oklahoma or located on, or in proximity to, an Indian reservation. Schools
  that receive funding from the DOI Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) under
  Section 1130 of the Education Amendments of 1978, 25 U.S.C. 2001, are
  deemed to be eligible to participate in this program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible Indian children enrolled in eligible local educational agencies, and BIE-
  funded schools.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must certify the number of eligible Indian children enrolled. The
  grant award is computed based on this information. An applicant must also
  assure that it has carried out a number of other required activities, including:
  holding a public hearing, establishing an Indian parent committee, and making
  arrangements for an evaluation of the effectiveness of the project. No grant will
  be made unless the applicant has the written approval of the applicant's Indian
  parent committee. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular
  No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency must be used
  for this program. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-102. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  The LEA annually submits to the Department of Education an application
  describing its proposed project. Application forms are available from the
  headquarters office. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-110.
                                                                                   1099
