Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Awards are issued annually directly to the LEA. Awards are made to all

  applicants that meet the applicable requirements of the Act and that have            
  designed a project that the Secretary of Education determines will substantially

  increase the educational opportunities of the Indian children served by the          
  applicant.                                                                           
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Deadlines are established annually. Notice of closing date is published in the       
  Federal Register.                                                                    
                                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Approximately 160 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  The Department calculates the amount of a grant that an LEA receives by              
  multiplying the number of Indian children enrolled in the LEA's schools by the       
  average per-pupil expenditure for the State in which the applicant is located, or    
  80 percent of the national average per pupil expenditure, whichever is greater.      
  In setting the actual amount of a grant, an applicant's formula amount is adjusted   
  on the basis of available appropriations. In order for an LEA to receive a grant,    
  the appropriate State educational agency (SEA) must certify that the combined        
  fiscal effort of that LEA and the State with respect to the provision of free public 
  education by that LEA for the preceding fiscal year was not less than 90 percent     
  of the combined fiscal effort for that purpose for the second preceding fiscal       
  year. If an LEA does not meet this requirement and the Secretary does not grant      
  a waiver for unusual circumstances, the LEA's grant award is reduced in the          
  proportion by which the LEA failed to meet the combined fiscal effort                
  requirement. Bureau of Indian Education are exempt from the combined fiscal          
  effort requirement. This program has no matching requirements.                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Grants are awarded for up to 60 months and funds must be spent or obligated          
  within the project period. Payments are made by direct deposit upon request by       
  LEAs.                                                                                
Reports:                                                                               
  Financial and performance reports are due within 90 days of the termination of       
  the project period.                                                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  Records must be maintained three years after the completion of the activity for      
  which grant funds were used.                                                         
Account Identification:                                                                
  91-0101-0-1-501.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $95,331,000; FY 08 est $96,613,000; and FY 09 est                     
  $96,613,000.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Awards range from $4,000 to $2,073,333.                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In fiscal year 2008, awards were made to approximatley 1,112 LEAs, 74 BIE            
  grant/contract schools, and 51 BIE operated schools. The projects that were          
  funded served approximately 474,445 Indian students in elementary and                
  secondary schools. The average per student payment was $204.                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  34 CFR 74, 75, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86.                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Office of Indian Education, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue,            
  S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Cathie Carothers. E-mail:                       
  cathie.carothers@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 260-1683.                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/oese/oie/programs.html.                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Instruction in reading and mathematics; counseling and guidance; native              
  language and cultural education instruction; early childhood and family              
  programs emphasizing school readiness; and school-to-work transition                 
  programs.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Criteria are contained in EDGAR; contact the program office for additional           
  information.                                                                         
1100                                                                             11-08

84.063 FEDERAL PELL GRANT PROGRAM
   (Pell Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL STUDENT AID, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part A, Subpart 1, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide eligible undergraduate postsecondary students who have
  demonstrated financial need with grant assistance to help meet educational
  expenses.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The student must be a U.S. citizen or eligible noncitizen who has been accepted
  for enrollment in, and is making satisfactory academic progress at an eligible
  institution of higher education. Eligible schools may be public or private
  nonprofit institutions of higher education, (such as colleges, universities,
  vocational-technical schools, hospital schools of nursing), and for- profit
  institutions (proprietary). Eligible males who are at least 18 years or older and
  born after December 31, 1959, can receive aid only if they have registered with
  the Selective Service. Graduate students and students who have already earned a
  bachelor's degree are not eligible for assistance, except those enrolled in an
  eligible program leading to a professional certification in teaching. Applicants
  must demonstrate need according to Part F of the Higher Education Act of 1965,
  as amended.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Undergraduate students and students pursuing a teaching certificate enrolled as
  regular students in an eligible program at an eligible institution of higher
  education and making satisfactory academic progress. The applicants must be
  U.S. citizens or eligible noncitizens and have a high school diploma, a GED, or
  demonstrate the ability to benefit from the program offered.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Undergraduate students and students pursuing a teaching certificate that are U.S.
  citizens or eligible noncitizens and meet financial need criteria. Students must
  be: regular students in an eligible program and enrolled in institutions of higher
  education, making satisfactory academic progress. Incarcerated students, except
  those incarcerated in local penal facilities, are ineligible. Students must sign a
  statement of educational purpose, not owe a refund on a Title IV grant, and not
  be in default on a Title IV loan. Eligible males that are at least 18 years old and
  born after December 31, 1959, can receive aid only if they have registered with
  the Selective Service.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Student completes a "Free Application for Federal Student Aid" and submits it
  to the agency specified on the form. Students may apply using a paper
  application, an electronic application, or via the Internet. The U.S. Department
  of Education calculates the student's financial eligibility for assistance and the
  agency to which the student sent the application returns a notification to the
  student of his or her eligibility for assistance. The student submits this
  notification to the institution of his or her choice in order to have his or her
  award calculated. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Institutions act as disbursing agents for the Department of Education. The
  institution that the student attends calculates and disburses the Federal Pell
  Grant, using a payment schedule developed by the Department of Education that
  determines the amount of the award based on the student's expected family
  contribution, cost of attendance, and enrollment status.
Deadlines:
  Contact the program office for deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 2 to 4 weeks.
Appeals:
  An institution, on the basis of supplemental documentation, may rule that an
  applicant is self-supporting, even though under the standard criteria, the
  applicant would normally be considered financially dependent on his or her
  parents. An institution may adjust on a case-by-case basis a student's data
  elements used to calculate his or her EFC and cost of attendance due to unusual
  circumstances documented by the institution.
Renewals:
  Students who have applied in the previous award year may be eligible to
  complete a paper or electronic renewal application which contains preprinted
  student data and requires students only to update certain information. However,
  eligibility is still annually determined.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
