  Project Grants (Contracts).                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The Department may award two types of grants: (1) Implementation grants for         
  gender equity programs in schools, and (2) research and development grants to       
  develop model equity programs. This program is subject to non-supplanting           
  requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced       
  under 34 CFR 76.564-76.569. For assistance call the Office of the Chief             
  Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Through a nationwide competition, public agencies, private nonprofit agencies,      
  institutions, organizations, student groups community groups, and individuals       
  may apply.                                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Public agencies, private nonprofit agencies, institutions, organizations, student   
  groups, community groups, and individuals will benefit.                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State         
  and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofits.                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required      
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is            
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal        
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the 
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State selected the

  program for review.                                                                 
Application Procedure:

  The Department publishes grant application forms and instructions in the

                                                                                      
  Federal Register. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular         
  No. A-110.                                                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications and proposals are reviewed by a panel of experts in women's            
  programs that represent various geographical areas, racial and ethnic groups, and   
  levels of education. Final decisions on grants are made by the Department on the    
  basis of the selection criteria published in the regulations and statutory          
  considerations, and to the extent feasible, on the basis of geographical            
  distributions. The Department may give special consideration to applications        
  submitted by applicants that have not received assistance under this part.          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Established for grants each year by notice published in the Federal Register.       
  Established for contracts in solicitation announcements in the Commerce             
  Business Daily.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately four months from receipt of applications.                             
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  The project period for a WEEA award may not exceed four years. To receive           
  continuation funding, grantees must demonstrate substantial progress toward         
  meeting their goals and objectives. Renewals are subject to the availability of     
  appropriations.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Up to four years, subject to the availability of funds.                             
Reports:                                                                              
  As part of the continuation funding process, grantees must submit annual            
  performance reports. The program office will establish a due date. A final          
  performance report must also be submitted.                                          
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  In accordance with Section 443 of the General Education Provisions Act, as          
  amended by the Improving America's Schools Act, grantees must maintain              
  records for three years.                                                            
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-0204-0-1-501.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,879,000; FY 08 est $1,846,000; and FY 09 est $0.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  For fiscal year 2007 the average award was $197,077. Range: $59,028 -               
  $247,500.                                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2006, the Department made 15 implementation grants.                  
                                                                                      
                                                                                11-08 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Educational Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) in 34
  CFR 74, 75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OII Improvement Programs, 400 Maryland Avenue,
  S.W., Rm 4W242, Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Beverly A. Farrar; E-mail:
  beverly.a.farrar@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 205-3145.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/equity/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects funded by this program have been used for: Training for teachers and
  other school personnel to encourage gender equity in the classroom; Evaluating
  programs designed to advance gender equity; School-to-work transition
  programs; Guidance and counseling activities to increase opportunities for
  women in technologically demanding workplaces; and, Developing strategies to
  assist local educational agencies in evaluating, disseminating, and replicating
  gender-equity programs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The selection criteria are outlined in the Education Department General
  Administrative Regulations. Contact the program office for more information.
84.101 CAREER AND TECHNICAL EDUCATION - INDIAN
SET-ASIDE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF VOCATIONAL AND ADULT EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, Title I, Section
  116(b), Public Law 109-270, 20 U.S.C. 2326(b).
OBJECTIVES:
  To make grants to or enter into contracts with Indian tribes, tribal organizations
  and Alaska Native entities to plan, conduct, and administer programs or portions
  of programs authorized by and consistent with the Carl D. Perkins Career and
  Technical Education Act of 2006.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Project Grants (Contracts).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To provide career and technical education opportunities for Indians and Alaskan
  Natives. This program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use
  a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 76.563. For
  assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on
  (202) 708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and Alaska Native entities are eligible for
  assistance under this program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally recognized Indian tribes, tribal organizations, and Alaskan Natives.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State,
  Local and Indian Tribal Governments and OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  educational institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Department of Education and
  required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program.
  Application notices are published in the Federal Register. Applications must be
  prepared and submitted in accordance with program announcements which are
  published in the Federal Register.
Award Procedure:
  Application are approved using the selection criteria found in 34 CFR 75.200.
Deadlines:
  Notice of application deadlines are published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 120 to 150 days after deadline for transmitting applications.
Appeals:
  After receiving written notice that the Department of Education will not award a
  grant, the eligible applicant, has 30 calendar days to request, in writing, a
  hearing to review the Department's decision.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 5 years.
Reports:
                                                                                 1103
