AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title VII Part B, Public Law 105-        
  277, 20 U.S.C. 1135-1135a-3.                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide assistance for innovative programs that improve access to and the       
  quality of postsecondary education.                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The Fund provides project grants for activities sponsored by institutions and      
  agencies that develop and demonstrate more effective approaches to the             
  postsecondary teaching and learning. Each year, the Department establishes         
  funding competitions and priorities. Funded projects are action-oriented,          
  focusing on improvements in practice rather than support for basic research.       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants include a full range of providers of postsecondary             
  educational services including but not limited to: 2 and 4-year colleges and       
  universities, community organizations, libraries, museums, consortia, student      
  groups, and local government agencies.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Postsecondary educational institutions and their students will benefit.            
Credentials/Documentation:

  None.

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

  Applications, consultation and assistance are available from the Fund staff.       
  Application materials and further information is also available on the WEB.        
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  In any fiscal year in which funds are available for new awards. The Department     
  of Education publishes a notice in the Federal Register inviting applications and  
  establishing a deadline date. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB     
  Circular No. A-110.                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Proposals are reviewed by field readers, by staff, by the Board of the Fund, by    
  the Fund Director, and by appropriate Department officials. State Postsecondary    
  Education Commissions must be given an opportunity to comment on projects          
  funded in their States.                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register or may be obtained by              
  contacting the program office.                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 4 to 8 months.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Applications for renewal of multi-year projects are processed and funded before    
  those for new projects. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The Fund suggests that some institutional funds be included as part of program     
  support, but this is not required by current legislation or regulation.            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  The Fund will support multi-year projects; grants are awarded on a 1-to 4-year     
  basis. Funds are released as required. Renewals are subject to the availability of 
  appropriations.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  The Fund require periodic progress evaluation reports from grant recipients, as    
  well as a final report upon termination of funding. Reporting requirements are     
  found in EDGAR.                                                                    
Audits:                                                                              
  Awardees must comply with standard Education Department audit requirements.        
Records:                                                                             
  Grant recipients are required to maintain standard financial records.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  91-0201-0-1-502.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $21,988,890; FY 08 est $120,333,397; and FY 09 est                  
  $37,433,000.                                                                       
                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  In FY 08, the average FIPSE comprehensive program grant was $200,000.              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 08, the Fund awarded approximately 68 comprehensive program grants.          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Program regulations are contained in 34 CFR 630. In addition, the Education        
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) in 34 CFR 74, 75,            
  77, 79, 80, 81, and 85 also apply. The official Application Notice is published    
  each year in the Federal Register. The Fund also published "Lessons Learned,"      
  a compilation of FIPSE projects. Contact the program office for more               


                                                                                11-08
  information.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Fund for the Improvement of Postsecondary Education, Office of Postsecondary
  Education, Department of Education, Washington, DC 20202-5175. Contact:
  Cassandra Courtney; E-mail: cassandra.courtney@ed.gov. Telephone: (202)
  502-7506.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/fipsecomp/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Improved undergraduate liberal arts curriculum; (2) improved undergraduate
  teaching; (3) improved graduate education; (4) improved access for Blacks,
  Hispanics, and other minorities; (5) cooperation between colleges and
  businesses; (6) teacher education; (7) uses of technology; and 8) improved study
  abroad programs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Grantees are selected based on the project's significance in improving
  postsecondary education; feasibility; and appropriateness.
84.120 MINORITY SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING
IMPROVEMENT
   (MSEIP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title III, Part E, Subpart 1, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To (1) Effect long-range improvement in science and engineering education at
  predominantly minority institutions and (2) increase the participation of
  underrepresented ethnic minorities, particularly minority women, in scientific
  and technological careers.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The program funds are generally used to implement design projects, institutional
  projects, and cooperative projects. The program also supports special projects
  designed to provide or improve support to accredited nonprofit colleges,
  universities, and professional scientific organizations for a broad range of
  activities that address specific barriers that eliminate or reduce the entry of
  minorities into science and technology fields. Grant funds may be used for
  paying costs necessary for improving and maintaining high quality science and
  engineering education programs in minority postsecondary institutions,
  including salaries and wages, equipment and instructional materials and
  supplies, travel related to the project activities, faculty development, and other
  direct and indirect costs. This program is subject to non-supplanting
  requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced
  under 34 CFR 76.564-76.569. For assistance call the Office of the Chief
  Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on 202-708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private and public nonprofit accredited institutions of higher education that
  award baccalaureate degrees; and are minority institutions; public or private
  nonprofit institutions of higher education that award associate degrees, and are
  minority institutions that have a curriculum that includes science or engineering
  subjects; and enters into a partnership with public or private nonprofit
  institutions of higher education that award baccalaureate degrees in science or
  engineering. Applications may also be submitted by nonprofit science-oriented
  organizations, professional scientific societies, and institutions of higher
  education that award baccalaureate degrees, that provide a needed service to a
  group of minority institutions; or provide in-service training for project
  directors, scientists, and engineers from minority institutions; or consortia of
  organizations, that provide needed services to one or more minority institutions,
  the membership of which may include: institutions of higher education which
  have a curriculum in science and engineering; institutions of higher education
  that have graduate or professional programs in science or engineering; research
  laboratories of, or under contract with the Department of Energy; private
  organizations that have science and engineering facilities; or quasi-governmental
  entities that have a significant scientific or engineering mission.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Private or public accredited 4-year institutions of higher education whose total
  enrollments are predominantly (50 percent or more) American Indian; Alaskan
  Native; Black (not of Hispanic origin); Hispanic (including persons of Mexican,
  Puerto Rican, Cuban, and Central or South American origin); Pacific Islander; or
  any combination of these or other ethnic minorities who are underrepresented in
  science and engineering. Also, 2- year private or public accredited minority (see
                                                                                 1105
