  description of minority above) institutions that have curricula in science or       
  engineering and have formed a partnership with a 4-year institution.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Institutions must provide the information necessary to establish their eligibility  
  for participation in MSEIP. The data on enrollment furnished to the Office for      
  Civil Rights to satisfy requirements for the "Fall Enrollment and Compliance        
  Report of Institutions of Higher Education" are acceptable. Applications must be    
  signed by the project director(s), the relevant department head(s), and by an       
  authorized organizational official. This program is excluded from coverage          
  under OMB Circular No. A-87.                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required      
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is            
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal        
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the 
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected 
  the program for review.

Application Procedure:

  By submission of a formal application describing the planned project and

                                                                                      
  proposed amount of the grant. See 34 CFR 637 and the specific program               
  guidelines. Application forms are provided by MSEIP. This program is subject        
  to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Panels of outside experts with knowledge of the fields covered by the application   
  review all applications. Grants awards are recommended to the Secretary by the      
  program office, in the order of merit.                                              
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register.                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 3 to 6 months.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards may be renewed for up to 2 years, renewals subject to the availability of    
  appropriations.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The program suggests that some institutional contribution be included as part of    
  program support. However, by law, this program has no matching requirements.        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  One to three years. Funds are awarded annually and disbursed as required.           
  Renewals are subject to the availability of appropriations.                         
Reports:                                                                              
  The program requires interim performance reports from directors of projects         
  having duration of more than one year at the end of each budget year's activities.  
   A substantive performance and financial report is required within 90 days upon     
  completion of the project for all funded projects.                                  
Audits:                                                                               
  Compliance with standard Department of Education requirements.

                                                                                      
Records:                                                                              
  Grantees are required to maintain standard programmatic and financial records.

                                                                                      
  Records are subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for three years

                                                                                      
  thereafter.

                                                                                      
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-0201-0-1-502.

                                                                                      
Obligations:

                                                                                      
  (Grants) FY 07 $8,730,820; FY 08 $8,577,487; and FY 09 est $8,577,487.

                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $25,000 to $300,000; the         
  average award is expected to be $127,500.                                           
                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  For FY 2008, approximately 23 new awards and 50 continuation awards are             
  expected to be made.                                                                
                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  34 CFR 637 and the Education Department General Administrative Regulations.         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Postsecondary Education, Institutional Development and                    
  Undergraduate Education Service, Department of Education, Washington, DC            
  20202. Contact: Bernadette Hence. E-mail Address: bernadette.hence@ed.gov.          
  Telephone: 202-219-7038.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iduesmsi/ .                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  84.031, Higher Education_Institutional Aid; 84.116, Fund for the Improvement        
  of Postsecondary Education.                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  (1) A project is providing state-of- the-art training to minority students in field 
  and laboratory studies dealing with water quality, and educating students on the    
  benefits of using an interdisciplinary approach to solving environmental            


1106                                                                            11-08

  problems. (2) A project has a summer science program designed to improve
  access of pre-college (8th and 9th grade) minority students to careers in science
  and engineering. Integrated, hands-on curriculum in biology, physical science,
  mathematics, and computer technology is offered. (3) A project is a consortium
  of five minority serving community colleges across the nation and two
  engineering schools whose purpose is to share resources and strategies in order
  to increase the number of bilingual engineers and strengthen the educational
  pipeline from pre-college through engineering school. (4) One project is to
  establish a computer laboratory in science and mathematics.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Decisions are based primarily on the scientific and educational merits of
  described activities and conformance with the objectives of the program.
  Priority is given to applicants which have not previously received funding from
  the Minority Science Improvement Program and to previous grantees with a
  proven record of success, as well as to proposals that contribute to achieving
  balance among projects with respect to geographic region, academic discipline
  and project type.
84.126 REHABILITATION SERVICES-VOCATIONAL
REHABILITATION GRANTS TO STATES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title I, Parts A and B, Sections 100-111.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist States in operating comprehensive, coordinated, effective, efficient and
  accountable programs of vocational rehabilitation; to assess, plan, develop, and
  provide vocational rehabilitation services for individuals with disabilities,
  consistent with their strengths, resources, priorities, concerns, abilities, and
  capabilities so they may prepare for and engage in competitive employment.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Federal and State funds are used to cover the costs of providing vocational
  rehabilitation services which include: assessment, counseling, vocational and
  other training, job placement, reader services for the blind, interpreter services
  for the deaf, medical and related services and prosthetic and orthotic devices,
  rehabilitation technology, transportation to secure vocational rehabilitation
  services, maintenance during rehabilitation, and other goods and services
  necessary for an individual with a disability to achieve an employment outcome.
  Services are provided to families of disabled individuals when such services will
  contribute substantially to the rehabilitation of such individuals who are being
  provided vocational rehabilitation services. Funds can also be used to provide
  Vocational Rehabilitation services for the benefit of groups of individuals with
  disabilities including the construction and establishment of community
  programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State agencies in all States (including territories/possessions) designated as the
  sole State agency to administer the vocational rehabilitation program may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligibility for vocational rehabilitation services is based on the presence of a
  physical and/or mental impairment, which for such an individual constitutes or
  results in a substantial impediment to employment, and the need for vocational
  rehabilitation services that may be expected to benefit the individual in terms of
  an employment outcome.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The State agency must certify the availability of State funds for matching
  purposes. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87
  for State and localgovernments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  State Vocational Rehabilitation agencies are required to submit a State Plan
  describing the manner in which they will administer the VR and Supported
  Employment programs in their States. The State is not required to submit any
  policies, procedures or descriptions related to its State Plan that have been
  previously approved and demonstrate that the State currently meets the
  requirements of the Act. However, State agencies are required to annually
  update and submit State Plan attachments related to: (1)the comprehensive
  system of personnel development; State assessments, estimates, goals and
  priorities, and reports of progress; (2)innovation and expansion activities, and
  (3)a description of the State's plans with respect to the distribution of State
  Supported Employment Title VI, Part B funds.
Award Procedure:
