  Notice of annual allotment to the State; grant award notices and funds are          
  withdrawn under the Electronic Transfer System.                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Changes to the State Plan and annual updates must be submitted to the               
  Rehabilitation Services Administration (RSA) by July 1 of each year. The State      
  Plan must be approved before the State agency can receives its annual allotment     
  of funds.                                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  If a State plan is disapproved, and after reasonable effort has been made to        
  resolve a dispute, the State agency may request a hearing. If dissatified with the  
  hearing officer's initial decision, the State agency may seek the Secretary's

  review of the decision.                                                             
Appeals:

  A State may appeal the Secretary's decision to disapprove the State plan by filing  
  a petition for review with the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in    
  which the State is located.                                                         
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title I, Part A, Section 110,     
  Federal funds are distributed (78.7 percent Federal and 21.3 percent State) based   
  on population weighted by per capita income. Funds become available for             
  obligations for the fiscal year for which they are appropriated and may remain      
  available for an additional year if the matching requirement is met in the year of  
  the appropriation. The statistical factors for fund allocation are: 1) The per      
  capita income 3-year average by State and the source is the Survey of Current       
  Business, Bureau of Economic Analysis; 2) the U.S. total population and State       
  population and the source is the Population Estimates Annual, Bureau of the         
  Census; Bureau of Labor Statistics. Statistical factors used for eligibility do not 
  apply to this program. This program has a maintenance of effort (MOE)               
  requirement. The MOE level is based on the amount of State expenditures for         
  the Federal fiscal year two years earlier. See funding agency for further details.  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Notice of annual allotment to the State; grant awards are issued biannually (1st    
  and 4th quarter) with funds released through the Electronic Transfer System.        
Reports:                                                                              
  Annual and quarterly progress reports; annual budget and case service reports;      
  quarterly financial reports.                                                        
Audits:                                                                               
  Conducted by ED Office of Inspector General and by site visits of regional staff.   
  Both are periodic but no set schedule. In accordance with the provisions of         
  OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local           
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend          
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or    
  a program- specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that         
  expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal          
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.            
Records:                                                                              
  Case service records for individual consumers. Financial and programmatic           
  records for a prescribed period of three years (34 CFR 80.42).                      
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-0301-0-1-506.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,802,716,000; FY 08 est $2,839,151,000; and FY 09 est              
  $2,839,151,000.                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  In FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $928,801 to $275,593,209.         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  As a group, persons who achieve employment as a result of vocational                
  rehabilitation services each year show notable gains in their ability to function in
  economic terms, regardless of their employment status when they apply for           
  services. In fiscal year 2007, approximately 981,050 persons received services.     
  Approximately 59.6 percent of those individuals who exited the program after        
  receiving services achieved an employment outcome.                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Vocational Rehabilitation Regulations (34 CFR 361). Vocational Rehabilitation       
  Manual. Rehabilitation Services Policy Directives and Technical Assistance          
  Circulars.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Education, OSERS Rehabilitation Services Administration 400           
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-2500. Contact: Carol Dobak E-             
  mail: Carol.Dobak@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7325.                                
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/rsabvrs/index.html.                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  53.001, Employment Promotion of People with Disabilities; 64.007, Blind             
  Rehabilitation Centers; 64.013, Veterans Prosthetic Appliances; 64.116,             
  Vocational Rehabilitation for Disabled Veterans; 84.160, Training Interpreters      


                                                                                 11-08
  for Individuals who are Deaf and Individuals who are Deaf-Blind; 84.161,
  Rehabilitation Services_Client Assistance Program; 84.169, Independent
  Living_State Grants; 84.187, Supported Employment Services for Individuals
  with Significant Disabilities; 84.234, Projects with Industry; 84.235,
  Rehabilitation Services Demonstration and Training Programs; 84.250,
  Rehabilitation Services_American Indians with Disabilities.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
84.128 REHABILITATION SERVICES-SERVICE PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title III, Sections 304 and 305, 29
  U.S.C. 775 and 777b.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide discretionary grant funds to State vocational rehabilitation agencies
  and public nonprofit organizations for special projects and demonstrations
  which hold promise of expanding and otherwise improving services to
  individuals with disabilities over and above those provided by the Basic Support
  Program administered by States.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Migrant and seasonal farm workers and recreational programs. Grants support
  vocational rehabilitation services to migrant and seasonal farm workers and
  projects that establish and operate recreation programs for individuals with
  disabilities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Recreational projects are awarded to States, public agencies and nonprofit
  organizations. Grants cannot be made directly to individuals. Migrant and
  seasonal farm worker projects are funded by grants to a State designated agency
  (including territories/possessions) and to nonprofit and local agencies in
  collaboration with the State agencies.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals with disabilities and individuals with significant disabilities as
  defined in Sections 7(9)(A)(B) and 7(20)(A), respectively, of the Rehabilitation
  Act of 1973, as amended.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. Costs will also be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. The standard application forms as
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must
  be used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Applications should be submitted to the Department of Education, Application
  Control Center, 600 Independence Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-4725, or
  in certain cases to the appropriate RSA Regional Commissioner, OSERS. The
  standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required by
  OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This programs is
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No.A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made on approval of the Commissioner of Rehabilitation Services
  and the Assistant Secretary, OSERS for new projects.
Deadlines:
  Contact the headquarters or regional offices for application deadlines. Deadlines
  are published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 120 to 150 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Projects with an approved multi-year project period may be continued based on
  the availability of adequate funds and an annual review of accomplishments to
  determine satisfactory performance. Renewals are available only through a new
  application process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Generally matching is required; the Migratory Worker program requires 10
  percent matching. The Federal share of the costs of the Recreation program shall
  be 100 percent for the first year, 75 percent for the second year, and 50 percent
                                                                                  1107
