Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Rehabilitation Services Administration, Office of Special Education and              
  Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W.,         
  Washington, DC 20202-2649. Contact: Ruth Brannon. Telephone: (202) 245-              
  7278.                                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ed.gov/offices/OSERS/RSA.                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  (1) Residency scholarships in physical medicine and rehabilitation; (2) graduate     
  scholarships in rehabilitation counseling; (3) graduate scholarships in              
  rehabilitation administration; and (4) undergraduate scholarships in                 
  rehabilitation service.                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The relevance of the purpose of the content and the training project to the          
  administratively established mission of the public rehabilitation program and the    
  objectives of the Rehabilitation Services Administration. The methodology to be      
  employed in implementing the project and its feasibility for the achievement of      
  the established educational objectives. The existence of a working relationship      
  with the State vocational rehabilitation agency and other agencies and               
  rehabilitation facilities providing vocational rehabilitation services. Criteria for 
  evaluating applications are published in program regulations 34 CFR 385 and          
  386.                                                                                 
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
84.132 CENTERS FOR INDEPENDENT LIVING                                                  
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,                             
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title VII, Chapter 1, Part C, 29 U.S.C.      
  796f-796f-6.                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide independent living services to individuals with significant               
  disabilities to assist them to function more independently in family and             
  community settings, by developing and supporting a statewide network of              
  centers for independent living.                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Contracts).                                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Federal funds are used for the establishment and operation of centers for            
  independent living which offer a combination of services. Services must include      
  independent living core services which mean information and referral services,       
  training in independent living skills, peer counseling, individual and systems       
  advocacy, and as appropriate, a combination of any other independent living          
  services specified in Title II of the Rehabilitation Act. Each center must have a    
  governing board composed of a majority of persons with significant disabilities.     
  The majority of the staff and individuals in decision making positions must be       
  individuals with disabilities. Not less than 1.8 percent and not more than two       
  percent of Federal funds appropriated for the program must be reserved to            
  provide training and technical assistance under contracts with entities              
  experienced in the operation of centers for independent living.                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  The principal eligible applicants are the private nonprofit agencies that received   
  funding directly or through subgrants or contracts under the Centers for             
  Independent Living program in fiscal year 1992. If funds remain available after      
  all principal eligible applicants have been funded, other centers for independent    
  living (as defined in Section 702 of the Rehabilitation Act) and State agencies      
  may receive funding based on satisfactory applications (including territories and    
  outlying areas).                                                                     
                                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Individuals with significant physical, mental, cognitive, or sensory impairments     
                                                                                       
  whose ability to function independently in the family or community or whose

                                                                                       
  ability to obtain, maintain, or advance in employment is substantially limited.

                                                                                       
  Eligibility shall not be based on the presence of any one or more specific

                                                                                       
  significant disabilities.

                                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                       
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State

                                                                                       
  and local governments. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB

                                                                                       
  Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions.

                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
                                                                                       
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information

                                                                                       
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the

                                                                                       
  State has selected the program for review. The standard application forms, as

                                                                                       
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102, must

                                                                                       
  be used for this program.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:



                                                                                  11-08
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
  Applications for new awards from eligible agencies should be submitted to the
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-
  4725, unless otherwise directed in the Federal Register Announcement.
Award Procedure:
  New awards are made on approval of the Commissioner of Rehabilitation
  Services Administration, and the Assistant Secretary of OSERS, based on the
  findings of Federal and nonfederal reviews of applications to ensure the
  applicants satisfactorily demonstrate that they have met the standards and
  assurances described in Section 725 (b) and (c) the Rehabilitation Act.
Deadlines:
  Contact headquarters office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Projects may be continued based on a self-evaluation report activities, and
  accomplishments as described in the Center's self-evaluation and annual report
  requirements under Section 725 (c)(8) of the Act, submittal of a continuation
  application, and the availability of funds. Renewals are available through the
  regular continuation application process. Renewals are subject to the
  availability of appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Existing projects are approved on an annual basis with funding on a twelve
  month basis. New projects are funded for five years with funding approved on a
  12-month basis. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.
Reports:
  Annual and fiscal progress reports and self-evaluations (A-F Reports) must be
  submitted as prescribed by Section 725 (c)(8) of the Rehabilitation Act, and
  grant award terms and conditions.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Fiscal records must be maintained for 3 years after the grant ends and the final
  financial report is submitted or until all audit questions are resolved.
Account Identification:
  91-0301-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $74,638,000; FY 08 est $73,334,000; and FY 09 $73,334,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range: $785,000 to $7,350,000. Average: $1,381,000 in FY 2007.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Grants supported the operation of approximately 340 centers in FY 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program Regulations at 34 CFR 364 and 366.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Rehabilitation Services Administration, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W.,
  Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Veronica Hogan. E-mail:
  veronica.hogan@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7378.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/cil/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.169, Independent Living_State Grants; 84.177, Rehabilitation
  Services_Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who are Blind.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Provided services vary from one center to another. Centers provide a
  combination of services, including: information and referral; independent living
  skills training; individual and systems advocacy; counseling services; housing;
  rehabilitation technology; mobility training; life skills training; interpreter and
  reader services; personal assistance services; accessible transportation; supported
  living; therapeutic treatment; provision of prostheses and other devices; and
  other services described in Section 7 (30)(B) of the Rehabilitation Act.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Selection criteria for this program include extent of need for the project, past
  performance, satisfaction of the standards and assurances set forth in Section
  725, quality of key personnel, budget and cost-effectiveness, evaluation plan,
  plan of operation, and involvement of individuals with significant disabilities.
  Criteria for evaluating applications are published in program regulations at 34
  CFR 366.
                                                                                  1109
