84.133 NATIONAL INSTITUTE ON DISABILITY AND                                            
REHABILITATION RESEARCH                                                                
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,                             
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title II.                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To support and coordinate research and its utilization to improve the lives of       
  people of all ages with physical and mental disabilities, especially persons with    
  severe disabilities, through: (1) identifying and eliminating causes and             
  consequences of disability; (2) maximizing the health, physical, and emotional       
  status of persons with disabilities and their functional ability, self- sufficiency, 
  self-development and personal autonomy; (3) preventing or minimizing personal        
  and family, physical, mental, social, educational, vocational, and economic          
  effects of disability; and (4) reducing and eliminating physical, social,            
  educational, vocational, and environmental barriers to permit access to services     
  and assistance and to use their abilities in daily life.                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts).                                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts are awarded for research,              
  demonstration, dissemination/utilization projects of national significance, and      
  career training projects. All applications must meet standards of excellence in      
  research and evaluation design. Fellowships support individual investigators in      
  pursuing research in rehabilitation.                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  States, public, private, or nonprofit agencies and organizations, institutions of    
  higher education, and Indian tribes and tribal organizations are eligible for        
  research projects and specialized research activities related to the rehabilitation  
  of individuals with disabilities; fellowships may be awarded to individuals.         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Individuals with disabilities may benefit directly or indirectly from research and   
  other activities conducted by grantees, such as technical assistance and             
  dissemination.                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicants should present written evidence of other agencies' willingness to         
  cooperate when the project involves their acceptance or the utilization of their     
  facilities or services. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular     
  No. A-87 for State and local governments. Nonprofit organizations must show          
  proof of such status.                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The NIDRR long-range research plan serves as the basis for program                   
  announcements that are published in the Federal Register and Requests for            
  Proposals that are published in the Commerce Business Daily. The standard            
  application forms as furnished by the Federal agency or published in the Federal     
  Register and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this                
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                 
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Official notice of approved applications is made through issuance of a Notice of     
  Grant Award or an official letter of fellowship award. Grants and fellowships are    
  awarded by the Secretary, Department of Education.                                   
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Grant application deadlines are established by individual notices inviting           
  applications. Contract deadlines are established in individual Requests for          
  Proposals. Announcements are published throughout the year.                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Ranges from 30 to 120 days. Generally, solicited grants, fellowships, and            
  contracts will be acted upon within 120 days.                                        
Appeals:                                                                               
  No formal appeal procedures. If an application is disapproved, the reasons for       
  disapproval will be fully stated. Applicants will be sent copies of the reviewers'   
  comments appraising their applications.                                              
Renewals:

  Grantees must submit annual progress reports in order to receive continuation

  funding. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.

                                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Grantees funded under Sections 204(a) and 202(k) of the Rehabilitation Act, as       
  amended, are required to share in the cost of projects. The amount of cost-

  sharing is negotiable. Cost-sharing for other grantees is at the Secretary's option. 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Funds are awarded in 12 month budget periods. Support beyond the first 12            
  month budget period is contingent upon evidence that the grantee has made            
  substantial progress toward achieving the objectives and outcomes for a project,     
  and availability of funds. Awards may be made for a maximum of five years.           
Reports:                                                                               
  Annual reports of progress and annual expenditures are required on all projects.     


1110                                                                             11-08

  Comprehensive final reports are due 90 days after the end of the project.
Audits:
  All fiscal transactions identifiable to Federal financial assistance are subject to
  audit by ED Audit Agency.
Records:
  Proper accounting records, identifiable by grant or contract number including all
  receipts and expenditures, must be maintained for three years. Subsequent to
  audit, they must be maintained until all questions are resolved.
Account Identification:
  91-0301-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $106,705,000; FY 08 est $105,741,000; and FY
  09 est $105,741,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable because the range and average varies greatly by competition.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Grant administrative policies for programs and fellowships may be obtained
  from the program office. NIDRR program regulations are contained in 34 CFR
  350-359.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact Headquarters Office.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OSERS National Institute on Disability and
  Rehabilitation Research 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-
  2500. Donna Nagle. E-mail Address: donna.nangle@ed.gov. Telephone: (202)
  245-7462.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/osers/nidrr/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  64.007, Blind Rehabilitation Centers; 84.129, Rehabilitation Long-Term
  Training; 84.224, Assistive Technology.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Research and Training Centers with emphasis on vocational rehabilitation,
  medical rehabilitation, rehabilitation of persons with mental retardation,
  deafness rehabilitation, rehabilitation of persons with mental illness, and
  rehabilitation of those with severe visual disabilities; (2) Rehabilitation
  Engineering Centers with the application of engineering advances as applied to
  rehabilitation of persons with physical disabilities; special activities in
  prosthetics, orthotics, and rehabilitation aids and devices for various
  handicapping conditions; (3) specific research and demonstration projects
  concerned with medical, psychosocial, sensory, psychiatric, and vocational
  rehabilitation; (4) research utilization and dissemination of research findings; (5)
  field initiated projects in rehabilitation research; (6) innovation grants for
  conferences, testing of devices and curriculum development; (7) grants for
  advanced training in research related to disability; and (8) grants for projects to
  facilitate implementation of the Americans with Disabilities Act.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Objectives of projects and programs must be in consonance with and should
  contribute to achievement of the goals and objectives of the Institute. Adequate
  facilities must be available or planned to carry out the specific project or
  program. Personnel must be trained and qualified to carry out the proposed
  programs, and staffing patterns must be appropriate. Demonstrations of adequate
  plans and procedures for ensuring the relevance to current needs in rehabilitation
  and the potential for project results must be effectively utilized. Commitment of
  available resources on the part of the applicant and evidence that the applicant
  has knowledge of rehabilitation issues as well as knowledge of past and present
  related research activities. A statement showing that the estimated cost to the
  government is reasonable in relation to anticipated project results. Demonstrate
  the ability and capacity to achieve stated goals. Demonstrate, coordinate and
  cooperate with regional programs, State agency programs, and private
  rehabilitation facilities. Specific weighted selection criteria are contained in
  program regulations. For fellowships, criteria are specified in program
  regulations, 34 CFR 356. These criteria include the education and experience of
  the individual and the quality of the fellowship proposal.
84.141 MIGRANT EDUCATION-HIGH SCHOOL
EQUIVALENCY PROGRAM
   (HEP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part A, Subpart 5, Section 418A, 20
  U.S.C. 1070d-2.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist students who are engaged, or whose parents are engaged, in migrant
