  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point  
  of contact in his/her State for more information on the process the State requires 
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program   
  for review.                                                                        
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with the regulations,    
  instructions, and forms included in the grant application package. The             
  applications are reviewed and evaluated by a panel for funding selection.          
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Department of Education notifies successful applicants of awards. Actual       
  negotiation and awarding of grants is done by the Department of Education's        
  Office of Migrant Education staff. The Department's Contracts Service              
  negotiates contracts.                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines are announced in the Federal Register.                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately three months.                                                        
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Interstate and intrastate coordination grants have no statutory formula or

  matching requirements. Consortium incentive grants are awarded by formula,         
  based on the amount of MEP funds an SEA is able to redirect from                   
  administrative activities into direct services to migrant children as a result of

                                                                                     
  participating in a consortium.

                                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                     
  Grants and contracts for interstate and intrastate coordination activities may be

                                                                                     
  awarded for not more than five years, subject to the availability of funds.

                                                                                     
  Consortium incentive grants are annual awards made for a 12-month period.

                                                                                     
Reports:

                                                                                     
  Annual performance reports are required from SEAs participating in consortium

                                                                                     
  incentive grants and from other grant recipients. Reports for activities funded

                                                                                     
  through contracts depend on the specific terms of the contract.

                                                                                     
Audits:

                                                                                     
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administration

                                                                                     
  Regulations in the Appendix to 34 CFR 80, State and local governments that

                                                                                     
  receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more within the State's fiscal year

                                                                                     
  shall have an audit made for that year. State and local governments that receive   
  between $25,000 and $500,000 within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit    
  made in accordance with the Appendix to Part 80, or in accordance with Federal     
  laws and regulations governing the programs in which they participate.             
Records:                                                                             
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education          
  Department General Administrative Regulations, grantees must maintain certain      
  project records for 3 years.                                                       
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0900-0-1-501.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  (Grants) FY 07 $10,000,000; FY 08 est $10,000,000; and FY 09 est

                                                                                     
  $12,500,000.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  For FY 2008, the range of awards for incentive grants is expected to be $60,000    
  to $250,000.                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Approximately 23 consortium incentive grants were awarded in FY 2006.              
  Consortium Incentive Grants fund high-quality consortia to improve the             
  intrastate and interstate coordinatin of migrant education programs by             
  addressing any of eight key needs of migratory children who have their             
  education interrupted. FY 2006 recipients implemented activities designed to       
  improve the proper and timely identification and proficiency of migratory          
  children. In addition, development of the Migrant Student Information              
  Exchange (MSIX) was completed in 2007.                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  34 CFR 75, 76, and 80.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                     
  Office of Migrant Education, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education,

                                                                                     
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., FOB6, Room 3E331,

                                                                                     
  Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Lori Ahmady. Telephone: (202) 260-1391.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/oese/ome/index.html.

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                     
  84.011, Migrant Education_State Grant Program; 84.141, Migrant

                                                                                     
  Education_High School Equivalency Program; 84.149, Migrant

                                                                                     
  Education_College Assistance Migrant Program; 84.213, Even Start_State

                                                                                     
  Educational Agencies; 93.246, Health Centers Grants for Migrant and Seasonal

                                                                                     
  Farmworkers; 93.600, Head Start.

                                                                                     


1112                                                                           11-08

EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funded programs include: (1) Consortium Incentive Grants, which support
  multistate consortia for improving coordination in seven areas of need (e.g.,
  improving the identification and recruitment of eligible migrant children; using
  scientifically based research to improve school readiness; improving reading and
  math proficiency; decreasing the dropout rate; improving high school
  completion rates; strengthening the involvement of parents; and expanding
  access to innovative technologies), and separetely by contract (2) the Migrant
  Education Hotline, a toll-free number (800) 234-8848 that migrant farmworkers
  and their families can call to obtain migrant education program services and for
  referrals to supportive services; (3) the Migrant Education Coordination Support
  Center, a logistical support contract to organize and implement effective
  meetings in support of national interstate coordination initiatives; and (4) the
  Migrant Student Information Exchange (MSIX) System, a records transfer
  system to facilitate the transfer of health and academic records of migrant
  children across states.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The criteria for interstate/intrastate coordination grants are consistent with 34
  CFR 75. Incentive grant awards are made under a formula established in a
  Notice of Final Criteria published April 8, 1996, in the Federal Register at FR
  15670.
84.145 FEDERAL REAL PROPERTY ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE DEPUTY UNDER SECRETARY FOR HUMAN
  RESOURCES AND ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, Section 203(k), as
  amended, Public Law 81-152, 63 Stat. 377, 40 U.S.C. 484(k); Department of
  Education Organization Act of 1979, Public Law 96-88, 93 Stat. 668, 20 U.S.C.
  3401 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To convey surplus Federal Real Property for educational purposes at fair market
  value.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Must be used for education purposes including but not limited to higher
  education, elementary and secondary education, libraries, central administrative
  facilities, educational television and radio, rehabilitation and training, vocational
  education and research, correctional education centers.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Those groups, organizations, entities, or institutions providing educational
  programs including: States; their political subdivisions and instrumentalities;
  and tax supported organizations or private nonprofit institutions held exempt
  from taxation under Section 501(C)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1954
  may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Program participants receiving educational opportunities will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  All potentially eligible entities are notified of the availability of property
  including State and local officials or any known educational entity authorized to
  operate within the general geographical area. Upon receipt of a notice of intent
  to file an application, a preapplication conference is possible. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review. An environmental impact assessment is required for
  this program.
Application Procedure:
  Application guides and deadlines for filing applications are provided on a case
  by case basis. All applicants must demonstrate the legal, financial, and technical
  ability to conduct the educational programs proposed. This program is excluded
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Written notification with follow-up issuance of formal transfer of title.
Deadlines:
  Twenty days from notice of availability to express interest in acquiring the
  property; 25 days from close of the expression of interest period to develop and
  submit applications.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Thirty to 90 days for tentative decisions, after receipt of the application, and 90
  to 360 days to the formal transfer of a title.
Appeals:
