  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Recipient must cover all expenses for improvement, renovation, repair,              
  maintenance, and operation of the program and facilities.                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Up to 30 years. The fair market value (FMV) of the property is amortized over a     
  period of time established based on the type of property acquired. Public benefit   
  discount of the FMV is granted when public educational programs are being           
  conducted.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                              
  An annual written report of activities by the recipient.                            
Audits:                                                                               
  On-site audits are conducted during the period of restriction to assure operation   
  as specified in the application and deed of transfer.                               
Records:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-0800-0-1-503.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  Funds are not separately identifiable.                                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not available.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  Current active cases number about 800 with approximately ten transfers per

                                                                                      
  year. Historically, the program has transferred over 2,000 parcels of various sizes

                                                                                      
  with an acquisition value of $1.17 billion.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                      
  Regulations: 34 CFR 12; Pamphlet: How to Acquire Surplus Federal Real

                                                                                      
  Property for Educational Purposes; Guidelines: Application outline and

                                                                                      
  preparation assistance can be obtained at the zone office level.

                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                      
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a list of regional offices.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:

  Federal Real Property Assistance Program, Office of the Administrator for           
  Management Services, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W.,              
                                                                                      
  Washington, DC 20202. Contact: David Hakola. Telephone: (202) 401-0500.

                                                                                      
Web Site Address:

  http://www.ed.gov.                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Type of surplus facilities available range from improved or unimproved land in      
  rural and urban settings (e.g., former Nike missile sites to total military bases   
                                                                                      
  such as former Air Force stations).

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  All applications must establish eligibility of the institution and its program

                                                                                      
  needs. A public benefit allowance formula, uniformly applied, determines the

                                                                                      
  respective benefits of each program. Basic allowance of 50 percent is allowed to

                                                                                      
  institutions meeting the following: (1) Proof of current need; (2) ability to

                                                                                      
  operate and maintain; (3) suitability of facilities or adaptability for conversion; 
  (4) requirement for utilization through period of restrictions; and (5)             
  nondiscrimination because of race, color, sex, handicap, or national origin.        
  Additional allowances are made for tax support, accreditation, hardship, not met

                                                                                      
  needs, integrated research, public services, and training programs. For             
  competing programs, the one showing the greatest public benefit is selected.        
  Where property can be divided, as many compatible programs as possible are          
  accommodated.                                                                       
                                                                                      
84.149 MIGRANT EDUCATION-COLLEGE ASSISTANCE                                           
MIGRANT PROGRAM                                                                       
                                                                                      
   (CAMP)                                                                             
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part A, Subpart 5, Section 418A, 20         
  U.S.C. 1070d-2.                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist students that are engaged, or whose parents are engaged in migrant and    
  other seasonal farmwork, and are enrolled or are admitted for enrollment on a       
  full-time basis in the first academic year at an institution of higher education.   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Project funds may be used to provide supportive and instructional services,         
  including tutoring and counseling services and assistance in obtaining student      


                                                                                11-08 
  financial aid (including stipends, tuition, and room and board) to first-year
  college students, assist those students in obtaining financial aid for their
  remaining undergraduate years, and provide follow-up services, such as
  monitoring and reporting students first year and subsequent year academic
  progress, and referrals to counseling services, academic assistance or financial
  aid.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Institutions of higher education or private nonprofit agencies in cooperation with
  institutions of higher education may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  First-year college students that are engaged, or whose parents are engaged, in
  migrant and other seasonal farmwork or who have participated or been eligible
  to participate in the Title I, Migrant Education Program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  To be eligible to participate in a CAMP project, the applicant must: (1) be
  enrolled or admitted for enrollment as a full-time student at a participating
  institution of higher education; (2) not be beyond the first academic year of a
  program of study at the institution of higher education, as determined under the
  standards of the institution; and (3) be determined by the grantee to need the
  academic and supporting services and financial assistance provided by the
  project in order to complete an academic program of study at the institution of
  higher education.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application forms are available from the Department of Education. An
  applicant submits its application to the Department of Education no later than
  the date announced by the Department in the Federal Register. An application
  must be prepared and submitted in accordance with the regulations, instructions,
  and forms included in the grant application package. The applications are
  reviewed and evaluated by a panel for possible selection for funding.
Award Procedure:
  The Department of Education notifies successful applicants of awards. Actual
  negotiation and awarding of grants is done by the Department of Education's
  Office of Migrant Education staff.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Department of Education for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately three months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Grants are awarded for 5 years, subject to the availability of funds and recipient
  performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The project period is up to 60 months; funds are awarded for a 12-month budget
  period. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds and recipient
  performance.
Reports:
  Annual continuation applications showing satisfactory performance are required
  each year, and a final performance report is required 90 days after project ends.
Audits:
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administration
  Regulations in the Appendix to 34 CFR 80, State and local governments that
  receive financial assistance of $100,000 or more within the State's fiscal year
  shall have an audit made for that year. State and local governments that receive
  between $25,000 and $100,000 within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit
  made in accordance with the Appendix to Part 80, or in accordance with Federal
  laws and regulations governing the programs in which they participate. If such
  entities are excluded, audits of these entities shall be made in accordance with
  statutory requirements and the provisions of 34 CFR 74.
Records:
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations (34 CFR 74, 75, and 80),
  grantees must maintain certain project records for five years.
Account Identification:
  91-0900-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $15,377,000; FY 08 est $15,108,000; anf FY 09 est
  $15,108,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The estimated average Federal contribution per student for FY 2008 is $7,914.
  For FY 2008 the range of awards is expected to be $200,000 to $425,000; the
  average is expected to be $410,000.
                                                                                  1113
