PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In FY 2008 the program will serve approximately 1,943 students in 38 projects.       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  34 CFR 206.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Office of Migrant Education, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education,           
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202.            
   Contact: David De Soto. E-mail: david.de.soto@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 260-         
  8103; Toll-Free Telephone: (800) 872-5327.                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/camp/index.html.                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  84.011, Migrant Education_State Grant Program; 84.042, TRIO_Student                  
  Support Services; 84.047, TRIO_Upward Bound; 84.141, Migrant                         
  Education_High School Equivalency Program; 84.144, Migrant                           
  Education_Coordination Program; 93.246, Health Centers Grants for Migrant            
  and Seasonal Farmworkers.                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Project funds are used to recruit potential participants and to provide services to  
  students in such areas as: tutoring; academic, career, and personal counseling;      
  health services; housing support; exposure to academic programs, cultural            
  events, and other activities not usually available to migrant youth; and             
  appropriate in-service training activities for project staff members.                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Program regulations (34 CFR 206) include the criteria for selecting proposals, as    
  follows: Need for Project (15 points); quality of project design (20 points);        
  quality of management plan (20 points); quality of project services (15 points);     
  quality of project personnel (10 points); adequacy of resources (10 points);         
  evaluation (10 points); prior experience (15 points).                                
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
84.153 BUSINESS AND INTERNATIONAL EDUCATION                                            
PROJECTS                                                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                     
  EDUCATION                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title VI, Part B, Section 613, as amended.             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To promote innovation and improvement in international business education            
  curricula at institutions of higher education (IHEs) and promote linkages            
  between IHEs and the business community.                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Institutions eligible for discretionary grant funding must enter into an agreement   
  with a business enterprise, trade organization or association engaged in             
  international economic activity, or a combination or consortium of the named         
  entities. Eligible activities include but are not limited to: Improving the business 
  and international education curriculum of institutions to serve the needs of the     
  business community, including the development of new programs for mid-career         
  or part-time students; Developing programs to inform the public of increasing        
  international economic interdependence and the role of U.S. businesses within        
  the international economic system; Internationalizing curricula at the junior and    
  community college level and at undergraduate and graduate schools of business;       
  Developing area studies and interdisciplinary international programs;                
                                                                                       
  Establishing export education programs; Conducting research and developing

                                                                                       
  specialized teaching materials appropriate to business-oriented students;

                                                                                       
  Establishing student and faculty fellowships and internships or other training or

                                                                                       
  research opportunities; Creating opportunities for business and professional

                                                                                       
  faculty to strengthen international skills; Developing research programs on

                                                                                       
  issues of common interest to IHEs and private sector organizations and

                                                                                       
  associations engaged in or promoting international economic activity;

                                                                                       
  Establishing internships overseas to enable foreign language students to develop

                                                                                       
  their foreign language skills and knowledge of foreign cultures and societies;       
  Establishing links overseas with IHEs and organizations that contribute to the       
  education objectives of this program; and Establishing summer institutes in          
  international business, foreign areas, and other international studies designed to   
  carry out the purposes of this program. This program is subject to non-              
  supplanting requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is       
  referenced under 34 CFR 76.563. For assistance call the Office of the Chief          
  Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Accredited institutions of higher education may apply. Institutions must enhance     
  their own international academic programs and provide appropriate services to        
  the business community to expand U.S. exports abroad.                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Students and faculty at accredited institutions will benefit.                        


1114                                                                             11-08

Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Eligible institutions may submit proposals for funding of projects when the
  announcement of a new competition appears in the Federal Register. Application
  forms and guidelines are available from the International Education Graduate
  Program Service. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No.
  A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Final recommendations are made to the Secretary of Education following advice
  from a panel of consultants, developed according to procedures in regulations.
Deadlines:
  Deadline for transmittal of proposals is announced in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Project period may last up to 24 months. Applicants submit performance reports
  for continuation funding according to instructions established by the
  Department. Renewals are subject to the availability of appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share for each fiscal year shall not exceed 50 percent of the cost of
  each project.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for a 12 or 24 month period. Renewals are subject to the
  availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  Institutions must provide final reports upon completion of the program.
  Financial reports are also required.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  All records supporting claims under grants or relating to accountability for
  awarded funds must be available upon request: (1) For three years after close of
  the fiscal year in which the grant was closed out; or (2) until the grantee is
  notified of the completion of a Federal financial audit, whichever is later.
Account Identification:
  91-0201-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $4,340,000; FY 08 $4,141,000; and FY 09 est $4,350,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $50,000 to $110,000; the
  average award is $82,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Twenty-three new grants and 26 continuation grants are expected to be awarded
  in FY 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  34 CFR 655, 661, Education Department General Administrative Regulations.
  Contact the program office for more information.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  International Education Programs Service, Office of Postsecondary Education,
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC
  20202-5331. Contact: Tanyelle Richardson. Telephone: (202) 502-7626. E-
  mail: tanyelle.richardson@ed.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpsbie/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.220, Centers for International Business Education.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects to improve the teaching of international business and support linkages
  between institutions of higher education and the business community engaged in
  international commerce. Howard Community College's International Business
  and Education Center developed a one-stop shopping International Trade
  Assistance Center (ITAC) which promotes economic development in Howard
  County and the State of Maryland with Title VI funding. ITAC provides
  services to businesses in all phases of exporting. Furthermore, ITAC has
  partnered with several public entities, including Maryland's International
  Division, World Trade Center Institute and Howard County's Economic
  Development Authority and others. These partnerships enable ITAC to serve
  businesses and promote their capacity to sell its goods and services outside the
  United States. Moreover, the International Business and Educational Center
