  (IBEC) has launched major initiatives to internationalize both credit and non-       
  credit courses at Howard Community College. These initiatives include                
  international faculty exchanges. The first-hand experience enables faculty to        
  enrich both the curriculum and the student awareness of international business       
  issues. Purdue University's School of Agriculture trained twenty undergraduate       
  students in agribusiness, Russian language and area studies. The students            
  studied Russian language, area studies, agriculture and business practices in        
  both Indiana and Novgorod, Russia. Each student collected and compiled market        
  research for Indiana businesses and were involved in several trade workshops in      
  Indiana to increase the capacity of Indiana agribusiness to conduct trade            
  activities in Russia.                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Applications for awards will be evaluated competitively under the selection          
  criteria which includes: 35 CFR 661.31 and (a) Neef for the project (25 points);     
  (b) plan of operation (20 points); (c) qualifications of the key personnel (10       
  points); (d) budget and cost effectiveness (15 points; (e) evaluation plan (25       
  points); and (f) adequacy of resoures (5 points).                                    
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
84.160 TRAINING INTERPRETERS FOR INDIVIDUALS                                           
WHO ARE DEAF AND INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE DEAF-                                             
BLIND                                                                                  
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                       
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,

                                                                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title III, Section 302(f), 29 U.S.C. 774     
  (d).

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To support projects that increase the numbers and improve the skills of manual,      
  oral, and cued speech interpreters providing services to individuals who are deaf    
  and individuals who are deaf-blind.                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants are awarded to eligible grantees to provide training for manual, tactile,     
  oral and cued speech interpreters. This training may include classroom               
  instruction, workshops, seminars, and field placement. Curriculum may include        
  specialty areas such as interpreting in legal, medical, or rehabilitation settings or
  for deaf-blind, speech-impaired or developmentally disabled persons.                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Public or private nonprofit agencies and organizations, including institutions of    
  higher education are eligible for assistance.                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Individuals preparing for employment as interpreters for individuals who are         
  deaf and individuals who are deaf- blind who are presently serving as                
  interpreters and wish to maintain or raise the level of their skills, and the persons
  who will receive the services of interpreters are beneficiaries of this program.     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State          
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions            
  applies.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required       
  by Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is eligible        
  for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal                  
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the

  single point of contact in his or her State; for more information on the process

  the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has       
  selected the program for review.                                                     
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application is made to Department of Education, Application Control Center,

  400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-4725. This program is                  
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  All new applications are reviewed by a panel of at least three individuals. Each     
  panel will include one or more nonfederal consultants with experience and            
  training with interpreting for individuals who are deaf and individuals who are      
  deaf-blind.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the headquarters office for application deadlines.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 120 to 160 days.

                                                                                       
Appeals:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Renewals:

  Renewals are available only through the new application process. Projects with       
  an approved multi-year project period may be continued based on the                  
                                                                                       
  availability of adequate funds and an annual review of accomplishments to

                                                                                       
  determine satisfactory performance.



                                                                                  11-08
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grantees are required to share in the cost of projects with a portion subject to
  individual negotiations.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects may be supported for a maximum of 5 years, with budget periods of 12
  months.
Reports:
  Annual financial and progress reports must be submitted as required by grant
  award terms and conditions.
Audits:
  Audits must be conducted on a continuing basis or at scheduled intervals,
  usually once a year, but a least once every 2 years. Institutions of higher
  education and nonprofit organizations are subject to the audit requirements of
  OMB Circular No. A-133. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of
  $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program- specific
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements
  for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Proper records must be maintained for three years subsequent to audit or until all
  audit questions are resolved.
Account Identification:
  91-0301-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $2,093,000; FY 08 est $2,084,000; and FY 09
  $2,084,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Project grants range from $120,000 to $160,000 in FY 08.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Six awards were made in FY 07.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Training of Interpreters for Individuals who are Deaf and Individuals who are
  Deaf-Blind Regulations (34 CFR 385); (34 CFR 396); the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) in 34 CFR 74, 75,
  77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OSERS Rehabilitation Services Administration 400
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-2736. Contact: Ruth Brannon,
  E-mail Address: ruth.brannon@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7278.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/students/college/aid/rehab/catinter.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.129, Rehabilitation Long-Term Training.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The program supports regional interpreter training projects to provide training to
  interpreters. The national interpreter training projects are also supported to
  address the training of interpreters via distance education and the training of
  interpreter educators and mentors.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The relevance of the project to the stated objectives of the interpreter training
  program. The number of trainees expected to be involved; demonstrated capacity
  or potential for providing interpreter training, the past record of existing training
  programs; and the geographical area expected to be served.
84.161 REHABILITATION SERVICES-CLIENT
ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
   (CAP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title I, Part B, Section 112, 29 U.S.C.
  732.
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To provide assistance in informing and advising clients and client applicants
  of available benefits under the Rehabilitation Act; (2) to assist and advocate for
  clients and client applicants in their relationships with projects, programs and
  services provided under this Act, including assistance and advocacy in pursuing
  legal, administrative and other appropriate remedies; (3) to provide information
  on available services under the Act and Title I of the Americans with Disabilities
  Act to any individual with disabilities in the State.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
                                                                                    1115
