  Grant funds may be used for services to help clients and applicants understand       
  the rehabilitation services available under the Rehabilitation Act, and to provide   
  information to individuals with disabilities in the State. No class action suits are 
  allowed.                                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  States and Territories (through the Governor) are eligible for awards. The           
  Governor shall designate a public or private agency to conduct the State's           
  program.                                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Clients and client applicants receiving services or interested in seeking            
  assistance under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, will benefit.           
Credentials/Documentation:

  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State          
  and local governments.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency with approval      
  of OMB under the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980. This program is eligible           
  for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal                  
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the      
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the  
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected  
  the program for review.                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  The Governor submits assurances that meet the requirements established under         
  the Rehabilitation Act, as amended, and Federal regulations. This program is         
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Notice of annual allotment to States, quarterly grant award notices and funds are    
  withdrawn under the Electronic Transfer System or by Treasury check.                 
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the headquarters office, RSA, for application deadlines.                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  None.                                                                                
Appeals:                                                                               
  The State may appeal to the Office of Administrative Law Judges (34 CFR 81).         
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  In accordance with the Act Federal funds are distributed on the basis of the         
  relative population of each State, except no State shall receive less than $50,000,  
  Territories $30,000. When total funds available for this program exceed              
  $7,500,000, the minimum allotment is $100,000 for States and $45,000 for             
  Territories. This program has no matching requirements.                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Formula grants.                                                                      
Reports:                                                                               
  Annual progress reports, expenditure reports, and quarterly cash reports.            
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,         
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:                                                                               
  Information on clients and client applicants served as cases should be               
  maintained.                                                                          
Account Identification:                                                                
  91-0301-0-1-506.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $11,782,000; FY 08 est $11,576,000; and FY 09 est                     
  $11,576,000.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  The awards ranged from $119,554 to $1,210,950 in FY 07.                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  An estimated 56,800 clients were served in FY 07. The majority (or more than         
  three-fourths) of individuals served were persons with disabilities who requested    
  routine information or referral services.                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Client Assistance Program Regulations (34 CFR 370).                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Department of Education, OSERS Rehabilitation Services Administration, 400           
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-2500 Contact: James Billy. E-              
  mail: james.billy@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7273.                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/rsacap/index.html.                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  84.126, Rehabilitation Services_Vocational Rehabilitation Grants to States;



1116                                                                             11-08

  84.128, Rehabilitation Services_Service Projects; 84.132, Centers for
  Independent Living; 84.160, Training Interpreters for Individuals who are Deaf
  and Individuals who are Deaf-Blind; 84.177, Rehabilitation
  Services_Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who are Blind;
  84.187, Supported Employment Services for Individuals with Significant
  Disabilities; 84.234, Projects with Industry; 84.240, Program of Protection and
  Advocacy of Individual Rights.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
84.165 MAGNET SCHOOLS ASSISTANCE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF INNOVATION AND IMPROVEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, Title V, Part C, as amended,
  20 U.S.C. 7231-7231j.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants to eligible local educational agencies (LEAs) or consortia of
  LEAs for use in magnet schools that are part of approved desegregation plans
  and that are designed to bring together students from different social, economic,
  racial, and ethnic backgrounds.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for planning and promotional activities directly related to the
  development, expansion, continuation, or enhancement of academic programs
  offered at magnet schools; for purchasing books, materials, equipment; and for
  paying or subsidizing the salaries of teachers and instructional staff in magnet
  schools. Funds may not be used for transportation or activities that do not
  augment academic improvement. No more than 50 percent of the funds an
  applicant receives in the first year of a grant may be used for planning. No more
  than 15 percent of the funds received for the second year may be used for
  planning, and no more than 10 percent in the third year. This program is subject
  to non-supplanting requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate
  which is referenced under 34 CFR 75.563. For assistance call the Office of Chief
  Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Local educational agencies (LEA) or consortia of LEAs that are implementing
  court-ordered or federally approved voluntary desegragation plans that include
  magnet schools are eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Local educational agencies and participating students will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must submit a copy of the desegregation plan they are implementing,
  or will implement, if assistance is made available. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application notices are published in the Federal Register and applications must
  be sent to the Education Department on or before the closing date. This program
  is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Recommendations for the approval of applications are made by the program
  staff on the basis of published criteria, statutory priorities, State comments
  received under the E.O. 12372 process, and with the advice and assistance of a
  panel of reviewers. In addition, no application may be approved unless the
  Assistant Secretary for Civil Rights determines that all required assurance will
  be met.
Deadlines:
  The closing date for the Magnet Schools Assistance Program is published in the
  Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range is anticipated to be 90 to 120 days from the closing date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  The project period for a Magnet School award may not exceed 36 months. To
  receive continuation funding, grantees must demonstrate substantial progress
  toward meeting their goals and objectives. Renewals are subject to the
