  availability of appropriations.                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  The length of grants will be up to 36 months, subject to the availability of funds.
Reports:                                                                             
  As part of the continuation funding process, grantees must submit performance      
  reports annually. The program office will establish a due date.                    
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofits                    
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000   
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit           
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a      
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,   
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                             
Records:                                                                             
  Section 443 of the General Education Provisions Act, as amended by the             
  Improving America's Schools Act, grantees must maintain records for 3 years.       
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0204-0-1-501.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $106,693,000; FY 08 est $104,829,000; and FY 09 est                 
  $104,829,000.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  The range of awards is approximately $350,000 - $4,000,000.                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Forty-one new awards were made in FY 2007. The next grant competition will         
  be held in FY 2010, subject to the availability of funds.                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Contact the Program Office for information on regulations (34 CFR 280).            
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Magnet Schools Assistance Program, School Improvement Programs, Office of          
  Elementary and Secondary Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W.,                     
  Washington, DC 20202-6140. Contact: Steve Brockhouse. Telephone: (202)             
  260-2476. Internet: Steve.Brockhouse@ed.gov.                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/magnet/index.html .

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                     
  84.004, Civil Rights Training and Advisory Services.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  The following are examples of the types of projects that have been funded: (1)     
  Implementation of science and math magnet projects; (2) projects to support        
  performing arts magnet programs at the elementary and secondary level; and (3)     
                                                                                     
  projects to support Montessori programs.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  Quality criteria are used to evaluate the applicant's plan of operation; personnel;
  project design; budget and resources; evaluation plan; and commitment and          
  capacity. Competitive priority is given to applicants that demonstrate the         
                                                                                     
  greatest need for assistance; that carry out new or significantly revised magnet

                                                                                     
  schools; that select students to attend magnet schools through methods such as

                                                                                     
  lottery, rather than academic examination; that implement innovative

                                                                                     
  educational approaches consistent with approved State and local system reform

                                                                                     
  plans; and that draw on comprehensive community involvement plans. For funds

                                                                                     
  appropriated for the program in excess of $75 million, competitive priority is

                                                                                     
  given to those applicants that did not receive funds under the program in the last

                                                                                     
  fiscal year of the previous funding cycle.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
84.169 INDEPENDENT LIVING-STATE GRANTS                                               
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                     
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,

                                                                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION

                                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                     
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title VII, Chapter 1, Part B, 29 U.S.C.

                                                                                     
  796a-796e-3.

                                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:

  To assist States in maximizing the leadership, empowerment, independence, and      
  productivity of individuals with disabilities, and the integration and full        
                                                                                     
  inclusion of individuals with disabilities into the mainstream American society,

                                                                                     
  by providing financial assistance for providing, expanding, and improving the

                                                                                     
  provision of independent living services.

                                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                     
  Formula Grants.

                                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                     
  Funds received under this Part may be used to support the operation of the

                                                                                     
  Statewide Independent Living Councils (SILC), States may also use funds

                                                                                     
  received under this Part for one or more of the following purposes: to provide

                                                                                     
  independent living services to individuals with significant disabilities; to

                                                                                11-08
  demonstrate ways to expand and improve independent living services; to support
  the operations of centers for independent living; to increase the capacities of
  public or nonprofit agencies and organizations and other entities to develop
  comprehensive approaches or systems for providing independent living services;
  to conduct studies and analyses, gather information, develop model polices and
  procedures, and present information, approaches, strategies, findings,
  conclusions, and recommendations to Federal, State, and local policymakers in
  order to enhance independent living services for individuals with disabilities; to
  train individuals with disabilities and individuals providing services to
  individuals with disabilities and other persons regarding the independent living
  philosophy; and to provide outreach to populations that are unserved or
  underserved by programs under this title, including minority groups and urban
  and rural populations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State agencies (including Territories) designated as the State unit to administer
  the State's independent living rehabilitation services program may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals with significant physical, mental, cognitive, or sensory impairments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The State agency must certify the availability of State funds for matching
  purposes. The match for this program may be in-kind. Costs will be determined
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. The standard application forms as
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must
  be used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  In order to be eligible for an allocation under this program, States must submit a
  State plan for independent living rehabilitation services (meeting requirements
  established under the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended) no later than July
  1, of the year preceding the year for which the plan is submitted. Beginning in
  fiscal year 1996, State applicants must submit a 3-year State plan. This plan
  must be submitted not later than July 1, of the year preceding the first year of the
  forth coming 3-year period. The plan is updated whenever necessary to reflect a
  material change in the administration of the plan. The State may choose to
  submit a consolidated 3-year rehabilitation plan that includes independent living
  rehabilitation services and either vocational rehabilitation services or both the
  State's rehabilitation plans and the State's plan for services for persons with
  developmental disabilities developed under the Developmental Disabilities Act.
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  A notice of annual allotment to the State is issued. Initial distributions are
  subject to reallocation at the end of the fiscal year. States receive annual grant
  award notices and funds may be withdrawn under the Electronic Transfer
  System.
Deadlines:
  Three-year State plans for independent living rehabilitation services are
  submitted for approval no later than July 1, of the third year of each 3-year
  cycle.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range has not been specified.
Appeals:
  After reasonable effort has been made to resolve the questions involved, the
  State may appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in which
  the State is located.
Renewals:
  Awards are made on an annual basis and may be renewed for up to two
  additional years, for a total of three years under an approved State Plan for
  Independent Living.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Federal funds are distributed based on the percentage each State's population
  constitutes of the total population of the United States. The source is the
  Population Estimates Annual, Bureau of the Census. The Federal share for any
  fiscal year is one State dollar for every Federal dollar. The State contribution
  may be cash or in-kind.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made on an annual basis.
Reports:
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations
  (EDGAR) for State-administered programs (34 CFR 76). Performance reports
  are required annually.
Audits:
  The Education Department periodically conducts audits and site visits of
  designated State unit programs funded under Part B. In accordance with the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 30, 2003), "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities
                                                                                   1117
