  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have   
  a single or a program- specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities 
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal    
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.           
Records:                                                                             
  As required by EDGAR for State-administered programs (34 CFR 76).                  
  Generally, States and subgrantees must retain records related to grant funds and   
  compliance for a period of 5 years.                                                
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0301-0-1-506.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $22,588,000; FY 08 est $22,193,000; and FY 09 est                   
  $22,193,000.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  The average award was $428,000 in FY 2007.                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Funds were awarded to 78 designated State units.                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Independent Living Regulations 34 CFR 364 and 365.                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Special Education and Rehabilitative Services, Department of             
  Education, Rehabilitation Services Administration, 400 Maryland Avenue,            
  S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Thomas Kelley. E-mail:                        
  thomas.kelley@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7404.                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/rsailstate/index.html.                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  84.132, Centers for Independent Living; 84.177, Rehabilitation                     
  Services_Independent Living Services for Older Individuals Who are Blind.          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  An approved State plan is a condition for receipt of funds under Title VII, Part B 
  of the Rehabilitation Act.                                                         
                                                                                     
84.170 JAVITS FELLOWSHIPS                                                            
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE FOR POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
  EDUCATION                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title VII, Part A, Subpart 1, as amended, 20         
  U.S.C. 1134-1134d.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide fellowships for graduate study in the arts, humanities, and social      
  sciences to individuals of superior ability selected on the basis of demonstrated  
  achievement, financial need, and exceptional promise. Fellowships are awarded      
  to students intending to pursue a doctoral degree and may be awarded to            
  students pursuing a master's degree in those fields in which the master's degree   
  is commonly accepted as the terminal degree.                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Fellowships).                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  A recipient is entitled to use the fellowship in a graduate program at any         
  accredited institution of higher education in which the recipient may decide to    
  enroll. For each fellowship awarded, the institution receives an institutional     
  allowance determined in accordance with the statutory formula in Section 703 of    
  the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended. The student receives a stipend       
  set at the level of support based on that provided by the National Science         
  Foundation graduate fellowships. No stipend may exceed the Fellow's                
  demonstrated level of need according to measurements of need set forth in Part F   
  of Title IV of the Higher Education Act. An individual receives payments only      
  during the periods that he or she maintains satisfactory progress in his or her    
  program of study and devotes essentially full time to study or research in the     
  field in which the fellowship was awarded.                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligibility is limited to U.S. citizens or nationals, permanent residents of the   
  United States, and citizens of any one of the Freely Associated States.            
  Applicants must be enrolled or eligible to be enrolled in a graduate program in    
  an approved field of study at an accredited institution of higher education. A     
  minimum of sixty percent of these new fellowships shall be awarded to              
  applicants in the humanities, twenty percent to applicants in the social sciences, 
  and twenty percent to applicants in the arts.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Citizens and nationals of the United States, permanent residents of the United

  States, and citizens of any one of the Freely Associated States.                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Regulations were published in the Federal Register on January 19, 1998. This       
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                     


1118                                                                           11-08

Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be submitted in accordance with the notice of closing date
  published in the Federal Register. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The Education Department will make awards in accordance with the criteria
  established by the Javits Fellowship Board. Contact the program office for
  additional information.
Deadlines:
  Published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office for more
  information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Requests for continuation of support are made on an annual basis by the
  institution at which the fellow is pursuing graduate study, but may not exceed 48
  months. Continuation awards are subject to the availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The length of the grant is one year, but renewable for up to a total of 48 months,
  subject to the availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  Certification from an appropriate official at an institution of higher education
  approved by the Secretary, stating that the fellow is making satisfactory progress
  and has devoted essentially full time to study or research in the field in which the
  fellowship was awarded.
Audits:
  Fiscal records of institutions administering funds are subject to audit by the
  Education Department at any time within 5 years after the close of the fiscal year
  in which expenditures are liquidated.
Records:
  All records bearing on the receipt and expenditure of funds under this program
  must be available for inspection by the Education Department. Records must be
  held for three years after the fiscal year in which expenditures are liquidated, or
  five years after the grant, or until resolution of any audit questions.
Account Identification:
  91-0201-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $9,699,030; FY 08 est $9,529,558; and FY 09 est $9,844,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 08, the fellowship stipend awards averaged $30,000. The new
  institutional allowance covering tuition and fees was $13,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 08, 220 fellowships were awarded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Javits Fellowship Program regulations are found at 34 CFR 650. Contact the
  program office for additional information.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  International Education and Graduate Programs, Office of Postsecondary
  Education, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington,
  DC 20202. Contact: Carmen Gordon. E-mail Address:
  Carmen.Gordon@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 219-7138.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpsjavits/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Fellowships are made in the following areas: arts, humanities, and social
  sciences.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are established by the Fellowship Board. Fellowship applications are
  evaluated based on scholarly achievements, including Graduate Record
  Examination (GRE) scores on the general test only if applying in the humanities,
  social sciences, multi-or interdisciplinary fields of art history or creative writing;
  awards; honors; narratives describing personal goals; and three letters of
  recommendation.
84.173 SPECIAL EDUCATION-PRESCHOOL GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
