  Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), Part B, Section 619, as          
  amended, 20 U.S.C. 1419.                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide grants to States to assist them to make available special education       
  and related services for children with disabilities ages 3 through 5 years, and at a 
  State's discretion, to 2 year old children with disabilities who will reach age      
  three during the school year.                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds are used by State education agencies: (1) to provide a free appropriate        
  public education (FAPE) to preschool children with disabilities ages 3 through       
  5, and at the State's discretion, to 2-year old children with disabilities who will  
  reach age 3 during the next school year; (2) to administer section 619; and (3)      
  for support services, direct services, activities to meet the State's performance    
  goals, to supplement other funds used for a Statewide coordinated service system     
  designed to improve results for children and families, to provide early              
  intervention services in accordance with Part C to children ages 3 through 5 who     
  would otherwise be eligible under the Preschool Grants program, and to continue      
  service coordination or case management for families who receive services under      
  Part C.                                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State education agencies in the 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto      
  Rico.                                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Children aged 3 through 5 with disabilities, and (at the State's option) 2-year old  
  children that will reach age 3 during the school year, that require special          
  education and related services will benefit.                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State          
  and local governments.                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  There is no separate application required for this program. States are eligible to   
  receive Preschool Grant funds if the State education agency establishes              
  eligibility under section 612 of the IDEA and if the State makes free appropriate    
  public education available to all children ages 3 through 5 with disabilities. This  
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental Review          
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official             
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110. States          
  are eligible to receive funds under this program if the Secretary has approved the   
  application and statement of assurances for that State as provided under Section     
  612 of Part B of the IDEA and if the State makes a free appropriate public           
  education available to all children ages 3 through 5 year with disabilities          
  residing in the State. Local education agencies establish eligibility for            
  Preschool Grant funds by meeting local application requirements in section 613       
  of Part B of the IDEA. A single application is required for programs funded          
  under Part B of the IDEA, including this program.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Once the State application is approved, a grant award representing the total         
  preschool grant amount for that fiscal year is forwarded to the State's department   
  of education. A State must serve all 3 through 5- year old children with             
  disabilities if the State wants to continue participating in this program, as well as
  to receive funds for children ages 3 through 5 served under the Grants to States     
  program.                                                                             
Deadlines:                                                                             
  To expedite funding, the submission date is set for April 1. However,                
  applications or amendments are accepted throughout the period of availability of     
  Federal funds (15 months following July 1st of the fiscal year).                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Within 90 days.                                                                      
Appeals:

  The Department shall not take any final action until the State is provided           
  reasonable notice and an opportunity to submit written objections and

  opportunity for a hearing.

                                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Preschool Grants are awarded to States based on a statutory formula. A State         
  first receives the amount it received under this program in federal fiscal year      
  1997. If the appropriation for this program in any subsequent fiscal year            
  exceeds the amount for the preceding fiscal year, 85 percent of the excess           
  appropriation over the fiscal year 1997 appropriation is awarded to States based     
  on their relative populations of children aged 3 through 5, and 15 percent of the    
  excess appropriation is awarded based on the State's relative population of all      
  children aged 3 trough 5 living in poverty. The formula also provides several        
  floors and ceilings regarding the amount a State can receive in a year. The Act      


                                                                                  11-08
  also specifies how funds are allocated when the appropriation is less the amount
  provided in the prior fiscal year.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are issued each fiscal year. The Federal obligation period is a 15-month
  period from July 1 through September 30. State and local education agencies
  have an additional 12-month period to obligate their funds.
Reports:
  Annual State Performance Plans (SPPs) and Annual Performance Reports
  (APRs) are submitted to the Department of Education from the State department
  of education, including information required by section 618 of the IDEA.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), audits of States, local governments, and non-profit organization,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  As required by EDGAR for State administered programs (34 CFR 76.730-731).
  Also, all records supporting claims for Federal funds or relating to the
  accountability of the grantee for the expenditure of such funds must be
  accessible for administrative review.
Account Identification:
  91-0300-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $380,751,000; FY 08 est $374,099,280; and FY 09 est
  $374,099,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $240,249 to $37,840,710;
  the averge award is expected to be $7,194,217.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  All State agencies, Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia received funding
  under this program. In FY 2008, 728,700 children with disabilities ages 3
  through 5 are expected to be served.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Final regulations were published in the Federal Register on August 14, 2006 at
  34 CFR 300, to implement the Individuals with Disabilities Education
  Improvement Act of 2004. Also, a notice of proposed rulemaking was published
  on May 13, 2008 proprosing additional amendments.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Special Education Programs, Department of Education, 400 Maryland
  Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Nancy Treusch, E-mail:
  nancy.treusch@ed.gov. Telephone (202) 245-7553.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/osers/osep/programs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.027, Special Education_Grants to States; 84.181, Special Education-Grants
  for Infants and Families.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Federal funds are combined with State and local funds to provide a free
  appropriate public education to chiildren with disabilities. This includes special
  education and related services. Funds are used for salaries of teachers and other
  personnel, educational materials, related services -- such as speech or
  occupational therapy -- and other education-related needs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The applicants eligible to participate in the program qualify for funding based
  upon a approved application under section 612 of the Individuals with
  Disabilities Education Act and that they provide a free appropriate public
  education to all children with disabilities ages three through five. The criteria
  for approving an application appear in the regulations implementing Part B of
  the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act.
84.177 REHABILITATION SERVICES-INDEPENDENT
LIVING SERVICES FOR OLDER INDIVIDUALS WHO ARE
BLIND
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title VII, Chapter 2, 29 U.S.C. 796j-
  7961.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide independent living services to individuals aged 55 or older who are
  blind, whose severe visual impairments make competitive employment
  extremely difficult to obtain, but for whom independent living goals are feasible.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
                                                                                 1119
