  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Federal funds are used to improve or expand independent living services.             
  Among the services provided are those to help correct or modify visual               
  disabilities, provide eyeglasses and other visual aids, provide services and         
  equipment to enhance mobility and self-care, provide training in Braille and         
  other services to help older individuals who are blind adjust to blindness,          
  provide teaching services in daily living activities, and other supportive services  
  that enable individuals to live more independently. Funds can also be used to        
  improve public understanding of the problems faced by visual older individuals       
  who are blind.                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Any State agency (including territories/possessions designated by the State as       
  the State agency) authorized to provide rehabilitation services to blind             
  individuals may apply.                                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Individuals aged 55 or older whose severe visual impairments make gainful            
  employment extremely difficult to obtain but for whom independent living goals       
  are feasible and beneficial.                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State          
  and local governments.                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required       
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is             
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal         
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the      
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the  
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected  
  the program for review.                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Any application for a grant must contain assurances that the designated State

  unit will seek to incorporate any new methods and approaches relating to             
  services for older individuals who are blind into the State plan for Independent

  Living Services. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular

                                                                                       
  No. A-110.                                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Awards are made on approval of the Commissioner of Rehabilitation Services           
  and the Assistant Secretary, OSERS, based on a review of findings of Federal         
  and nonfederal reviewers.                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the headquarters office for application deadlines.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 90 to 120 days.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Awards are made on an annual basis. Projects may be continued for up to 4            
  additional years based on annual review of accomplishments, submittal of a           
  continuation application, and the availability of funds. Renewals are available      
  only through the new application process.                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Cost-sharing of $1 for each $9 of Federal grant funding is required.                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Projects in fiscal year are generally approved for a period of up to five years with 
  funding approved on a 12 month basis. Renewals are subject to availability of        
  appropriations.                                                                      
Reports:                                                                               
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations           
  (EDGAR) for direct gt programs (34 CFR 75). Generally, annual performance            
  and financial reports are required.                                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  As required by EDGAR for direct grant programs (34 CFR 75). Generally,               
  records related to grant funds, compliance, and performance must be maintained       
  for a period of five years after completion.                                         
Account Identification:                                                                
  91-0301-0-1-506.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $32,895,000; FY 08 est $32,320,000; and FY 09 est                     
  $32,320,000.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  The average State award was $623,000 in FY 07.                                       


1120                                                                             11-08

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Funding was received by 56 projects in FY 07.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Section 752 of the Rehabilitation Act, as amended, and 34 CFR 367, as
  amended.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OSERS 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Rm. 5057, PCP,
  Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Thomas Kelley. E-mail:
  thomas.kelley@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7404.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/rsailob/index.html .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.132, Centers for Independent Living; 84.169, Independent Living_State
  Grants; 84.240.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects have extended services to subgroups of the older blind population that
  are vulnerable to premature or unnecessary institutionalization as well as to older
  deaf-blind persons. These projects provide services in both rural and urban
  areas and about half of the grantees make subgrants to community nonprofit
  agencies to deliver services. In addition to in-home and/or facility- based
  service provisions, mobile units and community minicenters are available near
  the residences of persons being served. All projects provide comprehensive
  independent living services.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Selection criteria for this program are extent of need for the project, plan of
  operation, quality of key personnel, budget and cost-effectiveness, evaluation
  plan, adequacy of resources, service comprehensiveness, and likelihood of
  sustaining program. Criteria for selecting projects are published in program
  regulation at 34 CFR 367.
84.181 SPECIAL EDUCATION-GRANTS FOR INFANTS
AND FAMILIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), Part C, as amended, 20
  U.S.C. 1431-1444.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants to States to assist them to implement and maintain a
  Statewide, comprehensive, coordinated, multidisciplinary, interagency system to
  make available early intervention services to infants and toddlers with
  disabilities and their families.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are used to assist States in implementing and maintaining their Statewide
  systems of early intervention services. Funding may also be used to provide
  direct services for eligible infants and toddlers with disabilities aged birth
  through 2 and their families that are not otherwise provided by other public or
  private sources, to expand and improve services for infants and toddlers with
  disabilities that are otherwise available and to provide a free appropriate public
  education, in accordance with Part B of IDEA, to children with disabilities from
  their third birthday to the beginning of the following school year. States also
  have the discretion to provide services to infants and toddlers who are at risk of
  having substantial developmental delays if they do not receive appropriate early
  intervention services. The Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement
  Act of 2004 amended IDEA to allow states, at their discretion, to continue to
  serve children with disabilities under this program beyond age 2 until the
  children enter or are eligible to enter kindergarten or elementary school, if the
  children are otherwise eligible for services under the Preschool Grants Program
  (84.173), and previously received services under this program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The 50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the
  Secretary of the Interior and the following jurisdictions: Guam, American
  Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Infants and toddlers with disabilities aged birth through 2 and their families will
  benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State,
  local, or Indian tribal governments. No State or jurisdiction may receive a grant
  unless the Secretary has approved the application and statement of assurances
  for that State.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
