  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is           
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal       
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the    
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.                                                            
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Specific application procedures are provided in the application form for the       
  program. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-          
  110. The State lead agency, the applicants for this program, are designated by     
  the Governor.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Once the State application is approved, a grant award representing the total State

  allocation is forwarded to the State lead agency.                                  
Deadlines:

  To expedite funding, the submission date for applications is set for April 1.

                                                                                     
  However, applications or amendments are accepted throughout the period of          
  availability of Federal funds (15 months following July 1st of the fiscal year).   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Within to 90 days.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                             
  The Department may not disapprove such an application unless the Department        
  determines, after notice and opportunity for a hearing, that the application,      
  including the statement of assurances, fails to comply with the requirements of    
  Section 637.                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Awards are based on each applicants proportionate share of children, aged birth    
  through two years, in the general population, based on the most recent             
  satisfactory data available from the United States Bureau of the Census. No        
  State receive less than 0.5 percent of the funds available for all States. The     
  Department of Interior receives 1.25 percent of the amount available to States.    
  The Outlying Areas receive up to 1 percent of the funds appropriated.              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants are issued each year. The Federal obligation period is a 15-month period    
  from July 1 through September 30 of the following fiscal year. State and local     
  education agencies have an additional 12-month period to obligate their funds.     
Reports:                                                                             
  An annual report to the Governor and to the Secretary by the State Interagency     
  Coordinating Council on the status of early intervention programs operated         
  within the State as required under Section 641(e)(1)(D) of the Act, and other      
  information that the Secretary may require, including information required under   
  Section 618 of the Act. Annual State Performance Plans and Annual                  
  Performance Reports are submitted to the Department of Education by the lead       
  agency on an annual basis.                                                         
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  As required by EDGAR for State administered programs (34 CFR 76.730-731).          
  Generally, the State and its contractors must retain records related to grant funds
  and compliance for a period of 5-years.                                            
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0300-0-1-501.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $436,400,000; FY 08 est $435,653,802; and FY 09 est                 
  $435,654,000.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $2,135,000 to $53,978,000;      
  the average award is expected to be $8,213,000.                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 2008, approximately 313,600 infants and toddlers with disabilities are       
  expected to be served.                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Final regulations were published in the Federal Register on June 1, 1998, at CFR   
  Part 303. A notice of proposed rulemaking was published on May 9, 2007, to         
  implement Part C of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Improvement        
  Act of 2004.                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Special Education Programs, Department of Education, 400 Maryland        
  Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Ruth Ryder, E-mail:                   
  ruth.ryder@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 202-245-7629.                                  


                                                                                11-08
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/osers/osep/programs.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.027, Special Education_Grants to States; 93.600, Head Start.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funds are used to implement and maintain statewide systems of early
  intervention services, provide direct services that are not otherwise provided by
  other public or private sources, and to expand or improve services that are
  otherwise available.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The applicants eligible to participate in the program qualify based on an
  approved application under Part C of the IDEA.
84.184 SAFE AND DRUG-FREE SCHOOLS AND
COMMUNITIES-NATIONAL PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SAFE AND DRUG-FREE SCHOOLS, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, Title IV, Part A, Subpart 2, as
  amended, Sections 4121, 4122, 4129, and 4130, 20 U.S.C. 7131, 7132,7139,
  and 7140.
OBJECTIVES:
  To enhance the Nation's efforts to prevent the illegal use of drugs and violence
  among, and promote safety and discipline for, students at all educational levels;
  and to support mentoring programs for at-risk children.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Projects funded under this program support alcohol abuse reduction, mentoring
  drug and violence prevention and education, and school emergency preparedness
  activities. The Secretary may fund applications that address specific priorities
  and requirements published in the Federal Register. Maintenance of effort
  provisions apply to local educational agencies (LEAs); an LEA may receive a
  grant only if its State educational agency finds that either the combined fiscal
  effort per student or the aggregate expenditures of the LEA and the State with
  respect to the provision of free public education by the LEA for the preceding
  fiscal year was not less than 90 percent of the combined fiscal effort or aggregate
  expenditures for the second preceding fiscal year. All grantees must use an
  indirect cost rate that is consistent with the provisions in 34 CFR 75.560 through
  75.564.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public and private organizations, and individuals.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Higher education institutions, State educational agencies (SEAs), Local
  educational agencies (LEAs), and nonprofits will benefit, as will students,
  teachers, and parents.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Contact the headquarters for credential/documentation requirements.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplications are not required under this program. This program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applications or proposals must be prepared and submitted in accordance with
  applicable program announcements.
Award Procedure:
  After completion of competitive peer review of applications, the Department of
  Education makes the final decision on the approval and funding of applications.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register; contact the headquarters office
  for application deadlines and instructions.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The estimated amount of time needed to approve/disapprove an application is
  five months following the application deadline date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Contingent upon the availability of funding and satisfactory performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula and no matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants will be made for a period of 12 to 48 months. Renewals are subject to
  the availability of funds.
Reports:
  Specified reporting requirements are included in the grant, cooperative
                                                                                  1121
