EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  None.                                                                              
                                                                                     
84.186 SAFE AND DRUG-FREE SCHOOLS AND                                                
                                                                                     
COMMUNITIES-STATE GRANTS                                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF SAFE AND DRUG-FREE SCHOOLS, DEPARTMENT OF                                
  EDUCATION                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, Title IV, Part A, Subpart 1, as            
  amended. 20 U.S.C. 7111-7117.                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To offer a disciplined environment conducive to learning, by preventing            
  violence in and around schools and strengthen programs that prevent the illegal    
  use of alcohol, tobacco, and drugs, involve parents, and are coordinated with      
  related Federal, State, and community efforts and resources.                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Drug prevention programs must convey a clear and consistent message that the       
  illegal use of alcohol and other drugs is wrong and harmful. Generally, funds      
  under the program may not be used for construction, medical services, or drug      
  treatment or rehabilitation. This program is subject to maintenance of effort      
  requirements. In addition, grantees and subgrantees must use an indirect cost      
  rate that is consistent with the provisions in 34 CFR 75.560 through 75.564.       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  State Departments of Education; State Governors; State educational agencies        
  (SEAs), Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of          
  the Northern, Mariana Islands may apply. Organizations primarily serving and       
  representing Native Hawaiians for the benefit of Native Hawaiians may also         
  apply under a designated grant competition.                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Governors' offices, SEAs, LEAs, Insular Areas, Tribal governments, and other       
  public and private nonprofit organizations (including parent groups, community     
  action agencies, and other community-based organizations); American Indians        
  and Native Hawaiians; and students and teachers in public and private schools      
  in each State.                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  or the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Each State must submit to the Department of Education an application covering      
  a 5-year period which is amended as needed.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications from States are reviewed for compliance with the statute. If it is    
  determined that the application meets the statutory requirements, the Assistant    
  Deputy Secretary awards the State its allotment. For Native Hawaiians program,     
  peer reviewers recommend grantees based on the quality of applications             
  submitted.                                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact the Headquarters Office for application deadlines.                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The estimated amount of time needed to approve/disapprove a State's                
  application is approximately sixty days. For Native Hawaiians Program,             
  approximately sixty days are needed to review and award grants after receipt of    
  application.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  State applications are amended as needed. Awards are generally made effective      
  July 1 of each calendar year. For Native Hawaiians Program, continuation           
  grants are negotiated at the time of initial award.                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The statutory formula used to determine each State's allotment is authorized by    
  Title IV, Part A, Subpart 1, Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as            
  amended (ESEA). This program has maintenance of effort requirements; see           
  funding agency for further details. From the total appropriation, 1 percent or

  $4.75 million (whichever is greater) is reserved for the Outlying Areas, 1 percent 
  or $4.75 million (whichever is greater) is reserved for the Bureau of Indian

  Affairs for programs for Indian youth, and 0.2 percent is reserved for programs    
  for Native Hawaiians. The Department allocates the remaining funds by formula      
  to States, half on the basis of school-aged population and half on the basis of



                                                                                11-08
  State shares of ESEA Title I Concentration Grants funding for the previous year,
  provided that no State receives less than the greater of: (1) one-half of 1 percent
  of the total, or (2) the amount it received under the program in fiscal year 2001.
  Of each State's allocation, the Governor may elect to administer up to 20 percent
  of the funds; the remainder is administered by the State educational agency. The
  SEA must subgrant at least 93 percent to LEAs. LEA allocations are based 60
  percent on ESEA Title I Concentration Grant funding for the preceding year and
  40 percent on enrollment.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, State awards are made from July 1 of one year to September 30 of the
  following year. In addition, funds remain available to States for an additional
  fiscal year for obligation and expenditure. Grantees draw down funds
  electronically as needed.
Reports:
  A report on the programs funded by the State, is required by Section 4117 of the
  Act. Financial and performance reports are required in accordance with 34 CFR
  76.720, 80.40, and 80.41. For Native Hawaiians programs, financial and
  performance reports are required in accordance with 34 CFR 74.51, 74.52, and
  75.720.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  In accordance with 34 CFR 76.730, grantees must maintain appropriate records
  related to grant funds, compliance, and project performance for three years after
  the completion of activity for which the grant or subgrant funds were used that
  are sufficient to establish fiscal accountability and to facilitate an effective audit.
  For Native Hawaiians program, records retention and access requirements are in
  accordance with 34 CFR 74.53 and 75.730-732.
Account Identification:
  91-0203-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $346,500,000; FY 08 est $294,759,000; and FY 09 est
  $100,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Awards ranged from $1,423,000 to $35,162,000; $5,473,000 (FY 08).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Awards have been made for programs that help create safe and drug-free
  learning environments for childen to all 50 States, the outlying areas, and the
  BIA, and to Native Hawaiian organizations.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The administration of the formula grants program is governed by the Statute,
  EDGAR (34 CFR 76, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, and 85) and non-regulatory guidance.
  In addition, 34 CFR 98 and 99 apply to this program. The administration of the
  Native Hawaiians program is governed by the Statute and EDGAR (34 CFR 74,
  75, and 77).
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, Office of Safe and Drug-Free Schools, 400 Maryland
  Avenue, S.W., Room 3E314, Washington, DC 20202-6123. Contact: Paul
  Kesner, Telephone: (202) 205-8134. E-mail: paul.kesner@ed.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/osdfs/programs.html#state.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.184, Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities_National Programs.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Drug and violence prevention activities such as developing instructional
  materials; professional development programs for school personnel; community
  service projects; conflict resolution, peer mediation, mentoring, and character
  education; establishing safe zones of passage for students to and from school;
  acquiring and installing metal detectors; hiring security personnel; student
  instruction; parent education and involvement; student assistance programs,
  including counseling, identification, and referral services; and strengthening
  readiness and emergency management planning efforts.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  States receive formula grants based upon the submission of an approvable
  application. For Native Hawaiians program direct grant awards are made
  through a peer review process where applications are selected based on quality.
84.187 SUPPORTED EMPLOYMENT SERVICES FOR
INDIVIDUALS WITH SIGNIFICANT DISABILITIES
   (Supported Employment State Grants)
                                                                                      1123
