FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,                            
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title VI, Part B.                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide grants for time limited services leading to supported employment for     
  individuals with the most severe disabilities to enable such individuals to         
  achieve the employment outcome of supported employment.                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Federal funds are used to: (1) complement services under Title I of this Act; (2)   
  provide skilled job trainers who accompany the worker for intensive on-the-job      
  training; (3) provide systematic training; (4) provide job development; (5)         
  provide follow-up services; (6) provide regular observation or supervision at       
  training sites; and (7) provide other services needed to support an individual in   
  employment. Funds may not be used to provide the required extended services         
  once an individual transitions from the time limited services provided under VI-    
  C.                                                                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State vocational rehabilitation agencies (including territories and possessions)    
  designated in the State plan to administer the Vocational Rehabilitation            
  Program.                                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Individuals with the most severe disabilities whose ability or potential to engage  
  in a training program leading to supported employment has been determined by        
  evaluating rehabilitation potential. In addition, individuals must need extended    
  services in order to perform competitive work and have the ability to work in a     
  supported employment setting.                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State         
  and local governments.                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the

  State has selected the program for review. The standard application forms as        
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must         
  be used for this program.

Application Procedure:                                                                
  Each State agency must submit a State plan supplement as part of the State plan     
  under Title I of the Rehabilitation Act. Vocational rehabilitation agencies         
  submit the State Plan and supplement to RSA. This program is excluded from          
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Notice of annual allotment to the State, annual grant award notice, and funds are   
  withdrawn under the Electronic Transfer System.                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  A State plan supplement to the State plan for vocational rehabilitation services is 
  submitted to the RSA for approval by July 1 of each year.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  State plans must be approved within 90 days of being submitted to RSA.              
Appeals:                                                                              
  A State may appeal the Secretary's decision to disapprove the State plan by filing  
  a petition for review with the United States Court of Appeals for the circuit in    
  which the State is located.                                                         
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Federal funds are distributed based on the U.S. total populations and State         
  population and the source is the Population Estimates Annual, Bureau of the         
  Census. No State shall receive less than $300,000 or one-third of one percent of    
  the sums made available for the fiscal year, whichever is greater. This program     
  has no matching requirements.                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Notice of annual allotments to the State, annual grant awards are made and          
  funds are withdrawn under the Electronic Transfer System.                           
Reports:                                                                              
  Annual and quarterly progress reports and annual budget and quarterly financial     
  status reports (Standard Form 269) are required.                                    
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              


1124                                                                            11-08

Records:
  Case records on individual consumers, fiscal records for a prescribed period for
  audit purposes and retention of records for three years are required.
Account Identification:
  91-0301-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $29,700,000; FY 08 est $29,181,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2008, formula grant awards ranged from $36,476 to $2,996,357.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Supported Employment Services for Individuals with the most Significant
  Disabilities (34 CFR 363).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OSERS Rehabilitation Services Administration, 400
  aryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-2500. Contact: Carol Dobak, E-
  mail: carol.dobak@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7325.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/rsasupemp/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  53.001, Employment Promotion of People with Disabilities; 64.007, Blind
  Rehabilitation Centers; 64.013, Veterans Prosthetic Appliances; 64.116,
  Vocational Rehabilitation for Disabled Veterans; 84.126, Rehabilitation
  Services_Vocational Rehabilitation Grants to States; 84.128, Rehabilitation
  Services_Service Projects; 84.132, Centers for Independent Living; 84.160,
  Training Interpreters for Individuals who are Deaf and Individuals who are Deaf-
  Blind; 84.161, Rehabilitation Services_Client Assistance Program; 84.169,
  Independent Living_State Grants; 84.177, Rehabilitation Services_Independent
  Living Services for Older Individuals Who are Blind.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not Applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable (Catalog users should contact the State Vocational Rehabilitation
  agency for criteria).
84.191 ADULT EDUCATION-NATIONAL LEADERSHIP
ACTIVITIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF VOCATIONAL AND ADULT EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Adult Education and Family Literacy Act, Section 243, as amended, Public Law
  105-220, 20 U.S.C. 1213-1213d.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support applied research, development, demonstration, dissemination,
  evaluation, and related activities that contribute to the improvement and
  expansion of adult basic education nationally.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Contracts).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To support projects for the improvement and expansion of adult basic education
  nationwide. This program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and must
  use a restriced indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 75.563. For
  assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on
  202-708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Postsecondary education institutions, public or private agencies or organizations,
  or consortia of these institutions, agencies, or organizations are eligible.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Basic education and literacy programs for adults seeking to obtain an education
  at the primary or secondary levels will benefit through national evaluation,
  leadership and/or technical assistance efforts.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Legal signature by a designated official on the application or proposal. Costs
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and
  local governments. Costs will also be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and OMB Circular No. A-122 for
  nonprofit institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Department of Education and
  required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed when applying for a competitive
  grant.
