Application Procedure:                                                              
  Applications must be prepared and submitted to the Department of Education in     
  accordance with program announcements and established deadlines which are         
  published in the Federal Register. This program is subject to the provisions of   
  OMB Circular No. A-110.                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Proposals or applications are reviewed in accordance with regulations for the     
  Adult Education Act. After negotiation, a notification for award is sent to the   
  successful recipient.                                                             
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Requests for proposals for contract competitions are published in the Commerce    
  Business Daily. Grant proposals deadlines are published in the Federal Register.  
   Contact the program office for more information.                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 90 to 120 days.                                                     
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Funding will usually cover a 12 to 18-month period.                               
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial status and performance reports required by the Education Department     
  General Administrative Regulations, 34 CFR 75.720. Specific reporting             
  requirements are contained in the award document.                                 
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133. Nonprofit organizations shall have an audit made in        
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-110.                                           
Records:                                                                            
  In accordance with Section 443 of the General Education Provisions Act,           
  grantees must maintain records for three years.                                   
Account Identification:                                                             
  91-0400-0-1-501.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $9,005,000; FY 08 est $6,878,000; and FY 09 est $14,000,000.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                    
  Varies considerably by project.

                                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                    
  Projects supported by this program will generate reports of use to practitioners,

                                                                                    
  researchers, and policy makers and will provide technical assistance to adult

                                                                                    
  education programs.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                    
  Regulations are found in 34 CFR 460 and 34 CFR 75.730-75.734.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                    
  Not applicable.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                    
  U.S. Department of Education, OVAE Division of Adult Education and Literacy

                                                                                    
  400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-7240. Contact: Christopher

                                                                                    
  Coro, E-mail: christopher.coro@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7717.                 
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ovae/pi/AdultEd/index.html.                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  84.002, Adult Education - Basic Grants to States.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                    
  Funds have been provided for: (1) Evaluations of "what works" for adult basic

                                                                                    
  education and English as a second language programs; (2) conducting an

                                                                                    
  evaluation of Section 353 State set-aside program; (3) conducting an evaluation

                                                                                    
  of the AEFLA set-aside for corrections education; and (4) an evaluation of a

                                                                                    
  distance learning initiative, Crossroads Cafe.

                                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                    
  Applications should address each criterion: (1) Plan of operation; (2) quality of

                                                                                    
  key personnel; (3) budget and cost-effectiveness; (4) evaluation plan; (5)

                                                                                    
  adequacy of resources; (6) national need; and (7) adequacy of resources.

                                                                                    
  Contact the program office for additional information.

                                                                                    
                                                                                    
84.196 EDUCATION FOR HOMELESS CHILDREN AND                                          
YOUTH                                                                               
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT                             
  OF EDUCATION                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act, Title VII, Subtitle B.

                                                                              11-08 
OBJECTIVES:
  To ensure that all homeless children and youth have equal access to the same
  free, appropriate public education available to other children, the Education for
  Homeless Children and Youth program provides assistance to States, Outlying
  Areas, and the Bureau of Indian Education (BIE) to: (1)establish or designate an
  Office of Coordinator of Education of Homeless Children and Youths; (2)
  develop and carry out a State plan for the education of homeless children; and
  (3)make subgrants to local educational agencies to support the education of
  those children.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  SEAs and LEAs may use funds for a wide variety of activities that facilitate the
  educational success of homeless children and youth. Such activities include:
  tutoring summer enrichment programs, the provision of school supplies, and
  professional development designed to heighten educators' understanding of and
  sensitivity to the needs of homeless children and youth. Services provided with
  these funds cannot replace the regular academic program and must expand upon
  or improve services provided as part of the regular academic program. This
  program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use a restricted
  indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 76.564-76.569. For
  assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on
  (202) 708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Departments of Education in the 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto
  Rico, the Outlying Areas, and schools serving Indian students that are funded by
  the Secretary of the Interior may apply. Only LEAs are eligible for State
  subgrants.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Homeless children and youth in elementary and secondary schools (and
  homeless preschool children and the parents of homeless children) of the
  applicant agency will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication forms are not required. This program is eligible for coverage
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program
  for review. The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency
  and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  A State that desires to receive a grant under this program may submit to the
  Department either an individual State plan or an ESEA consolidated State plan.
Award Procedure:
  Grant awards to the State educational agencies will be issued when applications
  are approved.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Biennial updates of State plans are required.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Each State educational agency receives an amount that bears the same ratio to
  the amount appropriated for this program as the amount allocated under Section
  1122 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act bears to the total
  allocations made under Section 1122. States shall not receive less than
  $150,000, 0.25 percent of the total, or the amount of the State's fiscal year 2001
  award.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is provided for one fiscal year. Sums appropriated in each fiscal year
  shall remain available for the succeeding fiscal year.
Reports:
  States must report an estimate of the number of homeless children and youth in
  the State and the number being served by this program. They must also report
  on the nature and extent of problems relative to access of homeless children and
  youth to public preschool, elementary, and secondary schools and the difficulties
  in identifying the special needs of such children.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
                                                                                 1125
