  EDUCATION                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, Title V, Part D, Subpart 7.                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To encourage improved instruction in mathematics, science, and foreign              
  languages as well as other subjects, such as vocational education. To serve         
  underserved populations, including the disadvantaged, limited-English               
  proficient, and individuals with disabilities. Grants are made to develop and       
  support educational and instructional programming, and to provide technical         
  assistance in the use of such instructional programming.                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Eligible telecommunications partnerships must be organized on a statewide or        
  multi-state basis. Partnerships must assure that a significant portion of the       
  facilities and equipment, technical assistance and programming for which            
  assistance is sought will be made available to elementary and secondary schools     
  of local education agencies that have a high percentage of children counted for     
  purposes of Part A of Title I of the Elementary Secondary Education Act.            
  Priority is given to those partnerships that provide services to meet the needs of  
  traditionally underserved populations, individuals traditionally excluded from      
  careers in mathematics and science because of discrimination or economically        
  disadvantaged backgrounds, areas with scarce resources, and areas with limited      
  access to courses in mathematics, science and foreign languages. Funds through      
  this grant may not supplant funds otherwise available for these purposes. Not       
  less than 25 percent of the funds appropriated during any fiscal year shall be      
  used for the cost of instructional programming. Not less than 50 percent of the     
  funds appropriated during any fiscal year shall be used for the cost of facilities, 
  equipment, teacher training or retraining, technical assistance or programming      
  for school districts which are eligible to receive assistance under Part A of Title 
  I. No grant may exceed $10,000,000 in any single fiscal year. This program is       
  subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost     
  rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 75.563. For assistance call the Office of     
  Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on 202-708-7770.                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible telecommunications partnerships must be organized on a statewide or        
  multistate basis. Two types of partnerships are eligible: (1) A public agency or    
  corporation established for the purpose of developing and operating                 
  telecommunications networks to enhance educational opportunities provided by        
  educational institutions, teacher training centers, and other entities, provided    
  that the agency or corporation represents the interests of elementary and           
  secondary schools eligible to participate under Title 1 of the Elementary and       
  Secondary Education Act of 1965; or (2) a partnership that will provide             
  telecommunications services and includes three or more of the following entities,   
  at least one of which shall be State or local educational agency: (a) A local       
  educational agency, that serves a significant number of elementary and              
  secondary schools that are eligible for assistance under Part A, of Title 1 or      
  elementary and secondary schools operated or funded for Indian children by the      
  Department of the Interior; (b) A State educational agency; (c) adult and family    
  education programs; (d) an institution of higher education or a State higher        
  education agency; (e) a teacher training center or academy; (f) a public or         
  private entity with experience and expertise in the planning and operation of a     
  telecommunications network, including entities involved in telecommunications       
                                                                                      
  through satellite, cable, telephone, or computer; or a public broadcasting entity

                                                                                      
  with such experience; or (g) a public or private elementary or secondary school.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Elementary and secondary school students and teachers.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
                                                                                      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information

                                                                                      
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the

                                                                                      
  State has selected the program for review. The standard application forms as

                                                                                      
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must

                                                                                      
  be used for this program.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Described in the application notice published in the Federal Register. Contact

                                                                                      
  the headquarters office listed below for application packages containing the

                                                                                      
  application notice and application assurance forms.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

  The selection of applications is competitive, based on staff and nonfederal         
                                                                                      
  review using selection criteria contained in the Education Department General

                                                                                      
  Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) at 34 CFR 74.210 and the application

  notice published in the Federal Register.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  Announced in the application notice published in the Federal Register. Contact      
  the headquarters office listed below for further information.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   


                                                                                11-08 
  Approximately 120 days following the application deadline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations
  (EDGAR) for direct grant programs (see 34 CFR 75.253). Generally, for
  multiple-year awards, continuation awards after the first budget period are made
  if sufficient funds have been appropriated; the recipient has either made
  substantial progress in meeting the goals of the project or obtained approval for
  changes in the project; the recipient has submitted all required reports; and
  continuation is in the best interest of the government.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share for the first and second fiscal years shall be 75 percent; for the
  third and fourth years 60 percent; and for the fifth year 50 percent. All resources
  must be used to supplement and not supplant resources otherwise available for
  the purposes of the grant. Other regulations in 34 CFR 74, Subpart G (cost-
  sharing or matching), apply. The Secretary of Education will consider requests
  to reduce or waive matching requirements if financial hardship is demonstrated.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Following a competitively selected award of up to twelve months, awards may
  be made for up to four subsequent years; subject to the availability of funds.
Reports:
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Relations
  (EDGAR) for direct grant programs (see 34 CFR 75). Generally, annual
  performance and financial reports are required.
Audits:
  See 34 CFR 74.26. Institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations
  are subject to the audit requirement of OMB Circular No. A-133. In accordance
  with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003),
  "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal
  entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards
  will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  No. A-133.
Records:
  As required by EDGAR for direct grant programs (34 CFR 75). Generally,
  records related to grant funds, compliance and performance must be maintained
  for a period of five years after completion.
Account Identification:
  91-0204-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $11,513,000; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 2007, the range of awards was from $420,000 to $2,980,864; the average
  award was $1,877,148.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, six continuation awards were granted.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Department of Education General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) 34
  CFR 74, 75, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, Office of Innovation and Improvement, Technology in
  Education Programs, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Rm. 4W219, FB-6,
  Washington, DC 20208-5900. Contact: Brian Lekander. E-mail:
  Brian.lekander@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 205-5633.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/starschools/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In FY 2005, the most recent year that new awards were made in this program,
  the Department funded a grant to the University of Oklahoma's K-20 Center for
  Educational and Community Renewal to: (1) develop an interactive educational
  game that will allow students to experience a wide array of real-world challenges
  that require a combination of team collaboration and the constant use of a series
  of process and content standards; and (2) introduce teachers to a form of
  professional development, Lesson Study, that promotes a cross-curricular team
  to collaboratively plan, teach, observe, and reflect on student engagement and
  interaction during the research lesson.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Contained in EDGAR (34 CFR 75.210). Contact the program office for more
  information.
84.206 JAVITS GIFTED AND TALENTED STUDENTS
EDUCATION GRANT PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
                                                                                   1127
