  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title V, Part D,        
  Subpart 6, 115 Stat. 1826; 20 U.S.C. 7253.                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide financial assistance to State and local educational agencies,            
  institutions of higher education, and other public and private agencies and         
  organizations, to stimulate research, development, training, and similar activities 
  designed to build a nationwide capability in elementary and secondary schools       
  to meet the special educational needs of gifted and talented students. To           
  supplement the use of State and local funds for the education of gifted and         
  talented students.                                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds may be used for: (1) The professional development of personnel involved       
  in the education of gifted and talented students, including training in equitable   
  teaching methods; (2) the establishment or identification of exemplary programs     
  serving gifted and talented students, including those for identifying and           
  educating students who might not be served by a traditional program; (3)            
  implementing innovative learning strategies; (4) encouraging the adaptation of      
  model gifted and talented programs for use by all students; (5) strengthening the   
  capability of State educational agencies to provide leadership and assistance to    
  local entities in the planning, operation, and improvement of programs; and (6)     
  research, technical assistance, and information dissemination.                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State and local education agencies, institutions of higher education, other public  
  and private agencies and organizations (including Indian tribes and                 
  organizations as defined by the Indian Self-Determination and Education             
  Assistance Act and Native Hawaiian organizations) may apply.                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State and local education agencies, institutions of higher education, other public  
  and private agencies, organizations, teachers and students benefit.                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State         
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions and       
  OMB Circular No. A-122 for private nonprofit organizations are applicable.          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Described in an application notice published in the Federal Register. Contact the   
  headquarters office listed below for application packages containing the

  announcement, application, and other forms.                                         
Award Procedure:

  The selection is competitive, based on staff and nonfederal review according to     
  the selection criteria contained in 34 CFR 700, Evaluation of Applications for      
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements.                                                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Will be announced in an application notice published in the Federal Register.       
  Contact the headquarters office for further information.                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately two to four months from the closing date.                             
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards are made annually. Following an initial, competitively selected award of     
  up to 12 months, 2-4 additional 1-year non-competing continuation awards may        
  be made, for a total maximum term of 3-5 years; subject to the availability of      
  funds.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made annually. Following an initial, competitively selected award of     
  up to 12 months, two to four additional 1-year non-competing continuation           
  awards may be made for a total of 3 - 5 years; subject to the availability of       
  funds.                                                                              
Reports:                                                                              
  Annual progress and financial reports as required by the Education Department       
  General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) 34 CFR 75 unless otherwise               
  required in the award document.                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
                                                                                      
1128                                                                            11-08

  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  As required by EDGAR, for direct grant program. Generally, records related to
  grant funds, compliance, and performance must be maintained for a period of
  five years after completion.
Account Identification:
  91-1000-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $7,596,000; FY 08 est $7,463,000; and FY 09 $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2008, the average new award is expected to be $441,000 and the average
  continuation award is expected to be $500,000. The range of new awards in FY
  2008 is expected to be $300,000 to $450,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The National Center for Research and Development in the Education of Gifted
  and Talented Children and Youth continued to receive funding. In addition, in
  FY 2008, 6 new grants and 6 continuation grants are expected to be awarded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Department of Education's General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR)
  34 CFR 74, 75, 77, 78, 79, and 80.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OESE, Jacob K. Javits Gifted and Talented Students
  Education 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Patricia
  Johnson, E-mail: patricia.johnson@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 260-7813.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/javits/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In 2005, the program began funding a joint effort of the Iowa Department of
  Education and the University of Iowa's Belin-Blank Center for Gifted Education
  to address gifted and talented students who have learning difficulties. Also in
  2005, the program began funding the Fremont County School District, in
  Arapaho, WY, in collabration with the Araphae Native American tribe to assist
  students in developing achievement methods and provide interventions that
  specifically target self-regulatory processes and artistic creative expression.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The criteria for the approval of proposals under this program are contained in 34
  CFR 700, Evaluation of Applications for Grants and Cooperative Agreements.
  The specific criteria to be used for a particular grant competition are selected
  from among those in 34 CFR 700, and announced in the application notice
  published in the Federal Register.
84.213 EVEN START-STATE EDUCATIONAL AGENCIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended; Title I, Part B, Subpart
  3. 20 U.S.C. 6362.
OBJECTIVES:
  To help break the cycle of poverty and illiteracy and improve the educational
  opportunities of low-income families, by integrating early childhood education,
  adult literacy or adult basic education, and parenting education into a unified
  family literacy program.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Subgrants are used for activities such as recruitment and screening of children
  and parents, design of programs, instruction of children and parents, support
  services, staff training, evaluation, and coordination with other programs. Funds
  may not be used for indirect costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State educational agencies (SEAs). The subgrantees are partnerships of a local
  educational agency (LEA) and a nonprofit community-based organization, a
  public agency other than an LEA, an institution of higher education or other
  public or private nonprofit organizations. Any of the latter, with demonstrated
  quality, may apply in collaboration with a LEA.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Parents eligible for participation under the Adult Education Act and their
  children aged birth through seven. Families must be in need of Even Start
  services, as indicated by a low income level and low level of adult literacy or
  English language proficiency, or other need-related indicators.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
