  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  State educational agencies submit State plans to the Department of Education in    
  accordance with requirements in the Elementary and Secondary Education Act         
  and guidance by the Department.                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Department of Education awards grants to SEAs based on their relative          
  shares of ESEA Title I, Part A funds. SEAs award subgrants giving priority to      
  proposals that target areas designated as empowerment zones or enterprise

  communities or that propose to serve families in other high-poverty areas.

Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  Deadlines for subgrantees are set by each SEA.                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Varies with each State.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Federal formula funds are awarded to SEAs annually. Subgrants are for up to        
  four years with annual renewals subject to approval of the SEA and the             
  availability of funds. After the subgrant ends, an applicant may reapply for a     
  new subgrant, but may not receive funds for longer than eight years.               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The Federal share of the cost of a subgrant project is not more than 90 percent in 
  the first year, 80 percent in the second year, 70 percent in the third year, 60    
  percent in the fourth year, and 50 percent in any subsequent year. Federal funds   
  are distributed to SEAs based on their relative shares of Title I, Part A of ESEA. 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Formula grants to SEAs are awarded on July 1. Funds are available for              
  obligation and expenditure for a total of 27 months. Subgrants may not exceed 4    
  years in duration.                                                                 
Reports:                                                                             
  Annual performance reports are required.                                           
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administrative                 
  Regulations in the Appendix to 34 CFR 80, State and local governments that         
  receive financial assistance of $100,000 or more within the State's fiscal year    
  shall have an audit made for that year. State and local governments that receive   
  between $25,000 and $100,000 within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit    
  made in accordance with the Appendix to Part 80, or in accordance with Federal     
  laws and regulations governing the programs in which they participate.             
Records:                                                                             
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education          
  Department General Administrative Regulations, certain project records must be     
  retained for three years.                                                          
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0900-0-1-501.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $82,282,760; FY 08 est $66,454,399; and FY 09 est $0.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  The estimated range of award is $305,690 - $7,213,753. The estimated average       
  is $1,175,732.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  An estimated 330 projects will be funded by States in 2008.                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  34 CFR 76 (except for 76.600-76.677), 77, 80-82, and 85; Education                 
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR). For more                    
  information, contact the program office.                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Department of Education, OESE Student Achievement and School                       
  Accountability 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington DC 20202-6132.                  
  Contact: Patricia McKee, E-mail: patricia.mckee@ed.gov. Telephone: (202)           
  260-0991.                                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/evenstartformula/index.html.                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  84.002, Adult Education - Basic Grants to States; 84.010, Title I Grants to Local  
  Educational Agencies; 84.011, Migrant Education_State Grant Program; 93.600,       
  Head Start.                                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Projects have included Project Even Start SPARK Plus in Accomack County,           
  Virginia, jointly operated by the Accomack County Public Schools and Eastern       
  Shore Community College. This project is designed to improve the literacy          
  levels of disadvantaged families through the provision of adult education,         
  parenting education, interactive literacy activities, and early childhood education
  for children ages 4-8. Time is provided for separate early childhood and adult     
  instruction, as well as joint family learning experiences. While the adults are    
  working toward career and education goals, the children are engaged in uses a      
  research-based curriculum. Parent-Child activities are hands-on activities         
  delivered through Eastern Shore College's acclaimed "Shore People Advancing

                                                                                11-08
  Readiness for Knowledge," also know as SPARKS.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  SEAs apply their own criteria to select subgrantees most likely to succeed in
  meeting the purpose of Even Start and in effectively implementing the program
  elements in Section 1205 and the requirements in Section 1208(a)(1) and (2),
  Part B, Title I of ESEA. SEAs must give priority to projects that target services
  to the neediest families or to projects that are located in areas designated as
  Empowerment Zones or Enterprise Communities under Public Law 103.66.
84.214 EVEN START-MIGRANT EDUCATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, Title I, Part B, 20 U.S.C.
  6362 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve the educational opportunities of migrant families through family
  literacy programs that integrate early childhood education, adult literacy or adult
  basic education, and parenting education.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are used for activities such as recruitment and screening of children and
  parents, design of programs, instruction for children and parents, staff training,
  support services, evaluation, and coordination with other programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any entity may apply. The Secretary specifically invites application from State
  educational agencies (SEAs) that administer migrant programs; local
  educational agencies (LEAs) that have a high percentage of migrant students;
  and nonprofit community- based organizations that work with migrant families.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Parents who are migratory agricultural workers or fishers and their children,
  from birth through age 7. Parents must also be eligible for participation under
  the Adult Education Act or be within the State's compulsory school attendance
  age range.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. The standard
  application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB
  Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Application forms are available from the Department of Education, Office of
  Migrant Education. Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance
  with the regulations, instructions, and forms included in the application package.
   The applications are reviewed and evaluated by a panel.
Award Procedure:
  A panel appointed by the Secretary reviews each State educational agency's
  application for the financial information required and evaluates the application
  on the basis of selection criteria published in the Federal Register. The Secretary
  makes awards based on applicant scores and migrant streams.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register. Contact the Department of
  Education for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately three months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Grants are awarded for four years, with annual renewals subject to satisfactory
  performance reports and the availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There is no statutory formula. The Federal share of the cost of a project is not
  more than 90 percent in the first year, 80 percent in the second, 70 percent in the
  third, and 60 percent in the fourth and final year.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants may be made for up to 48 months. Funds are awarded for a 12-month
  period from October 1 to September 30 of the following year. Renewals are
  subject to the availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  Annual performance report is required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administrative
  Regulations in the Appendix to 34 CFR 80, State and local governments that
                                                                                   1129
