  businesses by offering programs and providing research designed to meet the           
  international training needs of such businesses; and serve other faculty, students,   
  and institutions of higher education located within their respective regions. This    
  program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use a restricted          
  indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 75.563. For assistance call       
  the Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on 202-708-7770.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Accredited public and nonprofit private institutions of higher education, or          
  combinations of such institutions, that establish a center advisory council before    
  the date Federal assistance is received may apply. This council will conduct          
  extensive planning concerning the scope of the center's activities and the design     
  of its program prior to establishing the center.                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Students and faculty of accredited institutions of higher education will benefit.     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This             
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review          
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official              
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information    
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the   
  State has selected the program for review.                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Eligible institutions may submit proposals for funding of projects when the           
  announcement of a new competition appears in the Federal Register.                    
  Application forms and guidelines are available from the Center for International      
  Education. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-           
  110.                                                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Final recommendations are made to the Secretary of Education following advice         
  from a panel of consultants developed according to procedures defined by the          
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations.                              
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Deadlines for transmitting proposals are announced in the Federal Register.           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Approximately 150 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:

  Project period may last up to 48 months. Applicants submit performance reports

  for continuation funding according to instructions published by the Department.       
  Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  The Federal share of the cost of centers is: (a) Not more than 90 percent for the     
  first year in which Federal funds are furnished; (b) not more than 70 percent for     
  the second year; and (c) not more than 50 percent for the third year and              
  succeeding years. The nonfederal share for planning, establishing and operating       
  the center may be provided by in-cash or in-kind assistance.                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Grants are awarded for a up to 48 month period, subject to the availability of        
  funds.                                                                                
Reports:                                                                                
  Institutions must provide final reports upon completion of the program.               
  Financial reports are also required.                                                  
Audits:                                                                                 
  None.                                                                                 
Records:                                                                                
  All records supporting claims under grants or relating to accountability for          
  awarded funds must be available upon request for three years after close of the       
  fiscal year in which the grant was closed out or until the grantee is notified of the 
  completion of a Federal financial audit, whichever is later.                          
Account Identification:                                                                 
  91-0201-0-1-502.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $10,650,000; FY 08 $10,960,000; and FY 09 est $10,669,000.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $330,000 to $370,000; the          
  average award is $354,000.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  Thirty-one continuation grants are expected to be awarded in FY 2008.                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  34 CFR 74, 75, 77, and 85 (Education Department General Administrative

                                                                                        
  Regulations).

                                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.

                                                                                        
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                        
  International Education Programs Service, Office of Postsecondary Education,

                                                                                        
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-

                                                                                        
  5331. Contact: Susanna C. Easton. Telephone: (202) 502-7628. E-Mail:

                                                                                        
  Susanna.easton@ed.gov.

1132                                                                              11-08

Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpscibe/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.015, National Resource Centers Program for Foreign Language and Area
  Studies or Foreign Language and International Studies Program and Foreign
  Language and Area Studies Fellowship Program; 84.153, Business and
  International Education Projects.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects that support linkages among international business education, foreign
  language, and area studies programs at institutions of higher education perform
  research on issues to improve U.S. competitiveness and provide assistance to the
  business community on matters of international commerce. San Diego State
  University (SDSU) developed a very successful interdisciplinary international
  business undergraduate degree program. The SDSU CIBER enhanced this
  program through implementing the following activities: dual, transnational
  undergraduate degrees with Mexico, France, and Canada, developed internships,
  both abroad and domestic, developed business courses taught in target
  languages, enhanced study abroad programs, and developed courses in area
  studies. The CIBER also provides business training for liberal arts faculty as
  well as language training for the business community. The breadth and depth of
  the SDSU CIBER collaborative activities guarantee timely and wide
  dissemination of its programs and research. The University of Texas at Austin
  (UT-Austin) CIBER initiated several activities to globalize business education
  and research. UT-Austin CIBER developed comprehensive exchange academic
  programs in Latin America, created double degree programs, within UT- Austin
  and with a foreign university, created an MBA/MA degree in collaboration with
  the National Resource Centers on the UT-Austin campus. The Export Video
  Series for the business community created an International Trade Analysis
  Program and conducted several academic outreach programs for other
  institutions of higher education. UT-Austin CIBER collaborative activities
  demonstrates how the CIBER acts as a national and regional resource.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications for awards will be evaluated competitvely under selection criteria
  that includes: EDGAR (34 CFR 75.209 and 75.210) and (a) meeting the purpose
  of the authorizing statute (20 points), (b) significance (18 points), (c) quality of
  the project design (10 points), (d) quality of the management plan (10 points),
  (e) quality of project personnel (10 points), (f) quality of project services (2
  points), (g) adequacy of resources (10 points), and (h) quality of the project
  evaluation (20 points).
84.224 ASSISTIVE TECHNOLOGY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Assistive Technology Act of 1998, as amended, Public Law 105-394.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide States with financial assistance that supports programs designed to
  maximize the ability of individuals of all ages with disabilities and their family
  members, guardians, advocates, and authorized representatives to obtain
  assistive technology devices and assistive technology services.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants (Discretionary); Project Grants (Contracts);
  Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are awarded to carry out the functions authorized under the Act. States
  may provide assistance to Statewide community-based organizations or directly
  to individuals with disabilities of all ages. Technical assistance contracts support
  States and other entities. This program is subject to non-supplanting
  requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced
  under 34 CFR 76.563. For assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial
  Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, including the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and outlying areas may
  apply. Applicants are designated by Governors.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals with disabilities, States, and community-based organizations
  providing services to individuals with disabilities will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions also
  applies.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
