Application Procedure:                                                              
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110. Unless       
  otherwise directed in the Federal Register Announcement, applications should      
  be submitted to the Department of Education, Application Control Center, 400      
  Maryland Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20202.                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  State plans are reviewed by Department of Education staff.                        
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact the Headquarters Office for further information.                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Annual formula grants.                                                            
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual progress reports, expenditure reports, and quarterly cash reports.         
Audits:

                                                                                    
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                    
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,

                                                                                    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                    
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                    
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  Recordkeeping requirements and regulations are included in the statute.

                                                                                    
Account Identification:

                                                                                    
  91-0301-0-1-506.

                                                                                    
Obligations:

                                                                                    
  (Grants) FY 07 $26,111,000; FY 08 est $25,655,000; and FY 09 est

                                                                                    
  $25,655,000.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  None.                                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  All States and outlying areas particpate in the program.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                    
  Contact the Program Office for information.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                    
  Department of Education, OSERS Rehabilitation Services Administration, 400

                                                                                    
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-2500. Contact: Rob Groenendaal.

                                                                                    
  Telephone: 202-245-7393. E-mail Address: rob.groenendaal@ed.gov.

                                                                                    
Web Site Address:

                                                                                    
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/osers/nidrr/index.html.

RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  84.126, Rehabilitation Services_Vocational Rehabilitation Grants to States.       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  The Assistive Technology State grants supports state efforts to improve the       
  provision of assistive technology to individuals with disabilities of all ages    
  through comprehensive, statewide programs that are consumer responsive. The       
  purpose of these programs is to make assistive technology devices and services    
  more available and accessible to individuals with disabilities and their families.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Criteria are included in the regulations. Contact the Program Office for more     
  information.                                                                      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
84.229 LANGUAGE RESOURCE CENTERS                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
  EDUCATION                                                                         
                                                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                    
  Higher Education Act, Title VI, Part A, Section 603, as amended.

OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To improve the Nation's capacity to teach and learn foreign languages effectively 
  by supporting the establishment, strengthening, and operation of language         
                                                                                    
  resource centers at institutions of higher education.

                                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                    
  Project Grants; Project Grants (Contracts).

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funds may be used to carry out activities to improve the teaching and learning of 
  foreign languages. These activities may include: (a) The conduct and              
  dissemination of research on new and improved methods for teaching foreign        
                                                                                    
  languages, including the use of advanced educational technology; (b) the

                                                                                    
  development and dissemination of new materials for teaching foreign languages

                                                                                    


                                                                               11-08
  to reflect the results of research on effective teaching strategies; (c) the
  development, application and dissemination of performance testing that is
  appropriate for use in an educational setting to be used as a standard
  measurement of skill levels in foreign language; (d) the training of teachers in
  the administration and interpretation of foreign language performance tests, the
  use of effective teaching strategies and the use of new technologies; (e) the
  publication of instructional materials in the less commonly taught foreign
  languages; and (f) the widespread dissemination of research results, teaching
  materials, and improved pedagogical strategies to the postsecondary education
  community. Equipment costs may not exceed 15 percent of the grant total.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Accredited American institutions of higher education or combinations of such
  institutions may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Institutions of higher education or combinations of such institutions and
  individuals will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Eligible institutions may submit applications for funding when the
  announcement of a new competition is issued in the Federal Register.
  Application forms and guidelines for the submission of applications are
  available from the Advanced Training and Research Team. This program is
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Final recommendations are made to the Secretary following advice from a panel
  of consultants.
Deadlines:
  Official deadline will be announced in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Higher education institutions selected to receive funds for the four year phased
  program may submit annual performance reports for the continuation of support.
  Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for up to a 48-month period. Continuation awards are
  subject to the submission of satisfactory progress reports and are subject to the
  availability of funds.
Reports:
  Funded centers must provide final reports upon completion of the 48 month
  program.
Audits:
  All fiscal records will be subject to audit by the Department of Education at any
  time within three years after expiration of the grants.
Records:
  All records supporting claims under grants or relating to the accountability for
  awarded funds must be available upon request: (1) For 3 years after close of the
  fiscal year in which the grant expired or (2) until the grantee is notified of the
  completion of the Federal financial audit, whichever is later.
Account Identification:
  91-0201-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,893,816; FY 08 est $4,875,000; and FY 09 est $5,950,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $300,000 to $400,000; the
  average award is expected to be $353,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Fifteen continuation grants are expected to be awarded in FY 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  34 CFR 655 and 669, and the Education Department General Administrative
  Regulations.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  International Education Programs Service, Office of Postsecondary Education,
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC
  20202-5331. Contact: G. Edward McDermott, E-mail: ed.mcdermott@ed.gov.
  Telephone: (202) 502-7636.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/iegpslrc/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.015, National Resource Centers Program for Foreign Language and Area
  Studies or Foreign Language and International Studies Program and Foreign
                                                                                 1133
