  Language and Area Studies Fellowship Program; 84.016, Undergraduate                 
  International Studies and Foreign Language Programs; 84.017, International          
  Research and Studies; 84.018, Overseas Programs_Special Bilateral Projects;         
  84.019, Overseas Programs - Faculty Research Abroad; 84.021, Overseas               
  Programs - Group Projects Abroad; 84.022, Overseas Programs - Doctoral              
  Dissertation Research Abroad; 84.153, Business and International Education          
  Projects; 84.220, Centers for International Business Education.                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  (1) The Georgetown University/Center for Applied Linguistics, George                
  Washington University National Capital Foreign Language Resource Center, is         
  continuing its research and training activities, building upon achievements made    
  during the last funding cycle. The School of Languages and Linguistics at           
  Georgetown serves as a field site for some research activities, as do local school  
  systems in Maryland and Virginia. The Center is training teachers in the            
  administration and interpretation of foreign language performance tests; training   
  teachers in foreign language teaching and learning strategies; training teachers in 
  the use of technology in foreign language teaching; conducting foreign language     
  learning strategy research; and developing foreign language tests. (2) San Diego    
  State University's Language Acquisition Resource Center (LARC) is building          
  upon the foundation laid in the first cycle of Federal funding by continuing        
  research and development in the areas of language testing, strategies for teaching  
  and learning languages, and advanced uses of technology. LARC has shifted its       
  focus during the second funding cycle to the development and implementation         
  of a national training model that incorporates previous research and                
  development. The training is designed to impact language instruction in K-12        
  and postsecondary institutions. During this cycle, LARC is: Developing a            
  national model of language teacher training; conducting research, development       
  and training in alternative language testing; developing and training educators in  
  effective strategies for teaching and learning languages; and training educators    
  in strategies for integrating technology into language curricula. (3) The           
  University of Hawaii is also building on the existing structure and                 
  accomplishments of the currently funded Center. Although the Center focuses         
  particularly on languages of Asia and the Pacific in its training, curriculum, and  
  research activities, it also includes German, Russian, and other European           
  languages in its efforts. The Center is organized around six component areas:       
  pedagogy and psycholinguistics; sociolinguistics and cross-cultural pragmatics;     
  materials and methods development; language testing; technology and                 
  telecommunications; and resource provision for foreign language researchers.        
  Projects at the Center are carried out by a project team and generally cut across   
  areas of emphasis, including several of the components listed above. The            
  following types of programs are currently underway: National Foreign Language       
  Fellows; A program of National Foreign Language Interns; Dissemination of           
  materials and research results, including print, video/audio, and electronic        
                                                                                      
  media; A series of summer institutes in teacher training and materials

                                                                                      
  preparation; and Research and materials development projects.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  34 CFR 655.31(a)-(e), 669.21 and 669.22 apply to the Language Resource

                                                                                      
  Centers Program. Contact the program office for additional information.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
84.234 PROJECTS WITH INDUSTRY                                                         
   (PWI)                                                                              
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,                            
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title VI, Part A.                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To create and expand job and career opportunities for individuals with              
  disabilities in the competitive labor market by partnering with private industry to 
  provide job training and placement, and career advancement services.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds may be used to support projects to prepare persons with disabilities for      
  employment in the competitive labor market. Any industrial, business, or            
  commercial enterprise; labor union employer; community rehabilitation program       
  provider; trade association; Indian tribe or tribal organization; designated State  
  unit; or other agency or organization with the capacity to create and expand job    
  opportunities for individuals with disabilities.                                    
                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

  Projects with Industry grants are awarded to employers, labor unions, profit        
  making and nonprofit organizations, institutions, and State vocational              
  rehabilitation agencies. Grants cannot be made directly to individuals. Only        
  applicants that propose to serve a geographic area that is currently unserved or    
  underserved by the PWI program can receive new awards under this program.           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  An individual is eligible for services under this program if the individual to be   
                                                                                      
  served is an individual with a disability or an individual with a significant



1134                                                                            11-08

  disability, as defined in Sections 7 (20)(A) and 7(21)(A), respectively, of the
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended. In making this determination, the State
  vocational rehabilitation unit shall rely on the determination made by the
  recipient of the grant under which the services are provided, to the extent that
  the determination is appropriate, available, and consistent with the requirements
  of the Act.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions. Cost will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-102. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applications should be submitted to the Department of Education, Application
  Control Center, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202. The
  standard application kit as furnished by the Federal agency and required by
  OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. Department of
  Education No. 80-0013 must also be submitted.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made on approval of the Commissioner, RSA, and the Assistant
  Secretary, OSERS, for new projects, and the Commissioner, RSA, for
  continuation projects.
Deadlines:
  Contact the program manager at the headquarters office for application
  deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range is approximately 150 to 180 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Projects with multi-year project periods may be continued based on annual
  review of accomplishments, compliance indicators and availability of adequate
  funds. Renewals are available only through the continuation application
  process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share may not exceed 80 percent of total project cost.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project support may be available up to 60 months.
Reports:
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations
  (EDGAR) for direct grant programs (34 CFR 76). Annual financial reports,
  compliance indicator data and reports of progress must be submitted as required
  by the grant award terms and conditions.
Audits:
  Audits must be conducted on a continuing basis or at scheduled intervals. In
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  As required by EDGAR for direct grant programs (34 CFR 75). Generally,
  records related to grant fund, compliance, and performance must be maintained
  for a period of five years after completion.
Account Identification:
  91-0301-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $17,293,000; FY 08 est $19,197,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In fiscal year 2008, the estimated range of awards is $250,000 to $350,000, with
  an average award of $300,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2008, an estimated 63 projects will be funded. In FY 2007, PWI
  projects placed over 5,000 individuals with disabilities in competitive
  employment.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations: (A) Education Department General Administrative Regulations
  (EDGAR) in 34 CFR 74, 75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86; and (B) the
  regulations for this program in 34 CFR 369 and 379 apply.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
