  Federal funds are used to support a system in each State to protect the legal and    
  human rights of individuals with disabilities who need services that are beyond      
  the scope of the Client Assistance Program (CAP) under Section 112 of the            
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973 (the Act) and are ineligible for the protection and       
  advocacy programs under Part C of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance          
  and Bill of Rights Act (DDA) and the Protection and Advocacy for Individuals         
  with Mental Illness Act of 1986 (PAIMI) or who need services that are not            
  available from CAP, DDA, or PAIMI.                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Only designated protection and advocacy agencies in each State and Territory         
  may apply. The Governor designates the protection and advocacy agency.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Individuals with disabilities will benefit.                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State          
  and local governments.                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required       
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is             
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal

  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the      
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the

  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected  
  this program for review.                                                             
                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

  Any application for a grant must contain assurances that the eligible protection     
  and advocacy system will: (1) have in effect a system to protect and advocate        
  for the rights of eligible individuals with disabilities; (2) have the same general  
  authorities as outlined in Part C of the DDA Act; (3) have the authority to pursue   
                                                                                       
  legal, administrative, and other appropriate remedies to ensure the protection of

                                                                                       
  the rights of individuals with disabilities; (4) provide information and referral

                                                                                       
  services to individuals with disabilities in the State; (5) develop a priorities and

                                                                                       
  objectives statement each year; (6) seek public comment about their proposed

                                                                                       
  priorities and objectives statement; (7) establish a grievance procedure for

                                                                                       
  clients and prospective clients of the eligible protection and advocacy system;

                                                                                       
  (8) use the funds available for this program to supplement nonfederal funds that

                                                                                       
  would otherwise be available for this purpose; and (9) utilize, to the maximum

                                                                                       
  extent possible, mediation and other alternative dispute resolution procedures

                                                                                       
  before resorting to formal administrative or legal remedies.

                                                                                       
Award Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Once the applications have been approved, awards are made on the basis of the

                                                                                       
  relative population of each State. The minimum allotment is $100,000 for States

                                                                                       
  and $50,000 for Territories.

                                                                                       
Deadlines:

                                                                                       
  Contact the headquarters office, RSA, for application deadlines.

                                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Not applicable.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                               
  The State may appeal to the Office of Administrative Law Judges.                     
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Annual formula grants.                                                               
Reports:                                                                               
  A report describing the types of services and activities being undertaken by         
  programs funded under the program, the total number of individuals served, the       
  types of disabilities represented by such individuals, and the types of issues       
  being addressed on behalf of such individuals.                                       
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,         
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  Final records must be maintained for 3 years after the grant ends or until all       
  audit questions are resolved.                                                        
Account Identification:                                                                
  91-0301-0-1-506.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $16,489,000; FY 08 est $16,201,000; and FY 09 est                     
  $16,201,000.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  The range of awards is approximately $160,311 - $1,663,983 in FY 08.                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  About 71,300 individuals were served during FY 07.                                   


1136                                                                             11-08

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The regulations were published at 34 CFR 381.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OSERS Rehabilitation Services Administration 400
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-2500. Contact: James Billy, E-
  mail: james.billy@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7273.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/rsapair/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.161, Rehabilitation Services_Client Assistance Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Eligible systems have pursued legal, administrative, and other appropriate
  remedies or approaches to protect and advocate for the rights of individuals with
  disabilities. Protection and advocacy systems may be housed in public or private
  entities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
84.243 TECH-PREP EDUCATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF VOCATIONAL AND ADULT EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006, Title II, Public
  Law 109-270, 20 U.S.C. 2373.
OBJECTIVES:
  This program provides assistance to states to awrd grants to consortia of local
  agencies and postsecondary education institutions for the development and
  operation ofprograms consisting of the last two years of secondary education and
  at least two years of postsecondary education, designed to provide Tech Prep
  education to the student leading to an associate degree or a two-year certificate.
  The program also is designed to strengthen links between secondary and
  postsecondary schools.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants (Contracts).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  States must award program funds to consortia of local agencies and
  postsecondary education institutions. Consortia must implement tech-prep
  programs that have seven elements: (1) an articulation agreement between
  secondary and postsecondary consortium participants; (2) a two-plus-two or a
  four-plus-two (only four- or six-year programs are authorized) design with a
  common core of proficiency in math, science, communication, and technology;
  (3) a specifically developed Tech Pep curriculum; (4) joint in-service training of
  secondary and postsecondary teachers to implement the Tech Prep curriculum
  effectively; (5) training of counselors to recruit students and to ensure program
  completion and appropriate employment; (6) equal access for special
  populations to the full range of Tech Prep programs; and (7) preparatory
  services. This program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use
  a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 76-564-76.569.
  For assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Costs Group
  on (202) 708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Department of Education makes formula grants to State agencies. Eligible
  recipients for subgrants are consortia of local educational agencies, intermediate
  education agencies or area vocational education schools serving secondary
  school students, or secondary schools funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
  and nonprofit and proprietary institutions of higher education which offer a 2-
  year associate degree program, and which are qualified as institutions of higher
  education pursuant to Section 481(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965,
  including institutions receiving assistance under the Tribally Controlled
  Community College Assistance Act of 1978, or a two-year apprenticeship
  program that follows secondary instruction, if such institutions are not subject to
  a default management plan required by the Secretary of Education.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals desiring to participate in a combined secondary/postsecondary
  program leading to a postsecondary degree or 2-year certificate with technical
  preparation in at least one field of engineering, applied science, mechanical,
  industrial, or practical art or trade, or agriculture, health, or business.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The establishment of a State Board for vocational education, and a State
  occupational information coordinating committee is required. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local
  governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A 5-year State plan for vocational education must be prepared with active
  participation of the State Council on Vocational Education. Annual revisions
  may be submitted as necessary. State plans are subject to public hearings. This
