AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title I, Part C.                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide vocational rehabilitation services to American Indians with             
  disabilities that reside on Federal or State reservations in order to prepare them 
  for suitable employment.                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Projects provide financial assistance for the establishment and operation of tribal
  vocational rehabilitation service projects for American Indians with disabilities  
  residing on reservations.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Governing bodies of Indian tribes or consortia of those governing bodies on        
  Federal and State reservations may apply.                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  American Indians with disabilities residing on or near a Federal or State          
  reservation (including Native Alaskans) and meet the definition of an individual   
  with a disability in Section 7 (8) (A) of the Rehabilitation Act.                  
Credentials/Documentation:

  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State

  and local governments.

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. The standard              
  application form as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB            
  Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program.                                  
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applications should be submitted to the Department of Education, 400               
  Maryland Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20202. This program is subject to the         
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Awards are made on approval of the Commissioner of Rehabilitation Services         
  and the Assistant Secretary, OSERS, for new projects and the Commissioner of       
  Rehabilitation Services for continuation projects.                                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact headquarters or regional offices for application deadlines.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The range is approximately 90 to 120 days.                                         
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Projects with multi-year project periods may be continued based on an annual       
  review of accomplishments and availability of adequate funds.                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Projects generally require ten percent matching in cash or in-kind.                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project support is available for up to 5 years.

                                                                                     
Reports:

                                                                                     
  Annual financial reports and progress reports must be submitted as prescribed by

                                                                                     
  grant award terms and conditions.

                                                                                     
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                     
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                     
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                     
Records:                                                                             
  Case records are for individual clients. Fiscal records are prescribed for audit

                                                                                     
  purposes. Retention of records are required for three years.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  91-0301-0-1-506.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  (Grants) FY 07 $33,444,000; FY 08 est $34,892,000; and FY 09 est

                                                                                     
  $34,892,000.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  In FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $280,000 to $1,959,086, with     
  an average award of about $467,000.                                                
                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  In FY 2007, about 1,500 American Indians with disabilities achieved an             
  employment outcome.                                                                
                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) in 34              
  CFR 75, 77, 80, 81, 82, and 85. Vocational Rehabilitations Service Projects for    
                                                                                     
  American Indians with Disabilities regulations 34 CFR 371.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  Not applicable.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                     
  Department of Education, OSERS Rehabilitation Services Administration, 400

                                                                                     
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-2500. Contact: Alfreda Reeves,



                                                                                11-08
  E-mail: alfreda.reeves@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7485.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/osers/rsa/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.126, Rehabilitation Services_Vocational Rehabilitation Grants to States.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects provide a range of vocational rehabilitation service comparable to those
  provided by the State Vocational Rehabilitation Services program, such as
  counseling, vocational training, mental and physical restoration and job
  placement. Projects have demonstrated improvements in the provision of
  services by implementing management systems, data collection models, and the
  utilization of service codes comparable to those by State rehabilitation agencies.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The availability of funds is published in the Federal Register. Applications for
  discretionary grants are subject to peer review procedures by Federal and
  nonfederal experts that lead to recommendations for approval or disapproval.
  Criteria include plan of operation, quality of key personnel, budget and cost-
  effectiveness, evaluation plan, adequacy of resources, and evidence of need.
  These criteria are published in the program regulations at 34 CFR 371.
84.256 FREELY ASSOCIATED STATES-EDUCATION
GRANT PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended, Title I, Part A, Section
  1121 (a), (b) and (c), 20 U.S.C. 6331.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support activities consistent with the purposes of the Elementary and
  Secondary Education Act, including teacher training, curriculum development,
  instructional materials or general school improvement and school reform, and
  direct educational services..
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for activities consistent with the purposes of the Elementary
  and Secondary Education Act.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Local educational agencies (LEA) in the Republic of Palau and in the outlying
  areas (American Samoa, Guam, the commonwealth of the Northern Mariana
  Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Local educational agencies in the Republic of Palau and in the outlying areas
  (American Samao, Guam, the commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,
  the U.S. Virgin Islands).
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Provided by the Pacific Resources for Education and Learning (PREL). This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Section 1121 of Title I requires that the Department reserve up to $5 million
  from Title I Grants to LEA funds each fiscal year for competitive grants to local
  educational agencies in the outlying ares (American Samoa, Guam, the
  commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the U.S. Virgin Islands), and
  the Republic of Palau. Of this amount, the Secretary may reserve 5 percent to
  pay the administrative costs of the Pacific Resources for Education and Learning
  (PREL) regarding activities assisted under this program. PREL conducts the
  award competition and makes recommendations to the Secretary regarding the
  award of grants.
Award Procedure:
  Applications for continuations are submitted to the Department of Education,
  Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, School Support and Technology
   Programs, Washington, DC. PREL conducts the competition for grants and
  submits recommendations of applications for funding to the Secretary of
  Education. The Secretary awards grants taking into consideration the
  recommendations of PREL.
Deadlines:
  Determined according to grant competition schedule. Contact the program office
  for information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Continuation awards of 12 months each may be made for a total of 36 months.
  Continuations are contingent upon evidence of satisfactory progress toward
  goals and objectives and subject to the availability of funds.
                                                                                 1139
