REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  34 CFR Part 75.                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Education, OVAE Division of High School, Postsecondary and            
  Career Education 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-7242.                
  Contact: Nancy Essey. E-mail: nancy.essey@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-             
  7789.                                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/ctenhvep/index.html.                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  84.048, Career and Technical Education -- Basic Grants to States.                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  In the past, program funds have supported a forestry and wood trades project on     
  the island of Hawaii, an aquaculture (fish growing in ancient, reclaimed ponds)     
  project on the Island of Molokai, a small business ownership project for adults     
  and a mushroom growing project in a high school on the Island of Oahu,              
  community college guidance and counseling throughout the Islands, and an            
  entrepreneurship project for learning disabled and emotionally challenged           
  teenagers have been funded with one grant awarded to ALU LIKE, Inc.                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The following criteria are used in reviewing applications. A segment or             
  segments of an application should address each criterion. Points are awarded to     
  the extent that evidence in the application satisfies each criterion: (A) Program   
  design; (B) management plan; (C) key personnel; (D) evaluation plan; and (E)        
  budget and cost-effectiveness.                                                      
                                                                                      
84.263 REHABILITATION TRAINING-EXPERIMENTAL                                           
                                                                                      
AND INNOVATIVE TRAINING                                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,                            
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title III, Section 302, 29 U.S.C. 774.      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  This program is designed to: (a) Develop new types of training programs for         
  rehabilitation personnel and to demonstrate the effectiveness of these new types    
  of training programs for rehabilitation personnel in providing rehabilitation       
  services to individuals with disabilities; and (b) develop new and improved         
  methods of training rehabilitation personnel so that there may be a more            
  effective delivery of rehabilitation services by State and other rehabilitation     
  agencies.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Training grants are provided in fields directly related to the vocational and       
  independent living rehabilitation of individuals with disabilities.                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State vocational rehabilitation agencies, including Territories and other public or 
  nonprofit agencies and organizations (including institutions of higher education)   
  may apply.                                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Individuals preparing for or employed in positions relating to the rehabilitation   
  of individuals with disabilities will benefit.                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  An application should show evidence of current accreditation by or seeking of       
  accreditation from the designated accreditation agency in the respective            
  professional field. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular        
  No. A-87 for State and local governments. Costs will be determined in               
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions.                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required      
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is            
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal        
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the 
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected 
  the program for review.                                                             
Application Procedure:

  New applications are made to the Department of Education, Application Control       
  Center, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202-4725. Attention:            
  84.263. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.

Award Procedure:                                                                      
  New and continuation grants are awarded by the Rehabilitation Services              
  Administration. All new applications are reviewed by a panel of at least three      
  individuals. Each panel will include nonfederal consultants with experience and     
  training in the proposed area of training.                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            


1142                                                                            11-08

  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register or you may contact the program
  office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 120 to 160 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are available only through the new application process. Projects with
  an approved multi-year project period may be continued based on the
  availability of adequate funds and an annual review of accomplishments to
  determine satisfactory performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grantees are required to share in the costs of projects with the proportion subject
  to individual negotiation.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects may generally be supported for a maximum of 5 years. Funds are
  granted on a 12-month basis. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.
Reports:
  Annual financial and progress reports must be submitted as required by grant
  award terms and conditions.
Audits:
  Audits must be conducted on a continuing basis or at scheduled intervals,
  usually once a year, but at least once every 2 years. In accordance with the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Proper records must be maintained as required by the Education Department
  General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) or until all audit questions are
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  91-0301-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $500,000; and FY 09 est $500,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Average $125,000 in FY 08.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  A wide variety of strategies to develop new and improved methods of training
  rehabilitation personnel to support the effective delivery of rehabilitation
  services are being funded. Curriculum development efforts address adaptive
  technology training, computer-based learning, use of natural supports at the
  work site, and interdisciplinary instruction for dentistry professionals on
  rehabilitation and the needs of individuals with disabilities.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations can be found in 34 CFR 385 and 387.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Rehabilitation Services Administration, Office of Special Education and
  Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education, Washington, DC 20202-
  2649. Contact: Ruth Brannon. E-mail: ruth.brannon@ed.gov. Telephone:
  (202) 245-7278.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/offices/OSERS/RSA.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.126, Rehabilitation Services_Vocational Rehabilitation Grants to States.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) An innovative model for rehabilitation engineering technology training; (2) a
  competency-based individualized training project using interactive videodisc
  technology training; and (3) a computer-based training program for
  rehabilitation professionals in the areas of head injury rehabilitation and
  supported employment.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The relevance of the content of the training to the mission of the public
  rehabilitation program and priorities for projects are in the application notice.
  Criteria for evaluating applications are published in program regulations 34 CFR
  385 and 387.
84.264 REHABILITATION TRAINING-CONTINUING
EDUCATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, Title III, Section 302, as amended, 29 U.S.C. 774.
OBJECTIVES:
