  To support training centers that serve either a Federal region or another           
  geographical area and provide for a broad integrated sequence of training           
  activities that focus on meeting recurrent and common training needs of             
  employed rehabilitation personnel throughout a multi-State geographical area.       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Training grants are limited to support of continuing education programs for         
  personnel such as rehabilitation counselors, administrators, independent living     
  specialists, audiologists, rehabilitation teachers for individuals who are blind,   
  rehabilitation technology specialists who provide vocational, independent living,   
  and client assistance services to individuals with disabilities.                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Institutions of higher education, State vocational rehabilitation agencies          
  (including territories), and other public or nonprofit agencies and organizations.  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Individuals employed in positions related to the rehabilitation of individuals      
  with disabilities will benefit.                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State         
  and local governments. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB              
  Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions.                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required      
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is            
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal        
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the

  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected 
  the program for review.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

  New applications are made to the Department of Education, Application Control       
  Center, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202-4725. Attn:                 
  84.264. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  New and continuation grants are awarded by the Rehabilitation Services              
  Administration. All new applications are reviewed by a panel of at least three      
  individuals. Each panel will include nonfederal consultants with experience and     
  training in the proposed area of training.                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office for     
  application deadlines.                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 120 to 160 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals are available only through the new application process. Projects with      
  an approved multi-year project period may be continued based on the                 
  availability of adequate funds and an annual review of accomplishments to           
  determine satisfactory performance.                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Grantees are required to share in the cost of projects with the proportion subject  
  to individual negotiation.                                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Projects may be supported for a maximum of 5 years, 12-month budget periods.        
  Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.                                  
Reports:                                                                              
  Annual financial and progress reports must be submitted as required by grant        
  award terms and conditions.                                                         
Audits:                                                                               
  Audits must be conducted on a continuing basis or at scheduled intervals,           
  usually once a year, but at least once every 2 years. Institutions of higher        
  education and nonprofit organizations are subject to the audit requirements of      
  OMB Circular No. A-133. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular           
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and       
  Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of   
  $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program- specific        
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than            
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements        
  for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                               
Records:                                                                              
  Proper records must be maintained as required by the Education Department           
  General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) or until all audit questions are         
  resolved.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-0301-0-1-506.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $10,071,000; FY 08 est $8,090,000; and FY 09 est $8,090,000.         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            


                                                                                11-08 
  Competition in FY 08 ranges from $711,000 to $969,000 for each 12 month
  period.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Training by the projects addressed rehabilitation staff training needs in human
  resource development, independent living rehabilitation, management of
  rehabilitation facilities, and supported employment.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations can be found in 34 CFR 385 and 389.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Rehabilitation Services Administration, Office of Special Education and
  Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W.,
  Washington, DC 20202-2649. Contact: Ruth Brannon, Telephone: (202) 245-
  7278.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/offices/OSERS/RSA.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.126, Rehabilitation Services_Vocational Rehabilitation Grants to States.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  RCEPs provide training for State agency staff and for the staffs of related public
  and private nonprofit rehabilitation agencies.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The relevance of the content of the training to the mission of the public
  rehabilitation program and priorities for projects in the application notice are
  considered. Criteria for evaluating applications are published in program
  regulations 34 CFR 385 and 389.
84.265 REHABILITATION TRAINING-STATE
VOCATIONAL REHABILITATION UNIT IN-SERVICE
TRAINING
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title III, Section 302(g)(3), 29 U.S.C.
  774.
OBJECTIVES:
  This program is designed to support special projects for training State vocational
  rehabilitation unit personnel in program areas essential to the effective
  management of the unit's program of vocational rehabilitation services or in skill
  areas that enable staff personnel to improve their abilities to provide vocational
  rehabilitation services to individuals with disabilities. Projects are designed to:
  (1) address recruitment and retention of qualified rehabilitation professionals;
  (2) provide for successful planning; (3) provide for leadership development and
  capacity building; and (4) provide training on the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as
  amended.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Training grants may only be made to agencies designated to administer the State
  vocational rehabilitation program. Fifteen percent of the funds appropriated for
  the Rehabilitation Services Administration Training program must be allocated
  for In-Service Training.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State vocational rehabilitation agencies, including territories, may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals employed by designated State rehabilitation agencies will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  New applications are made to the Department of Education, Application Control
  center, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20200-4725. Attn:
  84.265. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are awarded by the Rehabilitation Services Administration. All new
  applications are reviewed by a panel of at least three individuals. Each panel will
  include nonfederal consultants with experience and training in the proposed area
  of training.
Deadlines:
                                                                                  1143
