  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register; contact the program office for      
  application deadlines and other information.                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 120 to 160 days.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Renewals are available only through the new application process. Projects with       
  an approved multi-year project period may be continued based on the                  
  availability of adequate funds and an annual review of accomplishments to            
  determine satisfactory performance.                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Grantees are required to share ten percent of the cost of projects.                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Projects may generally be supported for a maximum of 5 years, with 12-month          
  budget periods. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.                   
Reports:                                                                               
  Annual financial and progress reports must be submitted as required by grant         
  award terms and conditions.                                                          
Audits:                                                                                
  Audits must be conducted on a continuing basis or at scheduled intervals,            
  usually once a year, but at least once every 2 years. In accordance with the         
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of            
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities         
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have     
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities    
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal      
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.             
Records:                                                                               
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations           
  (EDGAR).                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                                
  91-0301-0-1-506.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $5,766,000; FY 08 est $5,766,000; FY 09 est             
  $5,766,000.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $18,883 to $301,553 for basic awards; $20,881 to $109,784 for quality awards         
  in FY 08.                                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  State vocational rehabilitation agencies employ more than 25,000 individuals. It

                                                                                       
  is estimated that more than 13,000 individuals participated in one or more

                                                                                       
  activities sponsored under the State VR Unit In-Service Training Program in FY       
  07. Agencies reported that special emphasis was given to training staff on           
  human resource development and on providing rehabilitation services to               
  underserved populations.                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Regulations can be found in 34 CFR 385 and 388.

                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Headquarters Office:

  Rehabilitation Services Administration, Office of Special Education and              
  Rehabilitative Services, Department of Education, Washington, DC 20202-              
  2649. Contact: Ruth Brannon, Telephone: (202) 245-7278.                              
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ed.gov/offices/OSERS/RSA.                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  84.126, Rehabilitation Services_Vocational Rehabilitation Grants to States.          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The relevance of the content of the training to the mission of the public            
  rehabilitation program is considered. Priorities for certain projects are stated in  
  the application notice. Criteria for evaluating applications are published in        
  program regulations 34 CFR 385 and 388.                                              
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
84.268 FEDERAL DIRECT STUDENT LOANS                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  FEDERAL STUDENT AID, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part D, as amended.                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide loan capital directly from the Federal government (rather than            
  through private lenders) to vocational, undergraduate, and graduate                  
  postsecondary school students and their parents.                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Loans.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  To help defray costs of education at a participating school. Repayment on            
  Federal Stafford loans begins six months after the student ceases to carry at least  


1144                                                                             11-08

  one-half the normal full-time academic workload. Repayment of principal and
  interest on PLUS loans generally begins within 60 days of disbursement of the
  last installment, repayment of a consolidation loan begins within 60 days after
  the proceeds of the loan have been used to discharge the liability of the
  borrower on the loans selected for consolidation. Deferments and forbearance of
  payment may be granted for certain authorized periods.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The applicant must be a U.S. citizen, national, or person in the United States for
  other than a temporary purpose. A student borrower must be enrolled or
  accepted for enrollment in a degree or certificate program on at least a half-time
  basis as an undergraduate, graduate, or professional student at a participating
  postsecondary school. An otherwise eligible student is eligible for loans during
  a single twelve-month period in which the student is enrolled in a non-
  degree/non-certificate course of study that the school has determined is
  necessary in order for the student to enroll in a program leading to a degree or
  certificate. Under the Direct PLUS program, parents may borrow for dependent
  students. Also, graduate and professional students are eligible to borrow PLUS
  Loans. Direct Unsubsidized and PLUS loans are non-need based programs. In
  order to receive a Direct Subsidized Loan, all borrowers must undergo a
  financial need analysis to determine eligibility for Federal interest. A student that
  is presently enrolled at a participating institution must be maintaining
  satisfactory academic progress in the course of study that they are pursuing. The
  borrower may not owe a refund on any Title IV grant or be in default on any
  Title IV loan received for attendance at any school. The borrower must also file a
  Statement of Registration compliance (Selective Service). Borrowers that are
  unable to obtain consolidation loans from lenders under FFEL or who are unable
  to obtain a consolidation loan with income sensitive repayment terms acceptable
  to the borrower from a lender, shall be eligible for a Direct Consolidation Loan.
  Married couples may consolidate eligible loans.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Vocational, undergraduate, and graduate postsecondary school students and their
  parents.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The borrower will need certification of eligibility from the school and may be
  required to supply documentation to verify the accuracy of data used in the
  Direct Subsidized loan need analysis.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Information regarding application procedures may be obtained from the school
  and the Department of Education. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-102. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications for the Direct Subsidized and Unsubsidized loans are obtained
  from the school. Direct consolidation loan applications are obtained from the
  Department of Education. To obtain a Direct Subsidized or Unsubsidized loan,
  a student shall complete and submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid
  (FAFSA). All applications (with the exception of PLUS) for Direct Loans are
  processed by the Central Processor System (CPS) in the initial step to determine
  a student's Title IV eligibility. Schools will receive official output from CPS.
  Withthe school will be able to assemble a financial aid award package. A school
  participating in the Direct Loan program may award Direct Loans as part of the
  financial aid package. If a Direct Loan is not included in the aid package, a
  student may contact the school to request loan information.
Award Procedure:
  Schools participate in the Direct Loan program either by originating loans or by
  using an alternative originator to originate loans. The school must certify the
  borrower's eligibility to receive the funds. To obtain a Direct PLUS Loan, the
  parent shall complete an application and authorize a credit check. If the parent
  does not have an adverse credit history the loan maybe disbursed. Schools may
  disburse funds by crediting them directly to the student's account at the school,
  issuing a check or cash, or by initiating an electronic fund transfer.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Applicants may apply for a loan for any year of school. The interest rate on new
  Stafford and Unsubsidized Stafford Loans starting July 1, 2006 is fixed at 6.8
  percent. The College Cost Reduction and Access Act (CCRAA) of 2007
  authorized phased reductions to the interest rates for Subsidized Stafford loans
  borrowed by undergraduates with the rate cut in half to 3.4 percent on July 1,
  2011. There are four repayment plans that are available for Direct Loan
  borrowers: (1) A standard repayment plan with a fixed monthly payment amount
  over a period of up to 10 years; (2) an extended repayment plan with a fixed
