  criteria is in the application package for this competition. Criteria subject to        
  change. Contact program office for further information.                                 
                                                                                          
                                                                                          
84.275 REHABILITATION TRAINING-GENERAL

                                                                                          
TRAINING                                                                                  
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                           
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,                                
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                            
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Title III, Section 302, 29 U.S.C. 774.          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                               
  To ensure that skilled personnel are available to provide rehabilitation services       
  to individuals with disabilities through: (1) Vocational, medical, social, and          
  psychological rehabilitation programs; (2) supported employment programs; and           
  (3) independent living client assistance programs. To support projects that: (1)        
  Maintain and upgrade basic skills and knowledge of personnel employed; and              
                                                                                          
  (2) increase the numbers of qualified personnel trained in providing

                                                                                          
  rehabilitation services.

                                                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                          
  Project Grants.

                                                                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  Training grants are limited to support of education programs for personnel such         
                                                                                          
  as rehabilitation counselors, administrators, independent living specialists,

                                                                                          
  audiologists, rehabilitation teachers for individuals who are blind, rehabilitation

                                                                                          
  technology specialists who provide vocational, independent living, and client

                                                                                          
  assistance services to individuals with disabilities.                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                    
  State vocational rehabilitation agencies, and other public or nonprofit agencies        
  and organizations, including institutions of higher education may apply.                
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Individuals employed in positions related to the rehabilitation of individuals

  with disabilities will benefit.                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                                
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State             
  and local governments and with OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational                    
  institutions.                                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                              
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                          
Application Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with the notice               
  published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office for more                  
  information. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                    
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult             
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State    
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying       
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. This program is       
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                          
  Applications are reviewed by panels of field readers. Each panel will generally         
  include two or more nonfederal members with experience and training in the              
  proposed area of training.                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                                
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register; contact the program office         
  for application deadlines and information.                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                       
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 120 to 160 days                 
  following the application deadline.                                                     
Appeals:                                                                                  
  None.                                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                                 
  Renewals are available only through the new application process. Projects with

                                                                                          
  an approved multi-year project period may be continued based on the                     
  availability of adequate funds and an annual review of accomplishments to

                                                                                          
  determine satisfactory performance.

                                                                                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                          
  None.

                                                                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                          
  Projects generally may be supported for 1 to 5 years; with 12-month budget              
  period. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.                              
Reports:                                                                                  
  Annual financial and progress reports must be submitted as required by grant            
  award terms and conditions.                                                             
Audits:                                                                                   
  Institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations are subject to the         
  audit requirements of OMB Circular No. A-133. In accordance with the                    
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of               
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities            
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have        
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities       


                                                                                     11-08
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  As required by Education Department General Administrative Regulations
  (EDGAR).
Account Identification:
  91-0301-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $300,000; FY 08 est $300,000; and FY 09 est
  $300,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None because only one award is supported.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Clearinghouse of rehabilitation training materials.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations can be found in 34 CFR 385.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Rehabilitation Services Administration, Office of Special Education and
  Rehabilitation Services, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W.,
  Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Ruth Brannon. Telephone: (202) 245-7278.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/offices/OSERS/RSA.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.129, Rehabilitation Long-Term Training.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are included in application notices. Contact the Program Office for this
  information.
84.282 CHARTER SCHOOLS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF INNOVATION AND IMPROVEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title V Part B,
  Subpart 1. 20 U.S.C. 8061-8067.
OBJECTIVES:
  The program supports the planning, development, and initial implementation of
  charter schools and the dissemination of information on charter schools. Charter
  schools provide enhanced parental choice and are exempt from many statutory
  and regulatory requirements. In exchange for this increased flexibility, charter
  schools establish plans to improve student academic achievement and to
  stimulate the creativity and commitment of teachers, parents, and the public.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Each State educational agency (SEA) receiving a grant should award subgrants
  to one or more eligible applicants in their State, enabling them to plan and
  implement a charter school. Each eligible applicant, other than an SEA,
  receiving funds from the Secretary or an SEA shall use the funds to plan and
  implement a charter school. Grantees receive up to 3 years of assistance, of
  which they may not use more than 18 months for planning and program design
  and not more than 2 years for the initial implementation of a charter school.This
  program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use a restricted
  indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 75.563. For assistance call
  the Office of Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202)708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State educational agencies (SEAs) with specific statutes authorizing charter
  schools are eligible. If an eligible SEA elects not to participate in this program
  or does not have an approved application, authorized public chartering agencies
  participating in partnerships with charter school developers may apply, directly
  to the Secretary.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  School administrators, teachers, and students and their parents are beneficiaries.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Contact the program office for application information. Application notices are
  published in the Federal Register.
Award Procedure:
  Contact the program office for this information.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 120 days.
                                                                                 1147
