  Professional Development_Federal Activities.                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  One comprehensive regional assistance center has set as its goal the               
  implementation of a system of sustained and comprehensive support that             
  improves teaching and learning in schools in the region, resulting in high         
  academic achievement for all students, particularly those at risk of educational   
  failure. The center provides support and professional development and              
  assistance to schools; operates a coordinated system of technical assistance with  
  partners at the local, State and national levels; and provides technical assistance
  and research-based information supported by technology. In working with client     
  educational agencies, the center uses awareness of the need for change, greater    
  responsibility for student achievement, requirements of recent legislation and the 
  promise of technology as openings to help move clients from token or tentative     
  reform measures to more comprehensive ones. Consistent with statutory              
  priorities, the center concentrates on assisting school-wide programs and those    
  who serve children from high-poverty schools.                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Criteria include: (1) Meeting the purpose of the authorizing statue; (2) extent of 
  need for the center; (3) plan of operation; (4) quality of key personnel; (5)      
  budget and cost-effectiveness; (6) evaluation plan; and (7) adequacy of            
  resources.                                                                         
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
84.286 READY TO TEACH                                                                
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF INNOVATION AND IMPROVEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                
  EDUCATION                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, Title V, Part D, Subpart 8.                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To carry out a national telecommunications-based program to improve teaching,      
  and prepare students to achieve challenging academic standards, in core            
  curriculum areas. The Ready to Teach program also supports digital educational     
  programming grants that enable eligible entities to develop, produce, and          
  distribute educational and instructional video programming.                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Not more than five percent of the amount received under the grant may be used      
  for administrative costs.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  A local public telecommunications entity or partnership of such entities, as       
  defined in section 397(12) of the Communications Act of 1934, that is able to      
  demonstrate a capacity for the development and distribution of educational         
  instructional television programming of high quality.                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Elementary and secondary students, and school teachers who provide instruction     
  in core curriculum areas (in the United States).                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Application forms and instructions are available from the program office.          
  Application deadlines and other information for applicants are published in the    
  Federal Register.                                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Awards are competitively selected following review by nonfederal experts and       
  by the program staff. The Assistant Secretary for the Office of Educational        
  Research and Improvement approves the selection.

Deadlines:                                                                           
  Application deadlines and other information for applicants are published in the

  Federal Register.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 days following the      
  application deadline.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations         
  (EDGAR) for direct grant programs (see 34 CFR 75.253). Generally, for              
  multiple-year awards, continuation awards after the first budget period are made   
  if: sufficient funds have been appropriated; the recipient has either made         
  substantial progress in meeting the goals of the project or obtained approval for  
  changes in the project; the recipient has submitted all required reports; and      
  continuation is in the best interest of the government.                            


                                                                                11-08
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Digital educational programming grants amended under ESEA Sec. 5484,
  require a match of not less than 100 percent from federal applicants. Grants
  awarded under ESEA Sec. 5481, to carry out a national telecommunications-
  based program have no formula or matching regulations. Such matching funds
  may include funds provided for the transition to digital broadcasting, as well as
  in-kind contributions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Following a competitively selected 12-month award, up to two additional years
  may be awarded. Renewals are subject to the availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  A s required by the Educational Department General Administrative Regulations
  (EDGAR) for direct grant programs (34 CFR 75). Generally, annual
  performance and financial reports are required.
Audits:
  See 34 CFR 74.26. Institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations
  are subject to the audit requirements of OMB Circular No. A-133. State and
  local governments are subject to the requirements in the Single Audit Act and
  the ED regulations implementing OMB Circular No. A-128 (see 34 CFR 80).
Records:
  As required by EDGAR for direct grant programs (34 CFR 75). Generally,
  records related to grant funds, compliance, and performance must be maintained
  for a period of five years after completion.
Account Identification:
  91-0204-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $10,890,000; FY 08 est $10,700,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Fory FY 2008, the range is $4.2 million to $6.5 million; the average award is
  $5.35 million.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2008, two continuation awards were made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), 34 CFR
  74, 75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OII Technology in Education Programs, 400
  Maryland Ave. S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Sharon Harris,
  Telephone: (202) 205-5880. E-mail: sharon.harris@ed.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/readyteach/index.html .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In FY 2005, the most recent year that new awards were made in this program,
  the Department funded a grant to Alabama Public Television and the Alabama
  State Department of Education to lead a multi-state collaborative effort to
  provide online staff development programs for educators. Eight state
  departments of education and their public broadcast station partners have joined
  together in this partnership to address the need for accessible professional
  development opportunities. Partners in the Alabama Public Television e-
  Learning for Educators project include the following States: Alabama, Delaware,
  Kentucky, Mississippi, Missouri, New Hampshire, Pennsylvania, and West
  Virginia. Boston College, Education Development Corporation (EDC) and
  Southern Regional Education Board (SREB) are providing technical assistance,
  consultation, and evaluation. Alabama Public Television is administering the
  grant.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The Department uses the selection criteria contained in the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) to evaluate
  applications to this program.
84.287 TWENTY-FIRST CENTURY COMMUNITY
LEARNING CENTERS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title IV, Part B.
OBJECTIVES:
  To create community learning centers that provide academic enrichment
  opportunities for children, particularly students who attend high-poverty and
  low-performing schools. The program is intended to help students meet state and
  local student standards in core academic subjects, such as reading and math;
  offers students a broad array of enrichment activities that should complement
  their regular academic programs; and offers literacy and other educational
  services to the families of participating children.
                                                                                1149
