Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/rtltv/index.html.                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Under the current Ready to Learn 5-year awards, which began in fiscal year          
  2005, WTTW-Channel 11 (Chicago public television) and the Corporation for           
  Public Broadcasting (CPB) received awards to develop, produce, and distribute       
  age-appropriate educational programming and curricula that utilize scientifically   
  based reading research for children ages 2 through 8 years old, along with their    
  parents and caregivers. WTTW-Channel 11 will develop four new literacy-             
  based children's series, including Word World, Everyday Alphabet, and R U           
  There. CPB is also developing several new literacy-based children's programs,       
  including Super Why, the New Electric Company, and Martha Speaks. In                
  addition to these new series, CPB will also support additional episodes of          
  current series, such as Sesame Street and Between the Lions.                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The criteria for selecting applications under this program are contained in 34      
  CFR 700, Evaluation of Applications for Grants and Cooperative Agreements.          
  The specific criteria to be used for a particular grant competition are selected    
  from among those in 34 CFR 700, and announced in the application package or         
  the application notice in the Federal Register.                                     
                                                                                      
84.298 STATE GRANTS FOR INNOVATIVE PROGRAMS                                           
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, Title V, Part A.                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist State and local educational agencies in the reform of elementary and      
  secondary education.                                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funding may be used for the following purposes: to support local education          
  reform efforts; to provide funding to enable state educational agencies and local   
  educational agencies to implement promising educational reform programs and         
  school improvement programs that rely on scientifically based research; to          
  provide a continuing source of innovation and educational improvement,              
  including support programs that provide library services and instructional and      
  media materials; to meet the educational needs of all students, including at-risk   
  youths; and to develop and implement education programs to improve school,          
  student, and teacher performance, including professional development activities     
  and class-size reduction programs. This program is subject to non-supplanting       
  requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced       
  under 34 CFR 76.564-76.569. For assistance call the Office of the Chief             
  Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on 202-708-7770.                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  All States including the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the Outlying        
  areas are eligible to apply.                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Public and private elementary and secondary students in each State benefit.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.

Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  An application that complies with the statutory requirements and approval of the    
  State formula for distribution of funds to LEAs must be submitted every 3 years     
  and updated annually if necessary.                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Grant awards are issued after July 1 of each year if requirements are met. SEAs     
  will issue grant awards to LEAs for the school year beginning subsequent to the     
  award to the State.                                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Applications and the formula for distribution must be submitted sufficiently in     
  advance of July 1 to permit review and approval. All application amendments or      
  changes to the formula must be on file to reflect any changes.                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  The Department allocates funds to any State with an approved application.           
Appeals:                                                                              
  See 34 CFR 80.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:

1152                                                                            11-08

  The Department is authorized to reserve up to one percent of the funds for the
  Outlying areas. The balance is allotted to SEAs based on the State's relative
  share of the Nation's school-aged population. The SEA is authorized to reserve
  up to 15 percent of the funds for State administration and technical assistance,
  of which not more than 15 percent may be used for administrative expenses.
  The balance of the funds the State receives is distributed to the LEAs on the
  basis of the formula developed by the State and approved by the Department.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  From July 1 to September 30 of the following year. In addition, funds remain
  available to States for an additional fiscal year for obligation and expenditure.
  Grantees draw down funds electronically as needed.
Reports:
  In accordance with the provisions of EDGAR.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  SEAs and LEAs are required to keep such records as may be required for Federal
  audit, monitoring, and program evaluation.
Account Identification:
  91-1000-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $99,000,000; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not applicable - no funding in FY 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The requirements of the statute and the Education Department General
  Administrative Regulations apply to this program. The Secretary has developed
  non-regulatory guidance to assist program personnel in the implementation and
  administration of projects assisted under this program. This guidance can be
  obtained from the Program Office.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OESE, School Support and Technology Programs,
  400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-6140. Contact: Lynette Kee
  E-mail: lynette.kee@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 260-2540.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/innovative/index.html or
  http://www.ed.gov/policy/elsec/leg/esea02/pg57.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable - no funding in FY 2008.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
84.304 CIVIC EDUCATION - COOPERATIVE EDUCATION
EXCHANGE PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SAFE AND DRUG-FREE SCHOOLS, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education, Title II, Part C, Subpart 3.
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To make available to educators from eligible countries exemplary curricula
  and teacher training programs in civics, government, and economics education,
  developed in the United States; (2) to assist eligible countries in the adaptation,
  implementation, and institutionalization of such programs; (3) to create and
  implement civics, government, and economic education programs for students
  that draw upon the experiences of participating eligible countries; (4) to provide
  a means for the exchange of ideas and experiences in civics, government, and
  economic education among political, educational, governmental, and private
  sector leaders of participating eligible countries; and (5) to provide support for-
  -(a) independent research and evaluation to determine the effects of educational
  programs on students' development of the knowledge, skills, and traits of
  character essential for the preservation and improvement of constitutional
  democracy; and (b) effective participation in, and the preservation and
  improvement of, an efficent market economy.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
