  Of the funds available for this program, by statue, 37.5 percent must be used for   
  a grant or contract with the Center for Civic Education and 37.5 percent must be    
  used for a grant or contract for the National Council on Economic Education.        
  The remaining 25 percent of the funds are for one to three competitive grants to    
  eligible entities described below. Countries eligible to participate, in addition to
  the United States, include Central European countries, Eastern European             
  countries, Lithuania, Latvia, Estonia, the independent states of the former Soviet  
  Union as defined in Section 3 of the FREEDOM Support Act (22 U.S.C. 5801) ,         
  the Republic of Ireland, the province of Northern Ireland in the United Kingdom,    
  and any developing country (as such term is defined in section 209(d) of the        
  Education for the Deaf Act) if the Secretary of Education, with the concurrence     
  of the Secretary of State, determines that such developing country has a            
  democratic form of government.                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  By statute, the Center for Civic Education and the National Council on              
  Economic Education each receive program funds through a grant or contract. In       
  addition, a competition is held for organizations experienced in the development    
  of curricula and programs in civics and government education and economic           
  education for students in elementary schools and secondary schools in countries     
  other than the United States.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Educational leaders in the areas of civics and government education, and            
  economic education, including teachers, curriculum and teacher training             
  specialists, and scholars in relevant disciplines.                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or the          
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more     
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for        
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Contact the Headquarters Office listed below for application packages

  containing the announcement, application, and assurance forms.                      
Award Procedure:

  Applications are reviewed and evaluated by outside experts and program staff

                                                                                      
  annually, in accordance with EDGAR and 34 CFR 700, Evaluation of                    
  Applications for Grants and Cooperative Agreements. The Assistant Secretary         
  for Educational Research and Improvement approves the selection of                  
  applications.                                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Application deadlines and other information for applicants are published as a       
  notice in the Federal Register.                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 120 days.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made for twelve months. One award is made to the Center for Civic        
  Education and one award to the National Council on Economic Education. One          
  to three awards are competitively selected.                                         
Reports:                                                                              
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations          
  for direct grants (34 CFR 75). A final performance report is due ninety days        
  after termination of the grant.                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  See 34 CFR 74.26. Institutions of higher education and nonprofit organizations      
  are subject to the audit requirements of OMB Circular No. A-133. State and          
  local governments are subject to the requirements in the Single Audit Act and       
  the ED regulations implementing OMB Circular No. A-128 (see 34 CFR 80).             
Records:                                                                              
  As required by EDGAR for direct grant programs (34 CFR 75). Generally,              
  records related to grant funds, compliance, and performance must be maintained      
  for a period of five years after completion.                                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-0203-0-1-501.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $12,072,000; FY 08 est $11,861,000; and FY 09 est $0.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable because the range and average vary greatly by competition.           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In FY 2008, five continuation awards were made.                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The regulations applicable to this program are in the Education Department          
  General Administrative Regulations, 34 CFR 74, 75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86,      


                                                                                 11-08
  and 97.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OSDFS, 400 Maryland Ave, S.W., Washington, DC
  20202. Contact: Rita Foy Moss E-mail: rita.foy.moss@ed.gov. Telephone (202)
  205-8061.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/coopedexchange/index.html .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Sage Colleges received an award to administer the Civic Mosaic, and
  exchange program that will help prepare young people in the United States and
  Russia to be more reponsible citizens. Through this program 12 American
  regions will be paired with 12 Russian regions, and each region will exchange 2
  teachers (exchange fellows) annually. Exchange fellows will engage in joint
  research projects, seminars, present research at international conferences, and
  develop lesson plans and classroom resources. The Center for Civic Education
  will administer Civitas Latin America, an exchange program that will: 1) assist
  Latin American educators in creating, adapting, implementing, and
  institutionalizing civic educaiton programs in their own countries; 2) create and
  implement civic education programs for students in the United States that will
  help them better understand the history and experiences of emerging and
  advanced democracies in Latin America; and 3) facilitate the exchange of ideas
  related to civic education between educational, governmental, and private sector
  leaders in the United States and Latin America.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The criteria for selecting applications under this program are contained in 34
  CFR 700, Evaluation of Applications for Grants and Cooperative Agreements.
  The specific criteria to be used for a particular grant competition are selected
  from among those in 34 CFR 700, and announced in the application package or
  the application notice in the Federal Register.
84.305 EDUCATION RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT AND
DISSEMINATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION SCIENCES, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Education Sciences Reform Act of 2002, Title I, Parts A, B and D, Secs. 133
  and 172, 20 U.S.C. 9533, 9562.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support the development and distribution of scientifically valid research,
  evaluation, and data collection that support learning and improve academic
  achievement.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Contracts).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants will support basic and applied research, development, dissemination,
  evaluations, and demonstrations in education.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State education agencies, local education agencies, institutions of higher
  education, public and private agencies and organizations, institutions, and
  individuals or a consortium thereof may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Institutions and individuals involved with education will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Standard Form 424, "Application for Federal Assistance," an application
  narrative, and required certifications must be submitted by the deadline specified
  in the Federal Register.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by panels of field readers in accordance with 34 CFR
  700, "Evaluation of Applications for Grants and Cooperative Agreements."
Deadlines:
  Contact the Program Office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 90 to 120 days
  following the application deadline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are based on the review of annual performance reports and the
  recommendation of the project officer. All renewals are subject to the
  availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
                                                                                 1153
