  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Projects generally may be supported for 1 to 5 years. Funds are granted on a 12      
  month basis. All grantee obligations shall be liquidated within 90 days following    
  the end of the award period. Payments may be made according to a                     
  predetermined schedule or by way of reimbursement.                                   
Reports:                                                                               
  Annual financial and progress reports must be submitted as required by grant         
  award terms and conditions.                                                          
Audits:                                                                                
  All expenditures by State and local governments will be audited by the grantee       
  or at the grantee's direction with reasonable frequency, usually once a year but     
  not less then once every 2 years. Other recipients must also have audits             
  conducted at least once every 2 years. The Secretary of Education, the Assistant     
  Secretary, IES, and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their    
  duly authorized representatives shall have access for the purpose of audit and       
  examinations, to all applicable records and to any other pertinent books,            
  documents, papers, and records of the grantee.                                       
Records:                                                                               
  Each grantee will keep intact, and accessible, records relating to the receipt and   
  expenditure of Federal funds and the expenditures of the grantee's contribution      
  to the cost of the project, if any. Records will normally be retained for 3 years    
  after the date of the submission of the final expenditure report, or for grants that 
  are reviewed annually, 3 years after the date of the award.                          
Account Identification:                                                                
  91-1100-0-1-503.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $162,552,000; FY 08 est $159,696,000; and FY 09 est                   
  $167,196,000.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable because the range and average varies by competition.                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  The Institute collaborates with other universities and research organizations and    
  works with public schools.                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  For more information contact the program office.                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Institute of Education Sciences, Department of Education, 555 New Jersey Ave.        
  N.W., Washington, DC 20202. Telephone: (202) 219-2079.                               
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://ies.ed.gov/ncer.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The criteria for selecting applications under this program are contained in 34       
  CFR 700, Evaluation of Applications for Grants and Cooperative Agreements.           
  The specific criteria to be used for a particular grant competition are selected     
  from among those in 34 CFR 700, and announced in the application package or          
  the application notice in the Federal Register.                                      
                                                                                       
84.310 PARENTAL INFORMATION AND RESOURCE                                               
                                                                                       
CENTERS

                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF INNOVATION AND IMPROVEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
  EDUCATION                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act; Title V, Part D, Subpart 16.                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide grants to nonprofit organizations and nonprofit organizations in          
  consortia with local education agencies (LEAs) to assist them in establishing        
  parental information and resource centers. These centers strive to: (1) assist       
  parents in helping their children to meet State and local standards; (2) obtain      
  information about the range of programs, services, and resources available           
  nationally and locally for parents and school personnel who work with parents;       
  (3) help parents use the technology applied in their children's education; (4)       
  plan, implement, and fund activities for parents that coordinate the education of    
  their children with other programs that serve their children and families; and (5)   
  coordinate and integrate early childhood programs with school-age programs.          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Each grantee receiving funds under this program must use at least 50 percent of      
  the funds provided to serve areas with high concentrations of low-income             
  families in order to serve parents that are severely educationally or economically   
  disadvantaged. At least 30 percent of the funds must also be used to establish,      
                                                                                       
1154                                                                             11-08

  expand, or operate a Parents As Teachers Program or a Home Instruction
  Program for Preschool youngsters. Other requirements include the establishment
  of a special advisory committee and design requirements. Grantees must serve
  both urban and rural areas. For funding in subsequent years, grantees must
  demonstrate that a portion of the services provided under this project is
  supported through nonfederal contributions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Nonprofit organizations and nonprofit organizations in consortia with LEAs may
  apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Preschool and school-aged children and their parents will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with the notice
  published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office for more
  information.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by panels of field readers. Points are awarded
  according to the selection criteria for discretionary grants contained in the
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR).
  Applications are ranked based on the number of points awarded and are selected
  for funding based on their rank order and geographic location in order to satisfy
  statutory provisions. Grants are distributed, to the greatest extent possible, to all
  geographic regions of the country.
Deadlines:
  Contact the program office for application deadlines and information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 through 90 days
  following the application deadline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are based on the review of annual performance reports and the
  recommendation of the project officer. All renewals are subject to the
  availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grantees are required to contribute, from nonfederal sources, a portion of the
  services provided under the project after the first year.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects generally may be supported for 1 to 4 years. Funds are granted on a 12-
  month basis. Renewals are subject to the availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  Annual progress reports must be submitted as required by grant award terms
  and conditions.
Audits:
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administration
  Regulations (EDGAR), 34 CFR 74, nonprofit organizations are subject to the
  audit requirements in OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations." In accordance with the provisions
  of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program- specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that
  expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations.
Account Identification:
  91-0204-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $39,600,000; FY 08 $38,908,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $406,294 to $943,386; the
  average award is expected to be $608,197.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Approximately 62 awards are expected to be in FY 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR). For more
  information contact the program office.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  U.S. Department of Education, OII Parental Options and Information 400
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Rm. 3E209, FB-6 Washington DC 20202. Contact:
