  Steven L. Brockhouse. Telephone: 202-260-2476. E-mail Address:                      
  steve.brockhouse@ed.gov.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/pirc/index.html.                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Centers typically use funds to: (1) coordinate with existing programs that          
  support parents in understanding state and local standards and measures of          
  student and school academic achievement; (2) develop resource materials and         
  provide information about high-quality family involvement programs to               
  families, schools, school districts, and others through conferences, workshops,     
  and dissemination of materials; and (3) support a variety of promising models of    
  family involvement programs such as the Parents as Teachers (PAT), the Home         
  Instruction Program for Preschool Youngsters (HIPPY), and other early               
  childhood parenting programs. Projects generally include a focus on serving         
  parents of low-income, minority, and limited English proficient children enrolled   
  in elementary and secondary schools.                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The selection criteria contained in the Education Department General                
  Administrative Regulations are used to evaluate this program. For more              
  information contact the Program Office.                                             
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
84.315 CAPACITY BUILDING FOR TRADITIONALLY                                            
UNDERSERVED POPULATIONS                                                               
   (Capacity Building)                                                                
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,                            
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, Section 21, 29 U.S.C. 718b.                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To enhance the capacity and increase the participation of historically Black        
  colleges and universities, Hispanic serving institutions of higher education, and   
  other institutions of higher education where minority enrollment is at least 50     
  percent, in competitions for grants, contracts, and cooperative agreements under    
  the Rehabilitation Act, as amended.                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants are limited to: awards to minority entities and Indian tribes to carry out   
  activities under the programs authorized under titles II, III, VI, and VII of the   
  Rehabilitation Act; awards to minority entities and Indian tribes to conduct        
  research, training, technical assistance, or related activities, to improve services
  provided under the Rehabilitation Act, especially services provided to              
  individuals from minority backgrounds; and awards to eligible entities to           
  provide outreach and technical assistance to minority entities and Indian tribes    
  to promote their participation in activities funded under the Rehabilitation Act.   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  States and public and nonprofit agencies and organizations may apply.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Historically Black colleges and universities; (2) Hispanics serving institutions of 
  higher education; (3) Indian tribal colleges and universities (4) other institutions
  of higher education whose minority student enrollment is at least 50 percent; and   
  (5) Indian Tribes.                                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State         
  and local governments. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB              
  Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions.                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Department of Education and      
  required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This              
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review        
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official            
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process that the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if
  the State has selected the program for review.                                      
                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with the notice

                                                                                      
  published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office for more

                                                                                      
  information.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  All new applications are reviewed by a panel of at least three individuals. Each

                                                                                      
  panel will generally include two or more nonfederal consultants with experience

  and training in the proposed area of training. Each panel will include a person

  with a disability and an individual from a minority background.                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                      
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office



                                                                                 11-08
  for application deadlines and information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 120 to 150 days
  following the application deadline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are available only through the new application process. Projects with
  an approved multi-year project period may be continued based on the
  availability of adequate funds and an annual review of accomplishments to
  determine satisfactory performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects generally may be supported for 1 to 5 years, with budget periods so 12-
  months. Renewals are subject to the availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  Annual financial and progress reports must be submitted as required by the grant
  award's terms and conditions.
Audits:
  Audits must be conducted on a continuing basis or at scheduled intervals,
  usually once a year, but at least once every 2 years. Institutions of higher
  education and nonprofit organizations are subject to the audit requirements of
  OMB Circular No. A-133. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Nonprofit Organizations, nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of
  $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program- specific
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements
  for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  As required by EDGAR.
Account Identification:
  91-0301-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $2,291,000; FY 08 est $2,900,000; and FY 09 est
  $2,802,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The range of awards is $225,000 - $250,000 in FY 2007.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Some program accomplishments include the following: (1) Extensive training on
  the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended, the Americans With Disabilities
  Act, and other key disability legislation; (2) the establishment of State-wide
  consortia of public agencies and organizations to better coordinate the delivery
  of vocational rehabilitation and other related services to persons with disabilities
  from minority backgrounds; (3) sponsoring and co-sponsoring of national and
  regional conferences of rehabilitation providers such as the Consortia of
  Administrators for Native American Rehabilitation (CANAR) and others; (4)
  establishment of rehabilitation training programs at colleges and universities; (5)
  increase in the number of applications and funding of projects from minority
  institutions of higher education; (6) implementation of national satellite
  broadcasts to discuss rehabilitation with participants from institutions of higher
  education, rehabilitation State agencies, independent living centers, supported
  employment programs and other agencies and organizations involved in the
  administration of rehabilitation programs.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations. For more
  information contact the program office.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OSERS Rehabilitation Services Administration 400
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-2649. Contact: Ellen Chesley. E-
  mail: ellen.chesley@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7300.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/osers/rsa/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects have supported training, technical assistance, and related activities
  provided by minority institutions of higher education and Indian tribes and to
  improve services provided under the Rehabilitation Act, especially services
  provided to individuals with disabilities from minority backgrounds.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The selection criteria contained in the Education Department General
  Administrative Regulations are used to evaluate this program.
84.318 EDUCATION TECHNOLOGY STATE GRANTS
   (Enhancing Education through Technology Program)
                                                                                   1155
