                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title II, Part D,        
  Subparts 1 and 2.                                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide grants to State educational agencies (SEAs) on a formula basis to (a)     
  improve student academic achievement through the use of technology in                
  schools; (b) assist all students in becoming technologically literate by the end of  
  eighth grade; and (c) encourage the effective integration of technology with         
  teacher training and curriculum development to establish successful research-        
  based instructional methods.                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  At least 95 percent of awards to SEAs must be used to make subgrants to LEAs.        
  Half of the subgrant funds (the 95 percent) must be used for formula awards to       
  eligible local educational agencies (LEAs) that receive funds under Title I, Part    
  A. The remaining one-half provides competitive awards to eligible local entities     
  (see benificiary eligibility). In the U.S. Department of Education fiscal year (FY)  
  2006 appropriations bill, Congress also included language overriding this            
  statutory provision and included language that provides SEAs with the flexibility    
  to reserve up to 100 percent of their allocations for competitive awards to          
  eligible entities. These provisions continue to apply under the FY 2008              
  appropriation. Each LEA and eligible entity receiving funds under this program       
  must use at least 25 percent of its funds to provide professional development; the   
  remaining funds must be used carry out other activities consistent with the          
  purposes of the program and the district's local technology plan. This program is    
  subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost      
  rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 76.564- 76.569. For assistance call the        
  Office of the Chief Financial Officer/ Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State educational agencies (SEA).                                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Elementary and secondary schools, students, and teachers will benefit.               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Applications are distributed to the Chief State School Officer for all eligible      
  SEAs. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  States have two options for applying for funds under this program. Option 1:         
  An SEA may submit an individual program application that includes a new or           
  updated statewide long-range strategic educational technology plan that              
  considers the educational technology needs of LEAs in the State, and an              
  application that addresses the following topics: (1) strategies for improving        
  academic achievement; (2) goals using advanced technology to improve student         
  academic achievement, aligned with challenging State standards; 3) steps to          
  increase accessibility to technology; (4) accountability measures; (5) innovative    
  instruction delivery strategies; (6) an assurance that financial resources provided  
  under the Educational Technology program will supplement, and not supplant,          
  State and local funds; (7) professional and curricular development; 8) a             
  description of how the SEA will provide technical assistance to applicants           
  seeking Ed Tech funds; (9) a description of technology resources and systems         
  that the State will provide; 10)strategies for financing technology; (11) strategies 
  for parental involvement; 12) competitive grant process description; 13)             
  integration of technology with curricula and instruction; 14) teacher incentives;    
  and 14) a description of how public and private entities will participate in the     
  implementation and support of the plan. Option 2: States may apply for funds         
  through a consolidated application, as provided for in ESEA Sec. 9301.               
  Through a consolidated application, a State will not submit all of the               
  information required for individual Educational Technology applications, but         
  will submit only "descriptions, information, assurances, . . . and other materials   
  that are absolutely necessssary for the consideration of the consolidated State      
  plan or consolidated State application" (ESEA Section 9302(b)(3)). The               
  specific information that an SEA must include in a consolidated application that

  incorporates the Educational Technology program was detailed in the                  
  consolidated State application documents the Department published in the             
  Federal Register.

Award Procedure:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the program office for information on deadlines.                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  120 days from receipt of application.                                                
Appeals:                                                                               
  The Secretary shall not disapprove a State technology plan or State application,     
  before offering the State an opportunity to revise the plan and a hearing. (See 34   


1156                                                                             11-08

  CFR 76.202.)
Renewals:
  SEAs shall annually report to the Secretary regarding progress in meeting State
  goals and plans. Items such as: (1) a proposal of State activities for the
  succeeding year; (2) a summary of the progress of LEAs in meeting local goals;
  and (3) a plan to increase student learning are required. Renewals are subject to
  the availability of resources.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funds are allocated to States proportionate to their share under Part A of Title I
  of ESEA but with a minimum allocation to any State of one-half of one percent
  of the amount appropriated.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations
  (EDGAR) for State-administered programs (34 CFR part 76). Financial and
  performance reports are required annually.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  As required by EDGAR for State-Administered programs (34 CFR part 76).
  Generally, States and subgrantees must retain records related to grant funds and
  compliance for a period of five years.
Account Identification:
  91-1000-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $272,250,000; FY 08 est $267,494,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  State awards range from the minimum $1,294,000 to $30,544,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  This program is designed to improve student academic achievement through the
  use of technology in elementary and secondary schools. It is also designed to
  assist every student - regardless of race, ethnicity, income, geographical location,
  or disability - in becoming technologically literate by the end of eighth grade.
  The program will facilitate the effective integration of technology resources and
  systems with professional development and curriculum development, resulting
  in research-based instructional methods that can be widely replicated.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  34 CFR 76, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and 86.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  School Support and Technology Programs, Office of Elementary and Secondary
  Education, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., FB6, Room
  3E307, Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Enid Marshall. E-mail:
  enid.marshall@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 708-9499.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/edtech/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Local activities supported by these grants include continuing professional
  development programs and public-private partnerships focused on the
  integration of technology in schools. Activities also include: the use of new or
  existing technologies to improve academic achievement; the acquisition of
  curricula that integrate technology and are designed to meet challenging State
  academic standards; the use of technology to increase parental involvement in
  schools and the use of technology to collect, manage, and analyze data to
  enhance teaching and school improvement efforts.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
84.323 SPECIAL EDUCATION - STATE PERSONNEL
DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Individuals with Disabilities Education Act (IDEA), Part D, Subpart 1.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist State educational agencies in reforming and improving their systems
  for personnel preparation and professional development of individuals providing
  early intervention, educational and transition services, to improve results for
