  Local educational agencies, nonprofit organizations, and State educational          
  agencies may apply for AP Incentive grants. State educational agencies may          
  apply for the AP Test Fee program.                                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Low-income high school students who (1) are enrolled in an advanced                 
  placement class; and (2) plan to take an advanced placement test.                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required      
  by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. This program is            
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal        
  programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the 
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State selected the 
  program for review.                                                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Secure grant application forms and instructions from the Federal Register.          
  Prepare and address submission according to published directions. This              
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                     
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications are reviewed by Education Department staff. Final decisions on         
  grants are made by the Secretary on the basis of statutory considerations.          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Established for grants each year by notice published in the Federal Register.       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Up to 120 days of receipt of applications.                                          
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards are made annually based on an applicant's eligibility and contingent on

                                                                                      
  the availability of funds and project performance.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made for one year for the AP Test Fee program, and for up to 3 years

  for the AP Incentive Grant program.                                                 
Reports:                                                                              
  A final report must be submitted. Reporting requirementa are included in the        
  final grant documents. Grantees also may be subject to national evaluation          
  performed by the Department of Education.                                           
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
                                                                                      
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                      
Records:

  Records are to be maintained as indicated in the grant or contract award            
  document.                                                                           
                                                                                      
Account Identification:

  91-0204-0-1-501.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $37,026,000; FY 08 est $43,539,834 and FY 09 est                     
  $70,000,000.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Average new AP Test Fee award in 2008: $266,830. Average API continuation           
  award in 2008: $571,776.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In 2007, 47 States participated in the AP Test Fee program; and 46 AP Incentive     
  grants were awarded.                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  EDGAR; 34 CFR 75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, and 99. Contact the Program           
  Office for this information.                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Education, OESE Academic Improvement and Teacher Quality              
  Programs, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-6140 Contact:               
  Ivonne Jaime, E-mail: ivonne.jaime@ed.gov, Telephone: (202) 260-1519.               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/apfee/index.html,                                        
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/apincent/index.html.                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Awards support activities to increase the participation of low-income students in   
  both pre-advanced placement and advanced placement courses. Grants support          
  teacher training, distance learning, and training for "vertical teams" or teachers  


1162                                                                            11-08

  from different grade levels in a given subject. Grants also help procure books
  and supplies and support other activities directly related to expanding access to,
  and participation in, advanced placement courses and tests for low-income
  students.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  To receive funds under the AP Test Fee program, an SEA must submit
  information to the Department describing the Advanced Placement test fees the
  State will pay on behalf of individual students along with assurances that (1) the
  requested funds will supplement and not supplant existing fee payment efforts;
  (2) there will be a method by which low-income individuals will be identified
  and that funds will be used to serve this population; and (3) there will be a
  description of the applicant's plan to disseminate information on the availability
  of test fee payments to eligible individuals through secondary school teachers
  and guidance counselors. To receive an AP Incentive grant, eligible entities must
  expand access for low-income individuals to advanced placement programs.
  Eligible activities include teacher training, development of pre-advanced
  placement courses, coordination and articulation between grade levels to prepare
  students for academic achievement in AP or IB courses, books and supplies, and
  participation in online AP or IB course. In awarding grants, the Secretary gives
  priority to applications that: (1) demonstrate a pervasive need for access to AP
  incentive programs; (2) provide for the involvement of business and community
  organizations in the activities to be assisted; (3) assure the availability of
  matching funds from State, local, or other sources; (4) demonstrate a focus on
  developing or expanding AP programs and participation in the core academic
  areas of English, mathematics, and science; (5) demonstrate an intent to carry
  out activities that target LEAs serving schools with a high concentration of low-
  income students, or schools with a high concentration of low-income students;
  and (6) in the case of applications submitted by LEAs, assure that the LEA
  serves schools with a high concentration of low-income students; or (7)
  demonstrates an intent to carry out activities to increase the availability of, and
  participation in, on-line AP courses.
84.331 GRANTS TO STATES FOR INCARCERATED
YOUTH OFFENDERS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF VOCATIONAL AND ADULT EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act Amendments of 1998, Title VIII, Part D.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist and encourage incarcerated youths to acquire functional literacy, life,
  and job skills through the pursuit of postsecondary education certificates,
  associate in arts degrees, and bachelor of arts degrees.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds can be used to provide grants to designated State Correctional Education
  Agencies to: (1) Assist and encourage incarcerated youths to acquire functional
  literacy, life and job skills, through the pursuit of a postsecondary education
  certificate, or an associates or bachelors degree; and (2) provide employment
  counseling and other related services that start during the period of incarceration
  and continue through pre-release and while on parole or during release.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The State Correctional Education Agency, as designated by the Governor of any
  of the 50 States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, District of Columbia,
  Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands,
  may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals who are: (1) incarcerated in a State prison, including a pre-release
  facility or an alternative program such as boot camp; (2) eligible to be released
  or paroled within 5 years; (4) 25 years of age or younger; and who (5) have
  obtained a secondary school diploma or its equivalent.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A State plan is required. The State plan must include a certification for a State
  official that all provisions and amendments thereto are consistent with the Act.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The Director of the Office of Correctional Education will provide guidance on
  specific issues and technical assistance in the preparation of State Plans. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Each designated State Correctional Education Agency must submit to the
  Secretary of Education a State plan, which sets forth the procedures under which
  the State will carry out activities to achieve its program objectives and
  priorities and fulfill the purposes of the Act. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The Secretary approves the State Plan and any amendment thereto and makes
  allocations to the State.
Deadlines:
