  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office for      
  additional information.                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Range is approximately 4 weeks from the date of application receipt.                 
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  From the amount appropriated, the Secretary allots to each State an amount that      
  bears the same relationship to the amount appropriated as the total number of        
  eligible students in each State bears to the total number of eligible students in all
  States. There is no matching requirement.                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Awards are made for a 12-month period. Funds must be expended within 24              
  months of their date of availability.                                                
Reports:                                                                               
  Annual Financial and Program Performance Reports in accordance with the              
  provisions in EDGAR.                                                                 
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  In accordance with Section 443 of the General Education Provisions Act, as           
  amended by the Improving America's Schools Act, grantees must maintain               
  records for 3 years.                                                                 
Account Identification:                                                                
  91-0400-0-1-501.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $22,770,000; FY 08 $22,372,000; and FY 09 est $0.                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  In FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $30,593 to $2,533,691; the

                                                                                       
  average is expected to be $447,444.                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  50 grants are expected to be awarded in FY 2008.                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  The provisions of Title VIII, Part D of the Higher Education Act, the

                                                                                       
  requirements of the General Education Provisions Act (GEPA), and the

                                                                                       
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 67,

                                                                                       
  77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, and, 86 apply.

                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                       
  Department of Education, OVAE 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC

                                                                                       
  20202-7242 Contact: John Linton. E-mail: john.linton@ed.gov. Telephone:

                                                                                       
  (202) 219-1743.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:

                                                                                       
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/transitiontraining/index.html .

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  84.002, Adult Education - Basic Grants to States; 84.048, Career and Technical

                                                                                       
  Education -- Basic Grants to States.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  The Maryland Department of Education received a grant to develop a

                                                                                       
  postsecondary liberal arts and vocational training program. The educational

                                                                                       
  programming offered is a mix of various postsecondary occupational training          
  programs, non-traditional careers training for women, and a standard liberal arts    
  curriculum. Services will be provided in the boot camp, the women's institution      
  and two medium security prisons.                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
84.332 COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOL REFORM                                                     
DEMONSTRATION                                                                          
                                                                                       
   (CSR)                                                                               
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended, Title I, Part F.                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The Comprehensive School Reform (CSR) program provides schools with                  
  funding to develop or adopt, and implement, comprehensive school reforms,            
  grounded in scientifically based research and effective practices, that will help    


                                                                                  11-08
  enable children in participating schools to meet challenging State standards.
  These reforms must be structured to address 11 critical elements included in the
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 (ESEA). The elements
  establish, among other things, that each participating school must base its
  proposed reforms on a comprehensive design that employs innovative strategies
  and methods based on reliable research and practice, aligns reforms with the
  school's regular program and a school needs assessment, and uses high-quality
  external technical support and assistance from entities with experience and
  expertise in schoolwide reform and improvement.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  All participating schools must use program funds to adopt and implement a
  comprehensive school reform program that: (1) employs proven methods and
  strategies based on scientifically-based research; (2) integrates a comprehensive
  design with aligned components; (3) provides high-quality professional
  development for teachers and staff; (4) includes measurable goals and
  benchmarks for student achievement; (5) is supported within the school by
  teachers, administrators, and staff; (6) provides support for teachers,
  administrators, and staff; (7) provides for meaningful parent and community
  involvement in planning, implementing, and evaluating school improvement
  activities; (8) uses high-quality external technical support and assistance from an
  external partner with experience and expertise in schoolwide reform and
  improvement; (9) plans for the evaluation of strategies for the implementation of
  school reforms and for student results achieved annually; (10) identifies
  resources to support and sustain the school's comprehensive reform effort; and
  (11) has been found to significantly improve the academic achievement of
  students or demonstrates strong evidence that it will improve the academic
  achievement of students. This program is subject to non-supplanting
  requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced
  under 34 CFR 76.564-76.569. For assistance call the Office of the Chief
  Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State educational agencies (SEAs). The subgrantees are local education
  agencies (LEAs) applying to their SEAs in collaboration with eligible schools
  within the LEAs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State educational agencies, local educational agencies, and public schools.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications should demonstrate the existence of a State-wide plan for
  supporting research-based comprehensive school reform that describes the
  process and selection criteria by which competitive subgrants will be made; how
  the SEA will ensure that only high-quality comprehensive school reform
  programs are funded; how the SEA will provide information and assistance to
  school districts and schools; and how the SEA will evaluate results achieved in
  schools districts receiving assistance.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
Application Procedure:
  The Department allocates funds to any State with an approved application.
Award Procedure:
  The Department awards grants to States by formula. States then award grants to
  LEAs.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Grants are awarded to SEAs annually. Subgrants are for up to three years with
  annual renewals subject to the approval of the SEA and availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funds are available under Title I - Demonstrations of Innovative Practices
  Program. Then funds are appropriated for formual grants. Title I funds are
  allocated to SEAs based on Title I basic grant formula. There are no matching
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds awarded to SEAs must be obligated not later than September 30, 2001.
Reports:
  No annual reports are required as part of this program.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
                                                                                  1163
