TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  There are two components of GEAR-UP: Early Intervention and Scholarship               
  Components. Under the Early Intervention component awards may be used to              
  allow States and partnership of entities such as community-based organizations,       
  schools, institutions of higher education, public and private agencies, nonprofit     
  and philanthropic organizations, and businesses to provide early intervention         
  activities such as comprehensive mentoring, counseling, outreach, and                 
  supportive services programs to eligible students beginning no later than seventh     
  grade through grade twelve. Under the Scholarship Component awards may be             
  used for the purpose of awarding Federal grant assistance to a student who is         
  less than 22 years old at the time of first scholarship; receives a secondary school  
  diploma or its recognized equivalent on or after January 1, 1993; is enrolled or      
  accepted for enrollment in a program of undergraduate instruction at an               
  institution of higher education and who participated in the early intervention        
  component or in a TRIO program. This program is subject to non-supplanting            
  requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced         
  under 34 CFR 76.564-76-569. For assistance call the Office of the Chief               
  Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  A State, or a partnership consisting of one or more local education agencies          
  acting on behalf of one or more elementary schools or secondary schools; and          
  the secondary schools that students from the schools (elementary/secondary)           
  would normally attend; one or more degree granting institutions of higher             
  education; and at least two community organizations or entities, such as              
  businesses, professional associations, community-based organizations,                 
  philanthropic organizations, State agencies, parent groups, and/or nonprofit          
  organizations. States are required to conduct both components.                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Low-income students and students in high-poverty schools.                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  None.                                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is eligible for coverage under Executive Order 12372,                    
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult           
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his/her State for

  more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for     
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                         
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  In any fiscal year in which funds are available for new awards, the Department        
  of Education publishes a notice in the Federal Register inviting applications and     
  establishing a deadline date. An application package is available from the Office     
  of Higher Education Programs. Copies are available on the web page and will           
  also be mailed upon request. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB         
  Circular No. A-110.                                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Peer review panels composed of representatives from public and private higher         
  education, State, and local education agencies having expertise in elementary,        
  secondary, and higher education are designated to review applications.                
Deadlines:                                                                              
  The deadline date is published in the Federal Register.                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Notification usually is made within 4 months of the deadline for submission of        
  applications.                                                                         
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  Applications for renewal of multi-year projects are processed and funded before       
  those for new projects. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This program has a statutory nonfederal matching requirement of not less that 50      
  percent of the program cost. States are required to match at 50 percent of the        
  grant. The Secretary may, by regulation, modify the percentage match for              
  partnerships. The nonfederal contribution may be in cash or in-kind.                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Grants are made for up to 5 years, subject to the availability of funds.              
Reports:                                                                                
  A biennial evaluation report is required.                                             
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June            
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that      
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal            
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                                
Records:                                                                                
  Records supporting claims under a grant must be maintained for 5 years after          
  termination of the awards.                                                            


                                                                                  11-08 
Account Identification:
  91-0201-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $303,423,120; FY 08 est $303,422,950; and FY 09 est
  $303,423,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 08, the average State grant was $3,460,000. The average new partnership
  grant was $951,000; the average continuation partnership grant was $1,216,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 08, 40 State grants were awarded and 152 partnership grants were
  awarded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  EDGAR; 34 CFR 694. Contact the program office for information.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, Office of Postsecondary Education, GEAR-UP, 400
  Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202-5131. Contact: James Davis
  or Sylvia Ross E-mail: gearup@ed.gov. Telephone (202) 502-7676.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/gearup/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  GEAR UP provides five-year grants to states and partnerships to provide
  services at high-poverty middle and high schools. GEAR UP grantees serve an
  entire cohort of students beginning no later than the seventh grade and follow
  the cohort through high school. GEAR UP funds are also used to provide college
  scholarships to low-income students.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The criteria for selecting among grant applications will normally be selected
  from those in the Education Department General Administrative Regulations
  (EDGAR). Contact the Program Office for more information.
84.335 CHILD CARE ACCESS MEANS PARENTS IN
SCHOOL
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act, Title IV, Part A, Subpart 7, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support the participation of low-income parents in postsecondary education
  through the provision of campus-based child care services.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Awards shall be used to support or establish child care programs serving low-
  income students enrolled in college. Funds may be used to provide for before or
  after school services to the extent necessary to allow students to pursue a
  postsecondary career. No funds from grants can be used for construction other
  than minor renovations to meet State or local health or safety needs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An institution of higher education is eligible to apply if the total amount of all
  Federal Pell Grant Funds awarded to students enrolled at the institution of higher
  education for the preceding fiscal year equals or exceeds $350,000.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Benefiting are low-income students enrolled in postsecondary programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  In any fiscal year in which funds are available for new awards, the Department
  of Education publishes a notice in the Federal Register inviting applications and
  establishing a deadline date. An application package is available from the
  Office of Higher Education Programs. Copies will be mailed upon request.
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Peer review panels composed of representatives from public and private higher
  education and child care providers having expertise in child care service are
  designated to review application.
Deadlines:
  The deadline date is published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
                                                                                  1165
