  Notification usually is made within 4 months of the deadline for submission of     
  applications.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Applications for renewal of multi-year projects are processed and funded before    
  those for new projects. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The grant amount awarded to an institution shall not exceed one percent of the     
  total amount of all Federal Pell Grant funds awarded to students enrolled at the   
  institution of higher education for the preceding fiscal year.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants shall be awarded for a period of 4 years, subject to the availability of    
  funds.                                                                             
Reports:                                                                             
  Reports are required 18 months and 36 months after receiving the first grant       
  payment.                                                                           
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  Records supporting claims under a grant must be maintained for 5 years after       
  termination of the award.                                                          
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-0201-0-1-502.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $15,810,300; FY 08 $15,463,735; and FY 09 est $15,463,735.          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $10,000 to $300,000; the

                                                                                     
  average award is expected to be $91,375.                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Approximately 170 awards are expected to be made in FY 2008.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Contact the Program Office for information.                                        
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

  Department of Education, Office of Postsecondary Education, Higher Education       
                                                                                     
  Programs, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202-5131. Contact:

                                                                                     
  Dorothy Marshall. E-mail: dorothy.marshall@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 502-

                                                                                     
  7634.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/campisp/ .

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Funds are used to support or establish campus-based child care programs            
  primarily serving the needs of low-income students enrolled in institutions of     
  higher education. Grants may be used for before- and after-school services. In     
                                                                                     
  addition, grants may be used to serve the child care needs of the community

                                                                                     
  served by the institution.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  Criteria for selecting among grant applications will be selected from those in the

                                                                                     
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR). Contact

                                                                                     
  the Program Office for more information.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
84.336 TEACHER QUALITY ENHANCEMENT GRANTS                                            
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  EDUCATION                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title II, Part A, Public Law 105-244.                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To improve student achievement; improve the quality of the current and future      
  teaching force by improving the preparation of prospective teachers and            
  enhancing professional development activities; hold institutions of higher         
                                                                                     
  education accountable for preparing teachers who have the necessary teaching

                                                                                     
  skills and are highly competent in the academic content areas in which the

                                                                                     
  teachers plan to teach; train pre-service teachers in the effective uses of

                                                                                     
  technology in the classroom; and recruit highly qualified individuals, including

                                                                                     
  individuals from other occupations, into the teaching force.

                                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Awards may be used to reform teacher preparation programs, reform                  


1166                                                                           11-08

  certification and licensure requirements, provide alternatives to traditional
  preparation for teaching, create alternative routes to State certification, develop
  and implement effective mechanisms for recruitment, pay, and removal of
  teachers, address the problem of social promotion, and to recruit teachers.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States and partnerships that consist of at least one institution of higher education
  with a teacher preparation program, one school of arts and sciences, and one
  high-need local educational agency. A high-need local educational agency; is an
  agency that serves an elementary school or secondary school located in an area
  containing: (1) A high percentage of individuals or families with incomes below
  the poverty line, (2) a high percentage of secondary teachers not teaching in the
  content area that they were trained to teach, or (3) a high teacher turnover rate.
  An accredited institution of higher education, with a teacher training program
  must demonstrate the following: (A) A graduate from the teacher training
  program exhibits strong performance on State-determined qualifying
  assessments for new teachers through demonstrating that 80 percent or more of
  the graduates of the program intending to enter the field of teaching have passed
  all of the applicable State qualification assessments for new teachers including
  an assessment of each prospective teacher's subject matter knowledge in the
  content area or areas in which the teacher intends to teach; (B) be ranked among
  the highest-performing teacher preparation programs in the State as determined
  by the State; (C) the teacher training program requires all the students of the
  program to participate in intensive clinical experience that meets high academic
  standards in the case of secondary candidates to successfully complete an
  academic major in the subject area in which the candidate intends to teach; (D)
  competence through a high level of performance in relevant content area; (F)
  successful completion of an academic major in the arts and sciences in the case
  of elementary school candidates, or (G) competence through a high level of
  performance in core academic subjects areas. (Note: Entities that may constitute
  a partnership are specifically listed in the Law.)
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Benefiting are students and school communities in high-need schools and school
  districts.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible under Executive Order 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact their State for more information on the
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  In any fiscal year in which funds are available for new awards, the Department
  of Education publishes a notice in the Federal Register inviting applications and
  establishing a deadline date. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB
  Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Peer review panels composed of representatives from public and private higher
  education, State and local educational agencies with expertise in teacher
  education are designated to review applications.
Deadlines:
  The deadline date is published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Notification usually is made within four months of the deadline for submission
  of applicants.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Applications for renewal of multi-year projects are processed and funded before
  those for new projects. Renewals are subject to the availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has statutory requirements as follows: State applicants are
  required to match 50 percent of the grant. Partnership applicants are required to
  match at 25 percent the first year of the grants, 35 percent in the second year of
  grant, and 50 percent in the third through fifth years of the grant.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants may be awarded for up to 3 years for State applicants and for up to five
  years for partnership applicants, subject to the availability of funds.
Reports:
  A final performance report is required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a hear in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal Audit requirements for that year, except as
  noted in circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records supporting claims under a grant must be maintained for five years after
