  To support protection and advocacy services through the systems established to    
  provide protection and advocacy services under the Developmental Disabilities     
  Assistance and Bill of Rights Act for the purpose of assisting the acquisition,   
  utilization, or maintenance of assistive technology or assistive technology       
  services for individuals with disabilities.

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Formula Grants.

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funds may be used to support protection and advocacy services related to          
  assistive technology services and devices. This program is subject to non-        
  supplanting requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate that is     
  referenced under 34 CFR 75-564-76.569. For assistance call the Office of the      
  Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group at (202) 708-7770.                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Designated protection and advocacy agencies in States and outlying areas only.    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Persons with disabilities who may benefit from assistive technology services and  
  devices.                                                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is covered under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of            
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as point 
  of contact in his or her State to be followed in applying for assistance has      
  selected the program for review.                                                  
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Office of Special Education    
  and Rehabilitative Services, Rehabilitation Services Administration and required  
  by OMB Circular No. A-102. Contact the Program Office for more information.       
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications are reviewed by Department of Education staff.                       
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact the program office for deadline information.                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  None.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                            
  The State may appeal to the Office of Administrative Law/udges (34 CFR 81).

                                                                                    
Renewals:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Annual formula grants.                                                            
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual progress reports, expenditure reports, and quarterly cash reports.         
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  As stated in grant or contract terms and conditions, the awardee shall mail       
  accounts, records, and other evidence pertaining to all costs incurred, review    
  other applicable credits acquired under this grant.                               
Account Identification:                                                             
  91-0301-0-1-506.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,341,000; and FY 08 est $4,265,000; and FY 09 est $0.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  The range of awards was approximately $50,000 - $415,188 in FY 07.                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  The Department made 56 grant awards in FY 08.                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Contact the Program Office for this information.                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Department of Education, OSERS Rehabilitation Services Administration, 400        
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-2500. Contact: Fred Isbister. E-        
  mail Address: fred.isbister@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 245-7385.                    
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/rsapair/awards.html.                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  84.240, Program of Protection and Advocacy of Individual Rights.                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Projects support information, advocacy and representation, training, technical    
  assistance, and general guidance for protection and advocacy entities to increase 
  access to and provision of assistive technology devices and services. The         


1168                                                                          11-08

  emphasis is on consumer advocacy and capacity building through protection and
  advocacy agencies in the States.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Contact the Program Office for information.
84.345 UNDERGROUND RAILROAD EDUCATIONAL AND
CULTURAL PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Amendments of 1998; Title VIII, Part H, Public Law 105-244.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants to nonprofit education organizations that are established to
  research, display, interpret and collect artifacts relating to the history of the
  underground railroad.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  In accordance with eligibility requirements. Organizations receiving funds
  must: demonstrate substantial private support through a public-private
  partnership; create an endowment that provides for the operations of the facility;
  and establish a network of satellite centers throughout the United States to help
  disseminate information regarding the Underground Railroad.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An application submitted for funding under this program must include: (1) The
  name, address, and web site address, if any, of the nonprofit educational
  institution seeking to participate, and the name, title, mailing and e-mail address,
  and telephone number of a contact person for the institution. (2) A description
  of the facility that will be used to house the artifacts related to the history of the
  Underground Railroad and to make the interpretive efforts available to
  institutions of higher education that award a baccalaureate or graduate degree.
  (3) A description of the substantial private support for the facility through the
  implementation of a public private partnership between a State or local public
  entity and a private entity. for the support of the facility as required in section
  841 (b) (2) of the Higher Education Amendments of 1998. An agreement
  documenting the commitment of the private entity to provide matching funds for
  the support of the facility in an amount equal to 4 times the amount of the
  contribution of the State or local public entity. (4) An explanation of the
  proposed contribution of the State or local public entity and documentation
  showing that not more than 20 percent of the matching funds will be provided
  by the Federal government. (5) A description of how the endowment will be
  created to fund any and all shortfalls in the costs of the on-going operations of
  the facility and expected sources of these funds. (6) A statement as to whether
  the applicant institution intends to establish a network of satellite centers
  throughout the United States to help disseminate information regarding the
  underground railroad. If the applicants institution does intend to establish a
  network, documentation showing how the satellite centers will raise 80 percent
  of the funds required from nonfederal public and private sources. (7) A detailed
  description of how the applicant intends to electronically link the facility with
  other local and regional facilities that have collections and programs which
  interpret the history of the underground railroad, including a listing of the
  facilities the applicant intends to include.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Nonprofit educational organizations that are established to research, display,
  interpret and collect artifacts relating to the history of the underground railroad.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Nonprofit certification including a description of the purpose for which the
  organization was established.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Contact the program office for application information. This program is eligible
  for coverage under E.O. 12372. "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Application Procedure:
  All applications should clearly designate a contact person, telephone number,
  and the e-mail address of the contact person. Applicants should submit the
  original application. Copies are not necessary. Applications must be postmarked
  on or before June 30.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register; contact the Program Office
  for more information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  One month.
Appeals:
