  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Dependent upon the availability of appropriations.                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  An agreement documenting the commitment of the private entity to provide             
  matching funds for the support of the facility in an amount equal to 4 times the     
  amount of the contribution of the State or local public entity is required. An       
  explanation of the proposed contribution of the State or local public entity and     
  documentation showing that not more than 20 percent of the matching funds            
  will be provided by the Federal government is also required.                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  One year.                                                                            
Reports:                                                                               
  For each fiscal year for which the organization receives funding under this          
  section, a report must be submitted to the Secretary of Education that contains a    
  description of the programs and activities supported by the funding, the audited     
  financial statement of the organization for the preceding fiscal year, and a plan    
  for the programs and activities to be supported. The Secretary may require an        
  evaluation of the programs and activities supported by the funding.                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                
  91-0201-0-1-502.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,980,000; FY 08 $1,945,410; and FY 09 est $1,945,410.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $500,000 to $1,000,000; the       
  average award is expected to be $973,000.                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Two awards are expected to be made in FY 2008.                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations.                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Department of Education, Office of Postsecondary Education, 400 Maryland             
  Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Claire Cornell. E-mail:                 
  claire.cornell@ed.gov; Telephone: (202) 502-7609.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/ugroundrr/index.html.

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  National Underground Railroad Freedom Center (FC) (XE 'NATIONAL

                                                                                       
  UNDERGROUND RAILROAD FREEDOM CENTER"\f"i")(Cincinnati, Ohio)

                                                                                       
  - The 2007 grant award will be used to further and support the FC's mission to

                                                                                       
  reveal stories about the Underground Railroad and freedom's heroes, past and

                                                                                       
  present, challenging and inspiring everyone to take courageous steps for freedom

                                                                                       
  today. The grant will implement a robust schedule of special speakers, events,

                                                                                       
  programs, community forums, and changing exhibits. FC exhibits consist of six

                                                                                       
  permanent experiences and two changing galleries. Grant funds will also be used

                                                                                       
  to manage the Center's highly-visited Web site, which serves an important role

                                                                                       
  in itself to inform and educate our virtual visitors. Grant funds will also be used

                                                                                       
  toward services specifically for FC's annual base of 50,000 visiting school

                                                                                       
  children coming from cities all across the country. entitled "Revolution!" which

                                                                                       
  continues the efforts of our landmark exhibitions "Slavery in New York" (2005)

                                                                                       
  and "New York Divided: Slavery and the Civil War" (2006) to examine the

                                                                                       
  "contagion of freedom" that buttressed the Underground Railroad. The project

                                                                                       
  shows how revolutions in America, France, and Haiti uniquely defined notions

                                                                                       
  of freedom, equality, and human rights, and in fact played a key role in the

                                                                                       
  abolition of slavery in the United States by serving as a foundation for the

                                                                                       
  rhetoric and activism of abolitionists such as Frederick Douglass, William Lloyd

                                                                                       
  Garrison, David Walker, David Ruggles, Henry Highland Garnet, James

                                                                                       
  McCune Smith, and many other key figures in the Underground Railroad. A

                                                                                       
  comprehensive exhibition Web site with links to likeminded institutions, as well

                                                                                       
  as a traveling version of the show, will extend the life of the exhibition and reach

                                                                                       
  an enormous and diverse local, national, and international audience.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Contact the Program Office for information.                                          
                                                                                       
84.349 EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATOR PROFESSIONAL                                           
DEVELOPMENT                                                                            


                                                                                 11-08 
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended, Title II, Part A, Subpart
  5, section 2151 (e).
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote school readiness and improved learning outcomes of young children
  by providing high-quality professional development programs to improve the
  knowledge and skills of early childhood educators and caregivers who work in
  early childhood programs located in high-poverty communities and who serve
  primarily children from low-income families. This professional development
  must primarily provide training that will improve early childhood pedagogy and
  will further children's language and literacy skills to prevent them from
  encountering reading difficulties when they enter school.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Successful applicants must use these funds to carry out the activities described
  in their approved applications. Grant recipients, must, for example, use funds
  for reasonable costs needed to provide high-quality, research-based professional
  development opportunities for early childhood educators working in urban and
  rural communities with high concentrations of young children living in poverty,
  enrolled in programs such as: Title I preschools, Head Start, Even Start Family
  Literacy programs, and publicly funded or subsidized child care. The indirect
  cost rate is limited to the maximum of eight percent or the amount permitted by
  its negotiated indirect cost rate agreement, whichever is less.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Institutions of higher education, State agencies for higher education, local
  educational agencies, State educational agencies, and other public and private
  agencies, organizations, and institutions such as child care consortiums and
  Head Start programs. Specifically, prtnerships of: (a) a professional
  development provider; (b) public agencies, Head Start agencies, or private
  organizations; and (c), if feasible, an entity with experience in training early
  childhood educators about identifying and preventing behavioral problems or
  with experience in working with children who are victims of abuse.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Early childhood educators who work in early childhood programs located in
  urban or rural high-poverty communities and who primarily serve children from
  low-income families.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,"Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with the notice
  published in the Federal Register. By the due date, eligible applicants must
  submit to the Department of Education, Application Control Center, a complete
  application that addresses the purposes of the program, the selection criteria, the
  absolute priority included in the application notice, and includes all required
  assurances and signatures. Required assurances and certifications include:
  Group Application Certification (if applicable); Assurances for Non-
  Construction Programs (SF 422B); Certification regarding Lobbying,
  Debarment; Suspension and Other Responsibility Matter, and Drug-Free
  Workplace Requirements (ED Form 80-0013); Disclosure of Lobbying
  Activities (SF LLL) (if applicable); Response to Notice to All Applicants
  (Section 427, GEPA). Applications should also include a Cover Page (SF424);
  the required Budget Form (ED Form 524); an itemized budget and other budget
  information; proof of eligibility; a project abstract; and a program narrative that
  includes responses to selection criteria. Applicants are encouraged to submit
  one original and two copies of their application.
Award Procedure:
  The Department of Education notifies applicants of award results. Contact the
  Program Office for more information.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register. You may also contact the
  Program Office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 to 120 days
  following the application deadline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Applicants may apply for a project period of up to four years. Renewals are
  subject to the availability of appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
                                                                                  1169
