  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Projects are funded for a period of up to four years. Renewals are subject to the  
  availability of appropriations.                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  Progress reports must be submitted at the end of each budget period in order to    
  receive continuation awards. Performance reports must be submitted at the end      
  of the grant period.                                                               
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administrative                 
  Regulations (EDGAR) in 34 CFR 80, State and local governments that receive         
  financial assistance of $100,000 or more within the State's fiscal year shall have 
  an audit made for that year. State and local governments that receive between      
  $25,000 and $100,000 within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit made in    
  accordance with the Appendix to EDGAR, Part 80.                                    
Records:                                                                             
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act (GEPA) and the             
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), certain           
  records must be retained for three years.                                          
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-1000-0-1-501.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $14,549,000; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est $0.                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  The average award was $3,366,746.                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  4 awards were made in 2007.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 74,         
  75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, 97, 98, and 99.                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Department of Education, OESE Early Childhood Educator Professional                
  Development 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-6132. Contact:           
   Rosemary Fennell, E-mail: eceprofdev@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 260-0792.           
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/eceducator/index.html.

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                     
  84.010, Title I Grants to Local Educational Agencies; 84.359, Early Reading

                                                                                     
  First; 84.213, Even Start_State Educational Agencies; 84.281, Eisenhower

                                                                                     
  Professional Development State Grants.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                     
  These professional development programs are partnerships between Institutions

                                                                                     
  of Higher Education and providers of early childhood education that provide        
  research-based training that will improve early childhood pedagogy and will        
  further children's language and literacy skills to prevent them from encountering  
  reading difficulties when they enter school.                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The selection criteria contained in EDGAR, 34 CFR 75.209 and 75.210 are used

                                                                                     
  to evaluate applications.                                                          
                                                                                     
84.350 TRANSITION TO TEACHING                                                        
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                     
  OFFICE OF INNOVATION AND IMPROVEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF

                                                                                     
  EDUCATION

                                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                     
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act; Title II, Part C, Subpart 1, Chapter B.

                                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                     
  To recruit and retrain highly qualified midcareer professionals (including highly

                                                                                     
  qualified paraprofessionals) and recent graduates of institutions of higher

                                                                                     
  education, as teachers in high-need schools, including recruiting teachers

                                                                                     
  through alternative routes to teacher certification; and to encourage the

                                                                                     
  development and expansion of alternative routes to certification under state-

                                                                                     
  approved programs that enable individuals to be eligible for teacher certification

                                                                                     
  within a reduced period of time, relying on the experience, expertise, and

                                                                                     
  academic qualifications of an individual or other factors in lieu of traditional

                                                                                     
  course work in the field of education.                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.

                                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                     
  To develop a program to recruit, select, screen, train and place individuals (mid-

                                                                                     
  career individuals and qualified recent college graduates) to become licensed

                                                                                     
  and successful teachers in high-need areas to help reduce the teacher shortage in  
  local educational agencies. This program is subject to non-supplanting             
  requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced      
  under 34 CFR 75.563. For assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial         
  Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  State educational agencies; high-need local educational agencies; for profit and

1170                                                                           11-08

  nonprofit organizations with proven records of effectively recruiting and
  retaining highly qualified teachers, in partnerships with high-need local
  educational agencies or State educational agencies; institutions of higher
  education, in partnerships with high-need local educational agencies or State
  educational agencies; regional consortia of State educational agencies; and
  consortia of high-need local educational agencies.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Mid-career professionals from various fields who possess strong subject-matter
  skills to become teachers; recent college graduates with baccalaureate degrees in
  the academic subjects that the individuals will teach; LEA's with critical teacher
  shortages, particularly in the fields of mathematics, science, foreign languages,
  bilingual education, reading, and special education.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applicant must submit the following by the designated deadline: (1) The
  applicant must provide a written narrative which addresses the selection criteria
  (and the required application content) that reviewers use in evaluating their
  applications. This Section must be limited to no more than 50 double-spaced
  pages. (2) Required forms to be submitted with the application include SF-424;
  Sections A, B, and C of ED Form 524; Assurance - Non Construction Programs;
  Certifications Regarding Lobbying, Debarment, Suspension and Other
  Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements; Disclosure of
  Lobbying Activity; Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility
  and Voluntary Exclusion - Lower Tier Covered Transactions.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by the agency for eligibility and completeness.
  Applications are reviewed and scored by a panel of experts. Applications are
  ranked according to score by funding category; i.e., national, State, or local
  applicant. A funding slate is prepared and the highest funded applications are
  recommended for funding. Successful and unsuccessful applicants are notified
  of outcome. Grant awards are prepared and mailed to successful grantees.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office
  for more information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 days.
Appeals:
  Part 86 - Subpart E of the Education Department General Administrative
  Regulations (EDGAR) outlines procedures governing appeals of decisions by a
  designated Department official to demand the repayment of Federal financial
  assistance or terminate the eligibility of an institution of higher education, State
  educational agency or local educational agency.
Renewals:
  Applicants may apply for a project period of up to 3 years. Renewals are subject
  to the availability of appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects may be funded for a period of 36 months. Renewals are subject to the
  availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  Performance reports are due 90 days after expiration or termination of the award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), certain financial
  records must be maintained for a period of three years.
Account Identification:
  91-0204-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $44,484,000; FY 08 $43,707,000; and FY 09 est $43,707.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $98,852 to $3,074,773; the
  average award is expected to be $426,324.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Approximately 102 continuation awards are expected in FY 2008.
