REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Regulations and guidelines were published in the Federal Register in April 2001.  
  Contact the Program Office for more information.                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Department of Education, OII Teacher Quality Programs 400 Maryland Ave.,          
  S.W., Washington, DC 20202-6100; Contact: Thelma Leenhouts, E-mail                
  Address thelma.leenhouts@ed.gov; Telephone (202) 260-0223.                        
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/transitionteach/index.html.                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  The Florida Department of Education has received grants under this program in     
  2002 and 2006, to recruit, train, and place mid-career professionals, including   
  highly-qualifed paraprofessionals, and recent college graduates in teaching       
  positions through partnerships with several high-need school districts. The 2002  
  cohort has placed 487 out of 679 participants, and the 2006 cohort has placed all 
  of its 37 participants, as teachers at record in high-need schools in high-need   
  districts.                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  The selection criteria are contained in the Education Department General          
  Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) 34 CFR 75.210. Contact the program             
  office for more information.                                                      
                                                                                    
84.351 ARTS IN EDUCATION                                                            
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF INNOVATION AND IMPROVEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                               
  EDUCATION                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), as amended, Title V, Part D,       
  Subpart 15.                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide competitive grants that support the integration of the arts into the   
  elementary and secondary school curriculum, with particular focus on improving    
  the academic achievement of low-income students.                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Grants are awarded on a competitive basis to support the following types of       
  activities: (1)research on arts education; (2)development and dissemination of    
  model school-based arts education programs; (3)development of model State arts    
  education assessments based on State academic achievement standards;              
  (4)development of curriculum frameworks in the arts; (5)development of model      
  professional development programs in the arts for teachers and administrators;    
  (6)support collabrative activities with Federal agencies or institutions involved 
  in arts education, arts educators, and organizations representing the arts; and   
  (7)support of model programs to integrate arts education into the regular         
  elementary and secondary school curriculum. This program is subject to non-       
  supplanting requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is    
  referenced under 34 CFR 75.563. For assistance call the Office of Chief           
  Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on 202-708-7770.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  State educational agencies; local educational agencies; institutions of higher    
  education; museums and other cultural institutions; and any other public or       
  private agencies, institutions, or organizations.                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Arts educators and administrators, preservice and inservice programs for          
  teachers.                                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental        
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the official or          
  official designated as the single point of contact in his/her State for more      
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for      
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                     
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The applicant must submit the following by the designated deadline: Written       
  narrative addressing the selection criteria and application content; readers read 
  and evaluate how well an applicant has addressed the criteria; all required forms:
   SF 424; A,B,C,D of Form 525; Assurances Non-Construction programs;               
  Certification Regarding Lobbying, Debarment and Suspension; Drug-Free             
  Workplace Requirements; Disclosure of Lobbying Activity; Certification            
  Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility, and Voluntary Exclusion -         
  Lower Tiered Covered Transactions.                                                
Award Procedure:

  Applications are reviewed by the agency for eligibility and completeness;



                                                                               11-08
  applications are reviewed and scored by a panel of experts; and applications are
  ranked according to raw scores. A funding slate is prepared and the highest
  ranked applications are recommended for funding. Successful and unsuccessful
  applicants are notified of the outcome, and grant awards are prepared and mailed
  to successful grantees.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register; contact the Program Office for
  more information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 10 120 days
  following the application deadline.
Appeals:
  Part 86, Subpart E, of the Education Department General Administrative
  Regulations (EDGAR) outlines procedures governing appeals of decisions by a
  designated Department official to demand the repayment of Federal financial
  assistance or terminate the eligibility of an Institution of Higher Education, State
  educational agency or local educational agency.
Renewals:
  Applicants may apply for a project period of up to three years. Continuation
  awards are subject to the availability of appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants under Subpart A may be awarded for up to 36 months; grants under
  Subpart B may be awarded for up to 60 months. Continuation awards are
  subject to the availability of funds and substantial progress by the grantee.
Reports:
  Performance Reports are due within six to ten months of the initial award date;
  these reports are used to determine whether the grantee has made substantial
  progress toward meeting the project objectives and should or should not receive
  continuation funding.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), certain financial
  records must be maintained for a period of three years.
Account Identification:
  91-0204-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $35,277,000; FY 08 est $37,533,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range of new awards: $100,000 to $350,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Approximately 85 new and continuation awards were madein FY 08.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Department of Education General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR).
  Contact the Program Office for additional information.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, 400
  Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact: (Model Development
  and Dissemination Grants)-Diane Austin, E-mail: diane.austin@ed.gov.
  Telephone (202)260-1280; (Professional Development for Arts Educators
  Grants-Isadora Binder, E-mail: isadora.binder@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 260-
  3778.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/artsed/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Model Development and Dissemination Grants Program, supports the
  development, documentation, evaluation and dissemination of innovative
  models that seek to integrate and strengthen arts instruction in elementary and
  middle schools and improve students; academic in the arts. The Professional
  Development for Arts Educators grants achievement, support the development of
  model professional development programs for music, dance, drama, and visual
  arts educators.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Selection criteria are contained in the Education Department General
  Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) 34 CFR 75.210.
                                                                                   1171
