84.354 CREDIT ENHANCEMENT FOR CHARTER SCHOOL                                           
FACILITIES                                                                             
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF INNOVATION AND IMPROVEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
  EDUCATION                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title V, Part B,         
  Subpart 2.                                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide grants to eligible entities to leverage funds through credit              
  enhancement initiatives in order to assist charter schools in using private-sector   
  capital to acquire, construct, renovate, or lease academic facilities.               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grant recipients shall deposit the funds received under this program (other than     
  funds used for administrative costs) in a reserve account established and            
  maintained by the entity for this purpose. Amounts deposited in such an account      
  shall be used by the entity to help charter schools access private-sector capital    
  for acquiring, renovating, or constructing facilities. Reserve accounts must be      
  used for one or more of the following purposes: (1)Guaranteeing, insuring, and       
  reinsuring bonds, notes, evidences of debt, loans, and interests therein;            
  (2)Guaranteeing and insuring leases of personal and real property; (3)Facilitating   
  financing by identifying potential lending sources and encouraging private           
  lending and other similar activities that directly promote lending to, or are        
  conducted for the benefit of, charter schools; and (4)Facilitating the issuance of   
  bonds by charter schools or by public entities for the benefit of charter schools.   
  This may be accomplished by providing technical, administrative, and other           
  appropriate assistance, including the recruitment of bond counsel, underwriters,     
  and potential investors and the consolidation of multiple charter school projects    
  within a single bond issue.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  A public entity, such as a State or local government entity, a private nonprofit     
  entity, or a consortium of such entities may apply.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Public charter schools as defined in Section 10310, ESEA.                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with a notice              
  published in the Federal Register. By the due date, eligible applicants must         
  submit to the Department of Education a complete application that addresses the      
  purposes of the program, the selection criteria, and any priorities included in the  
  application notice, and includes all required assurances and signatures.             
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult          
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State

  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying    
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.

Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The Department of Education awards these grants on a competitive basis. The          
  program office notifies successful applicants of awards and negotiates and           
  awards grants. Contact the program office for more information.                      
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the program office for application deadlines and information.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 to 120 days               
  following the application deadline.                                                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  The General Education Provisions Act hearing procedures regarding recovery of        
  funds are applicable to this program.                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Continuation awards are subject to the availability of appropriations.               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  FY 2008, funds under this program are available for the Department of                
  Education to obligate by September 30, 2008. Once these funds are obligated,         
  they must be expended from the Federal account by September 30, 2013. In             
  addition, two years after the grantee's receipt of grant funds, the Secretary may    
  collect any or all funds in a reserve account if the grantee has not made            
  substantial progress or is no longer using the funds for their specified purpose.    
Reports:                                                                               
  Each eligible entity receiving a grant under this program annually shall submit to   




1172                                                                             11-08

  the Secretary a report of its operations and activities. Each such annual report
  shall include-- (1) a copy of the most recent financial statements, and any
  accompanying opinion on such statements, prepared by the independent public
  accountant reviewing the financial records of the eligible entity; (2) a copy of
  any report made on an audit of the financial records of the eligible entity that
  was conducted during the reporting period; (3) an evaluation by the eligible
  entity of the effectiveness of its use of the Federal funds in leveraging private
  funds; (4) a listing and description of the charter schools served during the
  reporting period; (5) a description of the activities carried out by the eligible
  entity to assist charter schools; and (6) a description of the characteristics of
  lenders and other financial institutions participating in the activities undertaken
  by the eligible entity during the reporting period.
Audits:
  The financial records of each eligible entity receiving a grant under this subpart
  shall be maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
  and shall be subject to an annual audit by an independent public accountant.
Records:
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), certain records must
  be retained for three years after the end of the grant.
Account Identification:
  91-0204-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $36,611,000; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est $36,611,000. The
  Department will use $8,300,000 from the FY 2008 appropriation for Charter
  School grants for the Credit Enhancement for Charter School Facilities.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Estimated award: $8,300,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2008, one new award was made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 74,
  75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, 97, 98, and 99.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OII Parental Options and Information, 400 Maryland
  Ave., S.W., Rm. 3C140, FB-6 Washington, DC 20202-6140. Contact Jim
  Houser, E-mail: jim.houser@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 401-0307.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/charterfacilities/index.html .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.282, Charter Schools.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  With a focus on leveraging funds for charter school facilities, projects guarantee
  and insure debt to finance charter school facilities; guarantee and insure leases
  for property; facilitate charter schools facilities fanancing by identifying
  potential lending services; and establish temporary charter school facilities that
  new charter schools can use until they are able to acquire their own facility.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The selection criteria contained in EDGAR, 34 CFR 75.209 and 75.210 are used
  to evaluate applications. For additional information contact the program office.
84.356 ALASKA NATIVE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), as amended, Title VII, Part
  C.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support projects that recognize and address the unique educational needs of
  Alaska Native students and to support supplemental education programs to
  benefit Alaska Natives.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Allowable activities include, but are not limited to: the development of curricula
  and education programs that address the educational needs of Alaska Native
  students; the development and operation of student enrichment programs in
  science and mathematics; professional development activities for educators;
  activities carried out through Even Start programs and Head Start programs;
  family literacy services; and dropout prevention programs. An eligible entity
  may use not more than 10 percent of the funds received under this subpart for
  the administrative costs of carrying out its responsibilities under this Subpart.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Alaska Native organizations, education entities with experience in developing or
  operating Alaska Native programs or programs of instruction conducted in
  Alaska Native languages, cultural and community-based organizations with
