  experience in developing or operating programs to benefit Alaska Natives, and      
  consortia of organizations may apply. A State educational agency (SEA) or local    
  educational agency (LEA) may apply as part of a consortium involving an            
  Alaska Native organization. The consortia may include other eligible applicants.   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Alaska Natives as defined in Public Law 103-382.                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official

                                                                                     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information

  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with a notice            
  published in the Federal Register. By the due date, eligible applicants must       
  submit to the Department of Education a complete application that addresses the    
  purposes of the program, the selection criteria, and any priorities included in the
  application notice, and includes all required assurances and signatures.           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Department of Education awards these grants on a competitive basis. The        
  Program Office notifies successful applicants of awards and negotiates and         
  awards grants. Contact the Program Office for more information.                    
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact the Program Office for application deadlines and information.              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 to 120 days             
  following the application deadline.                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  The General Education Provisions Act hearing procedures regarding recovery of      
  funds are applicable to this program.                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Renewals are subject to the availability of appropriations.                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Funds under this program are available for the Department of Education to          
  obligate by September 30, of the fiscal year for which they are appropriated.      
  Once these funds are obligated, they must be expended from the Federal account     
  by September 30, of the subsequent fiscal year. In addition, two years after the   
  grantee's receipt of grant funds, the Secretary may collect any or all funds in a  
  reserve account if the grantee has not made substantial progress or is no longer   
  using the funds for their specified purpose. Continuation awards are subject to    
  the availability of appropriations.                                                
Reports:                                                                             
  Each eligible entity receiving a grant under this program annually shall submit to 
  the Secretary a report of its operations and activities. Each annual report shall  
  include: (1) An executive summary; (2) a project status; (3) budget information;   
  and (4) supplemental information.                                                  
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No A-133 (Revised June 27,       
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"         
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education          
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), certain records must        
  be retained for 3 years after the end of the grant.                                
Account Identification:                                                              
  91-1000-0-1-501.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $33,907,000; FY 08 est $33,315,000; and FY 09 est $0.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Range of new awards: $105,000 - $1,052,000.                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 2008, 14 new awards and 38 continuation awards were made.                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 74,         
  75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, 97, 98, and 99.                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  U.S. Department of Education, OESE School Improvement Programs 400                 
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202-6140. Contact: Alexis Fisher.            
  Telephone: (202) 401-0281. E-mail: alexis.fisher@ed.gov.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/alaskanative/index.html.

                                                                                11-08
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Early childhood and family programs emphasizing school readiness; enrichment
  programs in reading, math, and science; native language and cultural education
  instruction; and school-to-work transition programs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The selection criteria contained in EDGAR, 34 CFR 75.209 and 75.210 are used
  to evaluate applications. Contact the program office for additional information.
84.357 READING FIRST STATE GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title I, Part B,
  Subpart 1.
OBJECTIVES:
  To ensure that every student can read at grade level or above by the end of third
  grade. The Reading First program provides assistance to States and districts in
  establishing reading programs for students in kindergarten through third grade
  that are based on scientifically based reading research. Reading First also
  focuses on teacher development and ensuring that all teachers, including special
  education teachers, have the tools they need to effectively help their students
  learn to read. The program provides assistance to States and districts in
  preparing teachers to identify specific reading barriers facing their students.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Each State educational agency (SEA) receiving a grant shall use the funds to
  establish reading programs that are based on scientifically based reading
  research. This program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and grantees
  must use a restricted indirect cost rate that is referenced under 34 CFR 76-564-
  76.569. For assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Indirect
  Cost Group at 202-708-7770.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State Education Agencies from the 50 States, Puerto Rico, the District of
  Columbia, the DOI Bureau of Indian Education, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam,
  American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Kindergarten through third-grade students, their teachers, and their parents are
  benefit from this program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,"Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  In their Reading First State grant applications, States describe their plans to
  provide competitive subgrants to targeted schools and districts and to use
  significant State leadership funds in order to improve reading instruction and
  student achievement. Applications must be prepared and submitted in
  accordance with the notice published in the Federal Register. By the due date,
  eligible applicants must submit to the Department of Education, Office of
  Elementary and Secondary Education, a complete application that addresses the
  purposes of the program and includes all required assurances and signatures.
  Required assurances and certifications include: Assurances for Non-
  Construction Programs (SF-422B); Certification regarding Lobbying,
  Debarment; Suspension and Other Responsibility Matter, and Drug-Free
  Workplace Requirements (ED Form 80- 0013); Disclosure of Lobbying
  Activities (SF LLL) (if applicable); Response to Notice to All Applicants
  (Section 427, GEPA), and Section 9306 of the Elementary and Secondary
  Education Act (Other General Assurances). Applications should also include a
  Cover Page (SF-424); the required Budget Form (ED Form 524); an itemized
  budget and other budget information; proof of eligibility; a project abstract; and
  a program narrative that includes responses to selection criteria. Applicants are
  encouraged to submit (1) one original and (2) copies of their application.
Award Procedure:
  Grant applications are reviewed by outside, expert panels. The expert panels
  recommend to the Secretary of Education those applications that meet the
  standards of the review criteria. Based on the panels' recommendations, the
  Department makes the grant awards. The Department of Education will notifies
  successful applicants of their awards. Contact the Program Office for more
  information.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register.
                                                                                   1173
