Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  None.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Continuation funding depends upon future program appropriations and               
  demonstrated substantial progress toward meeting the grant's goals and            
  objectives.                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  The Department awards grants through a formula based on the State's share of      
  children aged 5-17 whose families have incomes below the poverty line, after      
  first reserving 1/2 of 1 percent for the Outlying Areas and 1/2 of 1 percent for  
  Bureau of Indian Education schools.                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  A Reading First grant to a State educational agency is awarded for up to 6 years, 
  subject to sufficient appropriations and submission and review of progress        
  reports.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                            
  Grantees must submit performance reports annually. The program office             
  establishes a due date. Final performance reports must be submitted within 90     
  days after the end of the grant award period.                                     
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expand financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  Records must be maintained for 3 years after the fiscal year in which the         
  expenditure was made by the grantee, or until the grantee is notified of the      
  completion of the Federal fiscal audit. In all cases of audit questions, records  
  must be maintained until resolution has occurred.                                 
Account Identification:                                                             
  91-0900-0-1-501.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,029,234,000; FY 08 est $393,012,000; and FY 09 est              
  $1,000,000,000.                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  For FY 2008, the estimated range of awards to SEAs is $935,641 to $48,953,409

                                                                                    
  with an average award of $7,197,242.

                                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Grants support Reading First programs in all 50 States, the District of Columbia,

                                                                                    
  Puerto Rico, Bureau of Indian Education schools, and the outlying areas.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 76,

                                                                                    
  77, 79, 80, 82, 85, 97, 98, 99.                                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Reading First Program, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education,              
  Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC                
  20202-6100. Contact: Joseph Conaty. E-mail: Joseph.conaty@ed.gov.                 
  Telephone: (202) 401-0113.                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/readingfirst/index.html.

                                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                    
  84.359, Early Reading First.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Funds support increased professional development to ensure that all teachers      
  have the skills they need to teach reading effectively. The program also supports 
  the use of screening and diagnostic tools and classroom-based instructional       
                                                                                    
  reading assessments to measure how well students are reading and to monitor

                                                                                    
  their progress.

                                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  Selection criteria are contained in the program guidelines. Contact the Program   
  Office for more information.                                                      
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
84.358 RURAL EDUCATION                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, Title VI, Part B.                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To provide financial assistance to rural districts to carry out activities to help
  improve the quality of teaching and learning in their schools.                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Formula Grants.                                                                   


1174                                                                                
        USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
          Grantees under the Small, Rural School Achievement Program component may
          use program funds to carry out activities authorized under: Title I-Part A
          (Grants to LEAs); Title II- Part A (Improving Teacher Quality State Grants);
          Title II-Part D (Educational Technology State Grants); Title III (Language
          Instruction for Limited English Proficient and Immigrant Students); Title IV-Part
          A (Safe and Drug-Free Schools and Communities State Grants); Title IV-Part B
          (21st Century Community Learning Centers); and Title V-Part A (State Grants
          for Innovative Programs). Grantees under the Rural and Low- Income School
          Program component may use program funds for: teacher recruitment and
          retention; teacher professional development; educational technology; parental
          involvement activities; activities authorized under ESEA Title IV-Part A (Safe
          and Drug-Free Schools and Communities); activities authorized under ESEA
          Title I-Part A (Grants to LEAs); and activities authorized under ESEA Title III
          (Language Instruction for Limited English Proficient and Immigrant Students).
          This program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and must use a
          restricted indirect cost rate that is referenced under 34 CFR 75-564-76.569. For
          assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on
          202-708-7770.
        Applicant Eligibility:
          For the Small, Rural School Achievement Program eligible recipients are local
          educational agencies (LEAs) in which (1) the total number of students in
          average daily attendance at all of the schools served by the LEA is less than 600
          or where each school in the LEA is located in a county with a total population
          density of less than 10 persons per square mile; and (2) all of the schools served
          by the LEA are designated as rural under the U.S. Department of Education's
          National Center for Education Statistics (NCES) using the NCES school locale
          mathodology in place at the time of NCLB's enactment or the LEA is located in
          an area of the State defined as a rural by a State governmental agency. For the
          Rural and Low-Income School Program eligible recipients are State educational
          agencies. States then must distribute funds to local educational agencies (LEAs)
          through a formula or competitive basis. An LEA is eligible to receive a grant
          under this program only if (1) it is not eligible for funds under the Small, Rural
          School Achievement Program; (2) at least 20% of the school children ages 5-17
          in the LEA come from families with incomes below the poverty line; and (3) all
          of the schools served by the LEA are designated with a School Locale Code of 6,
          7 or 8 under the Department of Education's National Center for Education
          Statistics (NCES) locator system using the NCES school locale mathodology in
          place at the time of NCLB's enactment. If an SEA chooses not to participate in
          the program, the Secretary uses the State's allocation to make direct grants to
          eligible LEAs in the State.
        Beneficiary Eligibility:
          Elementary and secondary schools, students, and teachers in rural schools will
          benefit.
        Credentials/Documentation:
          None.
        Preapplication Coordination:
          None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
        Application Procedure:
          For the Small, Rural School Achievement Program component, the Department
          considers the application requirement to be met though, if the LEA submitted an
          application in any prior year and has drawn down payments LEAs annually
          submit applications to the Department of Education. The Department considers
          the application requirement to be met through, if the LEA submitted an
          application in any prior year and has drawan down payments from the
          Department's Grant Administration and payment system in subequent years.
          Application forms are available from the headquarters office. For the Program
          component, an SEA must submit an application that includes specific,
          measurable goals and objectives for the activities to be carried out through the
          grant. If an SEA does not participate in the program, eligible LEAs in the State
          may submit an application directly to the Department.
        Award Procedure:
          For the Small, Rural School Achievement Program component, awards are
          issued annually directly to eligible LEAs on a formula basis. Awards are made to
          all that apply and meet the applicable requirements of the Act. Contact the
          program office for more information. For the Rural and Low-Income School
          Program component, awards are issued annually to SEAs, which make
          subgrants to LEAs. Awards are made to all SEAs that apply and meet the
          applicable requirements of the Act. If an SEA does not participate, awards are
          issued to eligible LEAs in the State either competitively or by formula.
        Deadlines:
          Application submissions deadlines are established annually and published in the
          Federal Register.
        Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
          120 days.
        Appeals:
          None.
        Renewals:
          None.
        Formula and Matching Requirements:
11-08
