  For the Small, Rural School Achievement Program component, LEA allocations        
  are based on a statutory formula which weighs ADA numbers and the LEA's           
  prior year's allocations under ESEA Title II-subpart 2, Title II-section          
  2412(a)(2)(A), Title IV- section 4114, and Title V-Part A. Contact the program    
  office for more specific information. For the Rural and Low-Income School         
  Program component, SEA allocations are based on the ADA numbers of eligible       
  LEA recipients. SEAs may make subgrants through formula or by competition.        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Grants are awarded for one year.                                                  
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual financial and performance reports are due within 90 days of the            
  termination of the project period.                                                
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  Records must be maintained three years after the completion of the activity for   
  which grant funds were used.                                                      
Account Identification:                                                             
  91-1000-0-1-501.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $168,918,000; FY 08 est $171,854,000; and FY 09 est                
  $171,854.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  For FY 2008, the range of awards for the Small Rural School Achievement           
  program is expected to be $38 to $60,000; the average award is expected to be     
  $20,740. The range of awards for the Rural and Low Income School program is       
  expected to be $21,436 to $7,642,838; the average is expected to be $68,907.      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In FY 2008, approximately 4,080 LEAs are expected to receive Small, rural         
  school achievement grants and 1,247 LEAs are expected to receive Rural and        
  low-income schools grants.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  34 CFR 76, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 97, 98 and 99.                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education, 400        
  Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact: Eric Schulz, E-mail:        
   reap@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 260-7349.                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/reapsrsa/index.html.                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                    
  Rural districts receive grants, either directly or through State educational

                                                                                    
  agencies, to assist them in meeting their State's definition of adequare yearly

                                                                                    
  progress.

                                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  Contact the program office for information.                                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
84.359 EARLY READING FIRST                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 as amended, Title I, Part B,       
  Subpart 2.                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To support local efforts to enhance the early language, literacy, and prereading  
  development of preschool age children, particularly those from low-income         
  families, through instructional strategies and professional development based on  
  scientifically based reading research. Early Reading First programs must have a   
  high-quality oral language and print-rich environment, and must monitor           
  children's progress toward language, literacy, and cognitive goals using          
                                                                                    
  screening reading assessments and other appropriate measures.

                                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                    
  Project Grants (Discretionary).

                                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  Program funds support projects designed to help early childhood centers           
                                                                                    
  improve their programs by creating centers of excellence that provide preschool-

                                                                                    
  age children with language and cognitive skills, and an early reading foundation.

                                                                                    
  Funds must be used to: enhance children's language, cognitive, and early

                                                                                    
  reading skills through professional development for teachers; provide early

                                                                                    
  language and reading development and instructional materials as developed from

                                                                              11-08 
  scientifically based reading research; provide preschool-age children with
  cognitive learning opportunities in high-quality language and literature-rich
  environments; use screening assessments to effectively identify preschool
  children who may be at risk for reading failure; and improve existing early
  childhood programs by integrating scientifically based reading research into all
  aspects of the program (including instructional materials, teaching strategies,
  curricula, parent engagement, and professional development).
Applicant Eligibility:
  The following are eligible to apply for an Early Reading First grant: (1) One or
  more local educational agencies that are eligible to receive a Reading First State
  grant subgrant; (2) One or more public or private organizations of agencies,
  acting on behalf of one or more programs that serve preschool age children (such
  as a Head Start program, a child care program, an Even Start Family literacy
  program, a lab school at a university), located in a community that is eligible for
  a Reading First grant; (3) One or more local educational agencies described in
  (1), in collaboration with one or more organizations or agencies described in (2).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Early childhood staff and children in early childhood programs will benefit from
  this program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Eligible applicants who wish to receive an Early Reading First grant must
  submit a pre-application of no more than ten pages which addresses four criteria:
  the program's vision, program plan, continuity of services, and how they will
  measure the program's success. The pre-application must also include an
  estimated budget. Further information on preparing the pre-application can be
  found in the Federal Register and the Application package. Only those
  submissions rated highly in this competitive peer review process and deemed to
  have the potential to become successful projects will be invited to submit full
  Early Reading First applications. This program is eligible for coverage under
  E.O. 12372,"Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant
  should consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in
  his or her State for more information on the process the State requires to be
  followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for
  review.
Application Procedure:
  Those applicants who are invited to submit a full application must prepare and
  submit them in accordance with the notice published in the Federal Register. By
  the due date, eligible applicants must submit to the U.S. Department of
  Education, Application Control Center, a complete application that addresses the
  purposes of the program, the selection criteria, the competitive priority included
  in the application notice, and includes all required assurances and signatures.
  Required assurances and certifications include: Assurances for Non-
  Construction Programs (SF 422B); Certification regarding Lobbying,
  Debarment; Suspension and Other Responsibility Matter, and Drug-Free
  Workplace Requirements (ED Form 80-0013); Disclosure of Lobbying
  Activities (SF LLL) (if applicable); Response to Notice to All Applicants
  (Section 427, GEPA). Applications should also include a Cover Page (SF-424);
  the required Budget Form (ED Form 524); an itemized budget and other budget
  information; proof of eligibility; a project abstract; and a program narrative that
  includes responses to selection criteria. Applicants are encouraged to submit (1)
  one original and (2) copies of their application.
Award Procedure:
  The Department of Education notifies successful applicants of awards. Actual
  negotiations and awarding of grants is done by the Department's Grants and
  Contracts Service, in cooperation with the program staff. Contact the program
  office for more information.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office
  for application deadlines and information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 to 120 days
  following the full application deadline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Applicants may apply for a project period of up to six years. Renewals are
  subject to the availability of appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects are funded for a period of up to six years. Renewals are subject to the
  availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  Progress reports must be submitted at the end of each budget period in order to
  receive continuation awards. Performance reports must be submitted at the end
  of the grant period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administrative
                                                                                  1175
