  State. Key strategies include: (a) Native American community involvement in         
  program development; (b) establishment of a Native American Dropout                 
  Prevention Workgroup within ADE; (c) Native American youth leadership               
  development with a Popular Opinion Leader model; (d) establishment of teams         
  to encourage school attendance; (e) intensive tutoring to increase AIMS test        
  scores; (f) mentoring of re-entered students by Tribal employees; (g) culturally    
  competent training for teachers in engaging Native American youth; (h) social       
  marketing promoting education through tribal media and tribal sporting events;      
  and (i) behavioral health, substance abuse prevention, teen parent support          
  groups, and other supports for staying in school. The Texas School Dropout          
  Prevention and Reentry Program has four major objectives: (1) to expand current     
  personal graduation plans by replicating comprehensive modes; (2) to increase       
  partnerships between high schools and other organizations to leverage dropout       
  prevention and reentry resources; (3) to develop statwide capacity for              
  implementing specific intervention strategies; and (4) to evaluate the              
  effectiveness of State's school dropout prevention program and inform state         
  dropout prevention policy. Offering a comprehensive set of support services         
  through partnerships with government and community-based organizations may          
  allow schools to address more effectively the academic and social pressures         
  shown to influence dropping out.                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Selection criteria are contained in the program guidelines. Contact the program     
  office for more information.                                                        
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
84.361 VOLUNTARY PUBLIC SCHOOL CHOICE                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF INNOVATION AND IMPROVEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF                                 
  EDUCATION                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended; Title V, Part B, Subpart        
  3; 20 U.S.C. 7225-7225g.                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To support efforts to establish or expand intradistrict, interdistrict, and open    
  enrollment public school choice programs to provide parents, particularly           
  parents whose children attend low-performing public schools, with expanded          
  education options and with greater choice for their children's education.           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  An eligible entity that receives a grant under this subpart may use the grant       
  funds for: (1) planning or designing a program (for not more than 1 year); (2) the  
  cost of making tuition transfer payments to public elementary schools or            
  secondary schools to which students transfer under the program; (3) the cost of     
  capacity-enhancing activities that enable high-demand public elementary             
                                                                                      
  schools or secondary schools to accommodate transfer requests under the

                                                                                      
  program; (4) the cost of carrying out public education campaigns to inform

                                                                                      
  students and parents about the program; and (5) other costs reasonably necessary

                                                                                      
  to implement the program. An eligible entity that receives a grant under this

                                                                                      
  subpart may not use the grant funds for school construction. The eligible entity

                                                                                      
  may use not more than 5 percent of the funds made available through the grant

                                                                                      
  for any fiscal year for administrative expenses.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State educational agencies (SEAs); local educational agencies (LEAs); or a

                                                                                      
  partnership of either 1(a)one or more SEAs; (b) one or more LEAs or other

  public, for-profit, or nonprofit entities; and 2(a) one or more LEAs and (b) one

  or more public, for-profit, or nonprofit entities may apply.                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Public school students.                                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not applicable. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372.             
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult         
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying   
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with a notice             
  published in the Federal Register. By the due date, eligible applicants must        
  submit to the Department of Education a complete application that addresses the     
  purposes of the program, the selection criteria, and any priorities included in the 
  application notice, and includes all required assurances and signatures.            
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The Department of Education awards these grants on a competitive basis. The         
  program office notifies successful applicants of awards, negotiates final budgets,  
  and awards grants. Contact the program office for more information.                 
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office     
  for application deadlines and information.                                          


                                                                                 11-08
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 to 120 days
  following the application deadline.
Appeals:
  The General Education Provisions Act hearing procedures regarding recovery of
  funds are applicable to this program.
Renewals:
  Continuation awards are subject to the availability of appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards may be made for up to five years. Continuation awards are subject to
  the availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  Each eligible entity receiving a grant under this program annually shall submit to
  the Secretary a report of its operations and activities.
Audits:
  The financial records of each eligible entity receiving a grant under this subpart
  shall be maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
  and shall be subject to an annual audit by an independent public accountant.
Records:
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), certain records must
  be retained for three years after the end of the grant.
Account Identification:
  91-0204-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $26,278,000; FY 08 est $25,819,000; and FY 09 est
  $25,819,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The average award in fiscal year 2007 was $1,844,000. Range of new awards:
  $95,600 - $2,700,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Fourteen new awards were made in fiscal year 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 74,
  75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, 97, 98, and 99.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OII Parental Options and Information 400 Maryland
  Ave., S.W., Washington DC 20202-6140. Contact: Iris Lane, E-mail:
  iris.lane@ed.gov Telephone (202) 260-1999.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/choice/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.282, Charter Schools.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grant funds support: planning and implementation costs associated with new
  programs; tuition transfer payments to public schools that students choose to
  attend; and efforts to strengthen the capacity and quality of schools to meet the
  demand for choice and provide equitable access to such programs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The selection criteria contained in EDGAR, 34 CFR 75.209 and 75.210 are used
  to evaluate applications.
84.362 NATIVE HAWAIIAN EDUCATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended, Title VII, Part B.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop innovative educational programs to assist Native Hawaiians and to
  supplement and expand programs and authorities in the area of education.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Program funds may be used to carry a variety of authorized activities including,
  but not limited to: early education and care programs, family-based education
  centers, beginning reading and literacy programs, activities to address the needs
  of gifted and talented Native Hawaiian students, professional development for
  educators, and activities to enable Native Hawaiian students to enter and
  complete postsecondary education programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants include: Native Hawaiian educational organizations and
  community-based organizations; public and private nonprofit organizations,
  agencies, and institutions with experience in developing or operating Native
  Hawaiian programs or programs of instruction in the Native Hawaiian language;
  or consortia of the organizations, agencies, and institutions described above.
                                                                                 1177
