Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Native Hawaiian children and adults.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with a notice             
  published in the Federal Register. By the due date, eligible applicants must        
  submit to the Department of Education a complete application that addresses the     
  purposes of the program, the selection criteria, and any priorities included in the 
  application notice, and includes all required assurances and signatures.            
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The Department of Education awards these grants on a competitive basis.             
  Applications are reviewed and ranked by a panel of outside reviewers. The           
  program office notifies successful applicants of awards and negotiates and          
  awards grants. Contact the program office for more information.                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office     
  for application deadlines and information.                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 to 120 days              
  following the application deadline.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals are subject to the availability of appropriations.                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made for a period of up to five years, continuation awards are based     
  on the availability of appropriations.                                              
Reports:                                                                              
  Each eligible entity receiving a grant under this program annually shall submit to  
  the Department a report of its operations and activities. Each such annual report   
  shall include: (1) executive summary; (2) project status; (3) budget information;   
  and (4) supplemental information.                                                   
Audits:                                                                               
  The financial records of each eligible entity receiving a grant under this subpart  
  shall be maintained in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles     
  and shall be subject to an annual audit by an independent public accountant.        
Records:                                                                              
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education           
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), certain records must         
  be retained for three years after the end of the grant.                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-1000-0-1-501.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $33,907,000; FY 08 est $33,315,000; and FY 09 est $0.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Average New Award: $421,000.                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Approximately 23 new awards and 32 continuation awards were made in FY              
  2008.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 74,          
  75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, 97, 98, and 99.                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Education, OESE Academic Improvement and Teacher Quality              
  Programs, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Rm. 3W215, FB-6, Washington, DC                  
  20202-6140. Contact: Joanne Osborne, E-mail: joanee.osborne@ed.gov.                 
  Telephone: (202) 260-1265.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/nathawaiian/index.html .                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Early education programs; family-based educaton centers; beginning reading          
  and literacy programs; activities to address the education and cultural needs of    
  Native Hawaiian studens; special education programs; professional development       
  for Native Hawaiian educators; and activities to enable Native Hawaiian             
  students to enter and complete postsecondary education programs.                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The selection criteria contained in EDGAR, 34 CFR 75.209 and 75.210 are used

                                                                                      
  to evaluate applications. Contact the program office for additional information.    
                                                                                      
84.363 SCHOOL LEADERSHIP                                                              
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
1178                                                                            11-08

  OFFICE OF INNOVATION AND IMPROVEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act; Title II, Part B, Subpart 5, Section
  2151(b).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide support to eligible entities in the development of innovative
  programs that recruit, train and mentor principals and assistant principals.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grantees under this program may use funds for the following purposes: (1)
  providing financial incentives to aspiring new principals; (2) providing
  stipends to principals who mentor new principals; (3) carrying out professional
  development programs in instructional leadership and management; and (4)
  providing incentives that are appropriate for teachers or individuals from other
  fields who want to become principals and that are effective in retaining new
  principals.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible entities include: (1) high-need local educational agencies; (2) consortia
  of high-need local educational agencies; and (3) partnerships of high-need local
  educational agencies, nonprofit organizations, and institutions of higher
  education.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Local education agencies, school administrators, teachers, students and their
  parents are beneficiaries.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is covered from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with the regulations,
  instructions, forms and deadlines published in the Federal Register. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. The standard application forms as
  furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must
  be used for this program.
Award Procedure:
  The Department of Education notifies successful applicants of awards.
  Negotiation and awarding of grants will be completed by the Department of
  Education's, School Improvement Programs staff.
Deadlines:
  The closing date for the School Leadership Program is published in the Federal
  Register. Contact the program office for additional information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range is anticipated to be 90 to 120 days from the closing date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are subject to the availability of appropriations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are awarded for a 12-month period. Renewals are subject to the
  availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  Annual progress and financial reports are required in accordance with the
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations. Final performance
  reports must be submitted within 90 days following the end of the grant award
  period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administrative
  Regulations in the Appendix to 34 CFR 80, State and local governments that
  receive financial assistance of $100,000 or more within the State's fiscal year
  shall have an audit made for that year. State and local governments that receive
  between $25,000 and $100,000 a year shall have an audit made in accordance
  with the Appendix to Part 80, or in accordance with Federal laws and regulations
  governing the programs in which they participate.
Records:
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations, certain records must be
  retained for three years after the end of the grant.
Account Identification:
  91-0204-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $14,731,000; FY 08 $14,474,000; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $250,000 to $750,000; the
