  average award is expected to be $548,000.                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 2008, approximately 26 new awards are expected to be made.                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 74,         
  75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, 97, 98, and 99.                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Department of Education, OII Teacher Quality Programs 400 Maryland Ave.,           
  S.W., Washington, DC 20202-6140 Contact: Beatriz Ceja E-mail:                      
  beatriz.ceja@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 205-5009.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/leadership/index.html.                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  The Hawaii Department of Education in partnership with the University of           
  Hawaii, received a grant to review and revise screening criteria, core curricula,  
  performance assessments, develop an early leadership training program for          
  teacher leaders, and redesign a training program for entry-level school            
  administrators that emphasis pratical, technical knowledge and skills.             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The selection criteria contained in EDGAR, 34 CFR 75.209 and 75.210 are used       
  to evaluate applications. Contact the program office for additional information.   
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
84.364 LITERACY THROUGH SCHOOL LIBRARIES                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, Title I, Part B, Subpart 4.        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide students with increased access to up-to- date school library materials, 
  a well-equipped technologically advanced school library media center, and well-    
  trained, professionally certified school library media specialists to improve      
  literacy skills and achievement of students.                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  A recipient local educational agency (LEA) receiving a grant may use program       
  funds to: acquire school library media resources; acquire and use technology that  
  can help to develop the information retrieval and critical thinking skills of      
  students; facilitate Internet links and other resource-sharing networks; provide   
  professional development and collaborative activities for school library media     
  specialists; and provide students with access to school libraries during non-      
  school hours. This program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and          
  must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR 75.563.  
  For assistance call the Office of Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on   
  (202) 708-7770.                                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Local educational agencies (LEAs) with a child poverty rate of at least 20         
  percent are eligible.                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  School library media center specialists, teachers, students, parents and the       
  community are beneficiaries.                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Information to document the need for and impact of school library improvement.     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applications must be prepared and submitted in accordance with the notice          
  published in the Federal Register. By the due date, eligible applicants must       
  submit to the Department of Education, Application Control Center, a complete      
  application that addresses the purposes of the program, the selection criteria, the
  absolute priority included in the application notice, and includes all required    
  assurances and signatures. Required assurances and certifications include:         
  Group Application Certification (if applicable); Assurances for Non-               
  Construction Programs (SF 422B); Certification regarding Lobbying,                 
  Debarment; Suspension and Other Responsibility Matter, and Drug-Free               
  Workplace Requirements (ED Form 80- 0013); Disclosure of Lobbying                  
  Activities (SF LLL) (if applicable); Response to Notice to All Applicants          
  (Section 427, GEPA). Applications should also include a Cover Page (SF424);        
  the required Budget Form (ED Form 524); an itemized budget and other budget        
  information; proof of eligibility; a project abstract; and a program narrative that
  includes responses to selection criteria. Applicants are encouraged to submit (1)  
  one original and (2) copies of their application. This program is eligible for     
  coverage under E.O. 12372,"Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."          
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point  
                                                                                     
                                                                                11-08
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed and ranked by a panel of outside readers. The
  Department of Education notifies successful applicants of awards and negotiates
  the final award documents.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally 60 to 120 days after the deadline for applications.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for a period of not more than 12 months.
Reports:
  Grantees must submit a final performance reports within 90 days after the end of
  the grant award period documenting how the funds were used and the how
  school library media centers were improved.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records must be maintained for three years after the fiscal year in which the
  expenditure was made by the grantee, or until the grantee is notified of the
  completion of the Federal fiscal audit. In all cases of audit questions, records
  must be maintained until resolution has occurred.
Account Identification:
  91-0900-2-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $19,485,000; FY 08 est $19,145,000; and FY 09 est
  $19,145,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Approximately 60 awards were made; the average award was $310,000; the
  range was $138,000 to $507,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  2008: Approximately 60 awards were made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 74,
  75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, 97, 98, and 99. For further guidance and other
  information, contact the program office.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, OESE Academic Improvement and Teacher Quality
  Programs, 400 Maryland, Ave. S.W., Washington, DC 20202-6100. Contact:
  Irene B. Harwarth, E-mail: irene.harwarth@ed.gov Telephone: (202) 401-3751.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/lsl/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Enhancing Libraries in Rural South Dakota, administered by the Mid Central
  Educational Cooperative, serves ten rural schools in South Dakota. All ten
  schools are adding high-quality contemporary titles to their library collections
  for grades K-12. Three of the most rural schools purchased research and
  content-oriented software, and six of the schools are using the funds to develop
  the literacy skills in children grades K-3. Seven of the schools are requesting to
  use up to one-third of the grant for expanding library hours to be open before
  and after school and on Saturdays. Consistent with the competitive priority, all
  grant activities have been tied to district school improvement plans. The
  Chicago Public School District's "Improving Literacy through School Libraries:
  The ABC's of Library Literacy Programming" demonstration project is seeking
  to improve student literacy in ten urban elementary schools. Serving 4,729
  students, the program targets 1,099 first and second graders. The program's
  objectives are as follows: expanding intellectual access to the library by adding
  up-to-date library media resources including technologically advanced,
  networked resources, as well as expanding physical access to the library by
  increasing the amount of time students in lower grades can spend in the library.
  The program also focuses on providing professional development designed to
  assist librarians in learning how to more effectively enhance student reading
  achievement, and furthering collaboration among the librarians, Lead Literacy
                                                                                 1179
