  Teachers, and classroom teachers through the use of a successful collaboration     
  model.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Selection criteria are contained in the program guidelines. Contact the program    
  office for more information.                                                       
                                                                                     
84.365 ENGLISH LANGUAGE ACQUISITION GRANTS                                           
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), as amended, Title III, Part A,      
  Sections 3101-3129.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To ensure that limited English proficient children (LEP) and youth, including      
  immigrant children and youth, attain English proficiency and meet the same         
  challenging State academic content and student academic achievement standards      
  as all children and youth are expected to meet; to provide assistance to Native    
  American, Native Hawaiian, Native American Pacific Islander, and Alaska            
  Native children with certain modifications relative to the unique status of native 
  American language under Federal Law.                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The Department makes awards to States using a formula based on their numbers       
  of limited English proficient (LEP) children and immigrant children. States        
  must use at least 95 percent of their allotments to award local educational        
  agencies sub-grants to assist limited English proficient students learn English    
  and meet challenging State academic content and student achievement standards      
  and to provide immigrant students enhanced instructional opportunities. States     
  may reserve up to 5 percent of their allotments for administrative costs and       
  technical assistance to sub-grantees. The Department awards funds to Outlying      
  Areas for such activities in developing instructional programs for LEP students    
  by hiring tutors, conducting professional development for paraprofessionals,       
  training teachers, hiring teachers for "new-comer" programs, and purchasing and    
  developing materials to be used in the classroom for the instruction of LEP        
  students. Grants for Native American projects are used to increase English         
  proficiency and student academic achievement for LEP students and provide          
  high-quality professional development training for teachers and support            
  personnel. Training must improve teacher instruction and assessment                
  capabilities, and enhance their ability to understand and use curricula,           
  assessment measures, and instructional strategies for LEP students. Training       
  must also be based upon scientifically based research and be of sufficient         
  intensity and duration to have a positive and lasting impact. Funds may also be    
  used for identifying, acquiring, and upgrading curricula, instructional materials, 
  educational software, and assessment procedures. This program is subject to        
  non-supplanting requirements and must use a restricted indirect cost rate which    
  is referenced under 34 CFR 76.564-76.569. For assistance call the Office of        
  Chief Financial Officer/Indirect Cost Group on 202-708-7770.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  States and outlying areas with approved State plans are eligible to receive funds. 
    For the project grant component, eligibility is limited to a tribally sanctioned 
  educational authority, or an elementary or secondary school that is operated or    
  funded by the Bureau of Indian Affairs or a nonprofit, Native Hawaiian or          
  Native American Pacific Islander language organization.                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Children with limited English proficiency benefit.                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  States apply for grants by submitting a plan to the Department that describes the  
  process they will use in making sub-grants, holding sub-grantees accountable for   
  making adequate yearly progress for LEP students, and establishing standards       
  and objectives for raising the level of English proficiency in alignment with      
  State academic content and student academic achievement standards. The             
  Department uses a peer review process in approving State plans. Outlying area      
  applicants must decide if they will apply under the Consolidated Application       
  Process for outlying areas through which they may combine various funds. An        
  application must be developed in which the proposal addresses the purpose of       
  the grant, priorities, goals and objectives, activities, evaluation, needs, and a  
  budget indicating how the funds will be used. Eligible entities applying for       
  funding under the Native American and Alaska Native Children in School             
  Program submit a competitive discretionary grant that describes: the programs      
  and activities that will be developed, implemented and administered; how the       
  funds will be used to meet all the annual measurable achievement objectives;       
  and other criteria included in the application notice and program statute.         
Award Procedure:                                                                     


1180                                                                           11-08

  The Department allocates funds to any State or outlying area with an approved
  plan. States must expend at least 95 percent of their Title III allotments to award
  subgrants to local educational agencies and other eligible entities to meet the
  educational needs of LEP and immigrant children and youth. The project grant
  applications for Native American institutions are approved for awards by the
  Director, Office of English Language Acquisition, Language Enhancement, and
  Academic Achievement based on evaluations and recommendations from
  outside experts and an administrative review of the applications.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be announced in the application notice published in the Federal
  Register. Contact the Program Office for more information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 120 days.
Appeals:
  In programs administered by the Department, Section 432 of the General
  Education Provisions Act provides local educational agencies with a right of
  appeal in disagreements between State and local educational agencies, including
  disagreements over funding decisions. Where a local educational agency alleges
  that the denial of funding is "a violation of State or Federal law, rules,
  regulations, or guidelines governing the applicable program," it may, within 30
  days, request a hearing from the State educational agency. Once the hearing is
  held and the State educational agency issues its written ruling, the local
  educational agency may appeal a negative ruling to the Secretary.
Renewals:
  Not applicable for Formula Grants. For the Project Grant component, renewals
  are based on an annual review of the performance data and the availability of
  funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  State grants will be issued on a formula basis based on the count of LEP students
  and the count of immigrant children. Eighty percent of the funds are allocated
  based on the State's portion of the LEP count as compared to the total LEP count
  for all States, and twenty percent are allocated based on the state's portion of the
  immigrant children count as compared to the count for all States. Outlying area
  grants are issued on a formula basis based on the number of LEP students in the
  particular outlying area as compared to the LEP count for all of the outlying
  areas. The amount of Native American institutions discretionary grants based is
  based on budget request.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Length and Time Phasing of Assistance Funds under the State Formula Grant
  and the Outlying Area Grant programs are 1-year grants; the discretionary grants
  under the Native American program are for up to 5 years, subject to the
  availability of appropriations.
Reports:
  Grantees are subject to the reporting requirements contained in Parts 76 and 80
  of the Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR).
  Specific for formula grants: States prepare and submit reports every second year
  on the programs and activities carried out by the SEA and the effectiveness of
  such programs and activities in improving the education of children who are
  limited English proficient. Local educational agencies that receive sub-grants
  from SEAs must provide States with an evaluation every second year. The
  evaluation must include: A description of the programs and activities conducted;
  a description of the progress made by children in learning English and meeting
  challenging State academic content and achievement standards; the number and
  percentage of children in the programs attaining English proficiency by the end
  of each year; and a description of the progress made by children in meeting State
  academic content and student achievement standards for each of the 2 years after
  such children are no longer receiving services.
Audits:
  All grantees are subject to the provision of the Single Audit Act.
Records:
  All grantees must maintain and complete records as provided in EDGAR.
Account Identification:
  91-1300-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $617,177,000; FY 08 est $649,869,000; and FY 09 est
  $673,900,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For formula grants the range was $500,000 to $169,057,667. FY 07 average
  $11,868,785.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Grants are made to all state education agencies annually.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  EDGAR; 34 CFR 76. For more information contact the Program Office.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of English Language Acquisition, 400 Maryland Avenue S.W.,
  Washington, DC 20202-6510. Contact: Harpreet Sandhu E-mail:
  harpreet.sandhu@ed.gov. Telephone (202)-245-7149.
Web Site Address:
