  http://www.ed.gov/programs/sfgp/nrgcomp.html.                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Schools use the funds to implement language instruction educational programs        
  designed to help LEP students achieve these standards. Approaches and               
  methodologies used must be based on scientifically based research. LEAs may         
  develop and implement new language instruction programs and expand or               
  enhance existing programs. LEAs also may implement schoolwide programs              
  within individual schools or implement systemwide programs to restructure,          
  reform, or upgrade all programs, activities, or operations related to the education 
  of their LEP students.                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
84.366 MATHEMATICS AND SCIENCE PARTNERSHIPS                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, Title II, Part B.                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To improve the academic achievement of students in mathematics and science          
  by encouraging states, IHEs, LEAs, and elementary and secondary schools to          
  participate in programs that: improve and upgrade the status and stature of         
  mathematics and science teaching by encouraging IHEs to improve mathematics         
  and science teacher education; focus on the education of mathematics and            
  science teachers as a career-long process; bring mathematics and science            
  teachers together with scientists, mathematicians, and engineers to improve their   
  teaching skills; and develop more rigorous mathematics and science curricula        
  that are aligned with state and local academic achievement standards expected       
  for postsecondary study in engineering, mathematics, and science.                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  This program supports State and local efforts to improve students' academic         
  achievement in mathematics and science by promoting strong teaching skills for      
  elementary and secondary school teachers, including by integrating teaching         
  methods based on scientifically based research and technology into the              
  curriculum. Grantees may also use program funds to develop more rigorous            
  mathematics and science curricula that are aligned with challenging State and       
  local content standards; establish distance learning programs for mathematics       
  and science teachers; and recruit individuals with mathematics, science, and        
  engineering majors into teaching profession through the use of signing and          
  performance incentives, stipends, and scholarships. Professional development        
  can include summer workshops, or institutes and programs that bring                 
  mathematics and science teachers into contact with working scientists,              
  mathematicians, and engineers in order to expand teachers' subject-matter           
  knowledge.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The Department awards 3-year grants directly to partnerships on a competitive       
  basis when the appropriation for the program is less than $100 million. If the      
  appropriation reaches or exceeds $100 million, as has been the case since fiscal    
  year 2003, the Department provides grants to States by formula based on the         
                                                                                      
  number of children aged 5 to 17 who are from families with incomes below the

                                                                                      
  poverty line; States then award the funds competitively to partnerships. Eligible

                                                                                      
  partnerships must include the State educational agency (if the Department is

                                                                                      
  awarding the grants directly to partnerships); an engineering, mathematics, or

                                                                                      
  science department of an institution of higher education (IHE); and a high-need

                                                                                      
  local educational agency (LEA). In addition, partnerships may include another

                                                                                      
  engineering, mathematics, science, or teacher training department of an IHE;

                                                                                      
  additional LEAs, public charter schools, public or private elementary or

                                                                                      
  secondary schools; a business; or a nonprofit or for-profit organization of

                                                                                      
  demonstrated effectiveness in improving the quality of mathematics and science

                                                                                      
  teachers.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  University staff, school administrators, teachers, students, parents and the

  community.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

  Eligible partnerships submit an application directly to the Department when the     
                                                                                      
  program's appropriation is less than $100 million. Partnerships submit an

                                                                                      
  application to the State if the appropriation is $100 million or greater.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  The Department awards grants to States by formula. States then award grants to

                                                                                      
  eligible partnerships.

                                                                                      


                                                                                 11-08
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for a period of not more than three years. Renewals are
  subject to the availability of funds.
Reports:
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations
  (EDGAR) of State-administrered programs (34 CFR Part 76).
Audits:
  The State will correct deficiencies in program operations that are identified
  through audits, monitoring, or evaluation. In accordance with the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) in the Appendix to
  34 CFR 80, State and local governments that receive financial assistnce of
  $300,000 or more within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit made for that
  year. State and local governments that receive between $25,000 and $300,000
  whin the State's fiscal year shall have an audit made in accordance wht the
  Appendix to Part 80, or in accordance with Federal laws and regulations
  governing the programs in which they participate.
Records:
  Records must be maintained for three years. In all cases of audit questions,
  records must be maintained until resolution has occurred.
Account Identification:
  91-1000-0-1-501.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $182,160,000; FY 08 est $178,978,000; and FY 09 est
  $178,978,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The range of awards was $890,000 - $21,906,000; the average award was
  $3,180,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Grants supported programs in all States in FY 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 74,
  75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, 97, 98, and 99. For further guidance and other
  information, contact the Program Office.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Academic Improvement and Teacher Quality Programs, Office of Elementary
  and Secondary Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC
  20202-6254. Contact: Pat O'Connell Johnson, E-mail:
  patricia.johnson@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 260-7813.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/mathsci/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Vermont Mathematics Partnership is a partnership of the University of
  Vermont, numerous school districts, and the Vermont Mathematics Initiative--a
  state organization that supports improvments in mathematics learning. MSP
  funds support an 80-hour (6 graduate credit) course of content-rich professional
  development for elementary and middle school teachers taught by math
  professors over the summer. This professional development is followed up with
  mentoring and intensive support by highly trained practitioners who have
  received a masters degree in mathematics. These mentors assist the teachers
  transfer their knowledge into their classroom practice. In 2006-07 67 teachers
  were enrolled.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Selection criteria are contained in the program guidelines. Contact the Program
  Office for more information.
84.367 IMPROVING TEACHER QUALITY STATE GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, Title II, Part A.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants to State Educational Agencies (SEAs) on a formula basis to
  increase student academic achievement through strategies such as improving
  teacher and principal quality and increasing the number of highly qualified
  teachers in the classroom and highly qualified principals and assistant principals
                                                                                  1181
