  in schools and hold local educational agencies and schools accountable for          
  improvements in student academic achievement.                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  At least 95 percent of awards to SEAs must be used to make subgrants to LEAs        
  for the following purposes: to assist schools in effectively recruiting and         
  retaining highly qualified teachers; to afford to LEAs the means of recruiting,     
  hiring, and retaining teachers; to make available professional development          
  activities that address subject matter knowledge; and other activities as set forth 
  in Section 2123. This program is subject to non-supplanting requirements and        
  must use a restricted indirect cost rate which is referenced under 34 CFR           
  76.563-76.569. for assistance call the Office of the Chief Financial                
  Officer/Indirect Cost Group on (202) 708-7770.                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  States with approved ESEA Consolidated State Plans.                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Elementary and secondary schools, principals, students, parents, pupil services     
  personnel and teachers will benefit.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  An SEA is eligible for funding if it submits an application that includes           
  statewide activities based on scientifically based research and an explanation of   
  why the activities will improve student academic achievement. The plan must:        
  (1) assure compliance by LEA; (2) assure that the activities are aligned with       
  challenging State academic content, student academic achievement standards,         
  State assessments and State and local curricula; and (3) describe the use of the    
  funds to improve the quality of the State's teachers and principals. The State      
  Education Agency for Higher Education makes grants, on a competitive basis, to      
  eligible partnerships to carry out as activities listed above.                      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The Department allocates funds to any State whose application the Secretary has     
  "deemed approved" under conditions set forth in Section 2112 (c).                   
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  None.                                                                               
Appeals:

  The procedure of an appeal is described in ESEA section: 2112 (c), (d), and (e).

  Contact the program office for more information.

                                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Improving Teacher Quality State Grants funds are distributed by formula. Each       
  State receives the amount of funds that it received from the antecedent             
  Eisenhower Professional Development State Grants and Class Size Reduction           
  programs in fiscal year 2001. Remaining funds are then allocated to States by       
  formula based 35 percent on States' relative share of the population aged 5 to 17   
  and 65 percent on States' relative share of poor children aged 5 to 17, with each   
  State receiving at least one-half of 1 percent of these remaining funds.            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Generally, awards to States are made from July 1 to September 30 of the             
  following year. In addition, funds remain available to States for an additional     
  fiscal year for obligation and expenditure.                                         
Reports:                                                                              
  As required by the Education Department General Administrative Regulations          
  (EDGAR) of State-administered programs (34 CFR part 76). Generally, SEAs            
  are subject to the reporting requirements contained in Title IX of the ESEA,        
  Consolidated State Performance Report Section 9303 (b).                             
Audits:                                                                               
  The State will correct deficiencies in program operations that are identified       
  through audits, monitoring, or evaluation. In accordance with the Education         
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR) in the Appendix to            
  34 CFR 80, State and local governments that receive financial assistance of         
  $300,000 or more within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit made for that   
  year. State and local governments that receive between $25,000 and $300,000         
  within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit made in accordance with the      
  Appendix to Part 80, or in accordance with Federal laws and regulations             
  governing the programs in which they participate.                                   
Records:                                                                              
  The State will maintain such records, provide such information to the Secretary,    
  and afford such access to the records as the Secretary may find necessary to        
  carry out the Secretary's duties. In accordance with the General Education          
  Provisions Act, and the Education Department General Administrative                 
  Regulations, States must maintain certain program records for 3 years.              
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-1000-0-1-501.                                                                    


1182                                                                            11-08

Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,887,439,000; FY 08 est $2,935,248,000; and FY 09 est
  $2,835,248,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The average award for FY 08 was $55,603,000. The range was $13,987 to
  $133,937,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Awards are made to the State educational agency in every State, and the
  Department is currently conducting the second round of monitoring in every
  State.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Contact the Program Office for additional information.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Academic Improvement and
  Teacher Quality Programs, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W.,
  Washington, DC 20202, Elizabeth Witt, E-mail: elizabeth.witt@ed.gov.
  Telephone: (202) 260-5585.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/teacherqual/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Philadelphia public schools received about $21 million in Title II, Part A
  funds in FY 2006. They spent about $12.5 million on salaries for 126 teachers
  paid for the purpose of class size reduction and about $7 million on various
  professional development projects to improve the skills of teachers and
  principals in the district; a portion of these professional development funds went
  to providing equitable services to teachers in private schools located in the LEA.
   The district spent the remaining program funds for administrative purposes and
  on indirect costs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  After consultation with the governor, an SEA submits a consolidated application
  and is not required to submit separate applications. The Secretary shall require
  only descriptions, information, assurances (including assurances of compliance
  with applicable provisions regarding participation by private school children and
  teachers), and other materials that are absolutely necessary for the consideration
  of a consolidated State application. Contact the Program Office for additional
  information.
84.369 GRANTS FOR STATE ASSESSMENTS AND
RELATED ACTIVITIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended, Title VI, Part A,
  Subpart I.
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To support the development of the additional State assessments and
  standards required by Section 1111(b) of the Elementary and Secondary
  Education Act, as amended (ESEA); (2) if a State has developed the assessments
  and standards required by Section 1111(b), then to support the administration of
  those assessments or to carry out other activities related to ensuring that the
  State's schools and local education agencies are held accountable for results.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  State educational agencies must use these funds to carry out the responsibilities
  described in Section 6111 of the ESEA. Funds may be used to support the
  development of the additional State assessments and standards required by
  Section 1111(b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended
  (ESEA); or if a State has developed the assessments and standards required by
  Section 1111(b), then to support the administration of those assessments or to
  carry out other activities related to ensuring that the State's schools and local
  education agencies are held accountable for results.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State educational agencies with either: (1) An approved consolidated application
  that includes application for funds under Section 6111 or (2) an approved Title I
  Part A application that includes application for funds under Section 6111.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States and local educational agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  States applying for Title I, Part A, funds under the consolidated application
