  procedure must initiate Section 6111 on their list of "ESEA Programs included     
  in the consolidated application" and must respond adequately to the single        
  question asking them to identify how they will use Section 6111 funds. States     
  applying for Title I, Part A, funds under an individual program application       
  procedure must initiate Section 6111 on their cover sheet for this application and
  must respond adequately to the single question asking them to identify how they   
  will use Section 6111 funds.                                                      
Award Procedure:

  The Department will allocate funds to any State whose State application           
  submission demonstrates that funds will be used for covered activities and that

  costs associated with those activities are reasonable.                            
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact the program office for deadlines.                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 30-90 days.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                            
  If the Department disapproves a State's application for funds authorized by       
  Section 6111, the State has the right to a hearing in accordance with Section     
  76.202 of the Education Department General Administrative Regulations             
  (EDGAR).                                                                          
Renewals:                                                                           
  States with approved applications will automatically receive grant awards for     
  any year for which there is an appropriation for the program.                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Under the funding formula, one-half of 1 percent of the appropriation is reserved 
  for the DOI Bureau of Indian Education and one-half of 1 percent goes to the      
  Outlying Areas. From the remaining funds, each State receiveds $3 million and     
  then a share of any remaining funds based on its proportion of students ages 5    
  through 17.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Awards of funds are available for obligation for a maximum of 27 months. They     
  become available to the Department on July 1, and are awarded to States on or     
  about that date. They remain available for obligation under the initial period of 
  availability for 15 months (until September 30, of the following fiscal year).    
  Under section 421(b) of the General Education Provisions Act, any funds that      
  remain unobligated may be carried over for obligation for an additional 12        
  months. Funds for succeeding fiscal years, if appropriated, will follow a similar 
  timeline.                                                                         
Reports:                                                                            
  Grantees are subject to the reporting requirements contained in Parts 76 and 80   
  of the Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR).           
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administrative                
  Regulations (EDGAR) in 34 CFR 80, State and local governments that receive        
  financial assistance of $100,000 or more within the State's fiscal year shall have
  an audit made for that year. State and local governments that receive between     
  $25,000 and $100,000 within the State's fiscal year shall have an audit made in   
  accordance with the Appendix to EDGAR, Part 80.                                   
Records:                                                                            
  All grantees must maintain and complete records in accordance with the General    
  Education Provisions Act and the Education Department General Administrative      
  Regulations (EDGAR).                                                              
Account Identification:                                                             
  91-1000-0-1-501.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $407,563,000; FY 08 est $408,732,000; and FY 09 est                
  $408,732,000.                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  For FY 2008, the range of awards is expected to be $3,355,000 to $33,417; the     
  average award is expected to be $7,615,000.                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In 2007, 51 out of 52 State educational agencies had implemented                  
  reading/language arts and mathematics assessments that align with the State's     
  academic content standards for all students in grades three through eight and in  
  high school, and 5 had implemented science assessments that align with the        
  State's academic content standards for all students in each grade span (grades 3  
  through 5,6 through 8, and high school).                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 76,        
  77, 79, 80, 81, 82, 85, 86, 97, 98, and 99. 34 CFR Parts 200 and 300.             
  Nonregulatory guidance is available at                                            
  http://www.ed.gov/admins/lead/account/saa.html.                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Student Achievement and             
  School Accountability Programs, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC         
  20202-6132. Contact: Zollie Stevenson, E-mail: zollie.stevenson@ed.gov.           
  Telephone: (202)260-1824.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   


                                                                               11-08
  84.010, Title I Grants to Local Educational Agencies.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects include development or subsequent implementation of standards-based
  state academic assessments in reading or language arts, mathematics, and
  science as required by the authorizing statute.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable; awards through a formula to the States.
84.370 DC SCHOOL CHOICE INCENTIVE PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF INNOVATION AND IMPROVEMENT, DEPARTMENT OF
  EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  DC School Choice Incentive Act of 2003, (Title III of Division C of the
  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2004).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide low-income parents residing in the District of Columbia (District)
  with expanded options for the education of their children. This program is part
  of a broader school improvement effort in the District that is funded on the belief
  that all education sectors (public schools, public charter schools, and nonpublic
  schools) can offer quality educaiton experiences for the District's students,
  economically disadvantaged have the least access to such experiences.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  One or more grants are awarded on a competitive basis to eligible applicants to
  establish a scholarship program to provide eligible students with expanded
  school choice options. Students who are residents of the District and who come
  from households whose income does not exceed 185 percent of the poverty line
  are eligible to apply for scholarships from a grantee under this program. These
  scholarships may be used to pay the tuition and fees and transportation
  expenses, if any, to enable students to attend the participating District non-
  public elementary or secondary school of their choice.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An educational entity of the District of Columbia Government; a nonprofit
  organization; or a consortium of nonprofit organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  To receive an award under this program, an applicant must ensure that a
  majority of the members of its voting board or governing organization are
  residents of the District of Columbia. The Secretary gives priority to applications
  from eligible entities that will most effectively provide students and families
  with the widest range of educational options; to applications from eligible
  entities that will most effectively target resources to students and families who
  lack the financial resources to take advantage of available educational options;
  and to applications from eligible entities that will most effectively give priority
  to eligible students who, in the school year preceding the school year in which
  the student would use the scholarship, attend an elementary or secondary school
  identified for improvement, corrective action, or restructuring under section
  1116 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended
  (ESEA) (20 U.S.C. 6316).
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is subject to Executive Order 12372 and the regulations in 34 CFR
  part 79. Information about Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs
  under Executive Order 12372 is in the application package for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Applicant must submit the following by the designated deadline: (1)The
  applicant must provide a written narrative, which addresses the selection criteria
  (and the required application content) that reviewers use in evaluating their
  applications. This Section must be limited to no more than 50 double-spaced
  pages. (2)Required forms to be submitted with the application include SF424;
  Sections A, B, and C of ED Form 524; Assurance - Non Construction Programs;
   Certifications Regarding Lobbying, Debarment, Suspension and Other
  Responsibility Matters; Drug-Free Workplace Requirements; Disclosure of
  Lobbying Activity; Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, Ineligibility
  and Voluntary Exclusion - Lower Tier Covered Transactions. (3)Applicants for
  grants under this program are required to submit applications electronically
  using the Electronic Grant Application System (e-Application) available through
  the Department's e-GRANTS system. Specific instructions for submitting
  applications electronically are included in the application notice.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by the Department for eligibility and completeness.
  Applications are reviewed and scored by a panel of experts. A funding slate is
  prepared and the highest ranked applications are recommended for funding.
  Successful and unsuccessful applicants are notified of outcome. Grant awards
  are prepared and mailed to successful grantees.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office
                                                                                  1183
