  for more information.                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 60 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                              
  Applicants may apply for a project period of up to 60 months. Continuation           
  awards are subject to the availability of appropriations.                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Applicants may apply for a project period of up to 60 months. Renewals are           
  subject to the availability of appropriations.                                       
Reports:                                                                               
  Annual performance are required for each budget period. Specific due dates are       
  determined by the Department and forwarded to applicants accordingly. Final          
  performance reports are due 90 days after expiration or termination of the award.    
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                      
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000     
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit             
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a        
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,     
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                               
Records:                                                                               
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and the Education            
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), certain financial             
  records must be maintained for a period of three years.                              
Account Identification:                                                                
  20-1817-0-1-501 .                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Project Grants) FY 07 $13,860,000; FY 08 est $14,800,000; and FY 09 est

                                                                                       
  $18,000,000.

                                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Average Continuation award: $12,594,200.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  One continuation awrd was made in FY 2008.

                                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                       
  The Closing Date Notice will be published in the Federal Register. Contact the

                                                                                       
  Program Office for more information.

                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                       
  None.

Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Department of Education, Office of Innovation and Improvement, 400 Maryland          
  Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202-5961. Contact: Michelle Armstrong, E-             
  mail: michelle.armstrong@ed.gov; Telephone: (202) 205-1729.                          
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/dcchoice/index.html .                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  The Washington Scholarship Fund, the grantee under the program, has                  
  established the Opportunity Scholarship Programs (OSP) to provide eligible           
  students with expanded school choice options. These scholarships of up to            
  $7,500 per student per school yer enable students from low-income families to        
  attend a participating nonpublic District elementary or secondary school of their    
  choice.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The selection criteria are contained in the closing date notice.                     
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
84.371 STRIVING READERS                                                                
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF ELEMENTARY AND SECONDARY EDUCATION,                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION.                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, as amended; Title I, Part E,         
  Section 1502.                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To raise student achievement by improving the reading skills of middle and high      
  school students who are reading below grade level. Striving Readers supports         
  the implementation and evaluation of research-based reading interventions for        
  struggling middle and high school readers in Title I-eligible schools at risk of not 
  meeting or not meeting annual yearly progress requirements under the ESEA            
  and/or that have significant percentages or numbers of students reading below        
  grade level.                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Successful applicants must use these funds to carry out the activities described     


1184                                                                             11-08

  in their approved applications. Striving Reader programs include supplemental
  literacy intervention strategies targeted to students who are reading significantly
  below grade level; cross-disciplinary strategies for improving student literacy
  that may include professional development for subject matter teachers and use of
  research-based reading strategies in classrooms across subject areas; and a
  strong experimental evaluation component. Grant recipients, must, for example,
  use funds for reasonable costs needed to implement a supplemental literacy
  intervention, which may include additional staff time for extra periods of
  instruction, age-appropriate reading materials for struggling adolescent readers,
  assessment instruments, professional development opportunities for staff
  focused on literacy, and evaluation. Funds must be used in Title I-eligible public
  schools serving grades 6-12 with significant numbers of students reading below
  grade level.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The following are eligible to apply for a Striving Readers grant: (1) One or more
  local educational agencies (LEAs) that receive Title I funds and have one or
  more high schools or middle schools with significant numbers of students
  reading below grade level and are at risk of not meeting or are not meeting Title
  I annual yearly progress requirements; (2) Intermediate service agencies on
  behalf of one or more local educational agencies that receive Title I funds and
  have one or more high schools or middle schools with significant numbers of
  students reading below grade level and are at risk of not meeting or are not
  meeting Title I annual yearly progress requirements; or (3) Partnerships that
  may include public or private institutions of higher education, eligible nonprofit
  or for-profit organizations (or consortia of such institutions or organizations),
  and LEAs that have one or more high schools or middle schools with significant
  numbers of students reading below grade level and are at risk of not meeting or
  are not meeting Title I adequate yearly progress requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Adolescent students (in grades 6-12) who are reading below grade level. LEAs
  that have one or more high schools or middle schools with significant numbers
  of students reading below grade level or that are at risk of not meeting or are not
  meeting Title I adequate yearly progress requirements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Eligible applicants that wish to receive a Striving Readers grant must submit a
  pre-application of no more than ten pages that addresses four criteria: the
  supplemental literacy intervention targeted to students who are reading
  significantly below grade level; a description of the cross disciplinary plan for
  improving student literacy, and the experimental evaluation design (including
  identification and qualifications of the researchers who will carry out the
  evaluation). The pre-application must also include an estimated budget. Only
  those submissions rated highly in this competitive peer review process and
  deemed to have the potential to become successful projects are invited to submit
  full Striving Readers applications. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Those applicants that are invited to submit a full application must prepare and
  submit one in accordance with the notice that will be published in the Federal
  Register. By the due date, eligible applicants must submit to the U.S.
  Department of Education, Application Control Center, a complete application
  that addresses the purposes of the program, the selection criteria, the competitive
  priority included in the application notice, and includes all required assurances
  and signatures. Required assurances and certifications include: Assurances for
  Non-Construction Programs (SF 422B); Certification regarding Lobbying,
  Debarment; Suspension and Other Responsibility Matter, and Drug-Free
  Workplace Requirements (ED Form 80-0013); Disclosure of Lobbying
  Activities (SF LLL) (if applicable); Response to Notice to All Applicants
  (Section 427, GEPA). Applications should also include a Cover Page (SF424);
  the required Budget Form (ED Form 524); an itemized budget and other budget
  information; proof of eligibility; a project abstract; and a program narrative that
  includes responses to selection criteria. Applicants are encouraged to submit (1)
  one original and (2) copies of their application. This program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372,"Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Award Procedure:
  The Department of Education notifies successful applicants of awards. Contact
  the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education at StrivingReaders@ed.gov
  for more information.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be published in the Federal Register. Contact the program office
  for application deadlines and information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 to 120 days
  following the full application deadline.
Appeals:
