  notice, and includes all required assurances and signatures. Required assurances    
  and certifications include: Assurances for Non- Construction programs (SF           
  422B); Certification regarding Lobbying, Disbarment; Suspension and other           
  Responsibility Matter, and Drug-Free Workplace Requirements (ED Form 80-            
  00013); Disclosure of Lobbying Activities (SF LLL) (if applicable); Response to     
  Notice to All Applicants (Section 427, GEPA). Applications should also include      
  a Cover Page (SF 424); the required Budget Form (ED Form 524); an itemized          
  budget and other budget information; a project abstract; and a program narrative    
  that includes responses to selection criteria. Applicants are encouraged to         
  submit (1) original and (2) copies of the application.                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  If an applicant is successful, the Department of Education notifies the applicant's 
  U.S. Representative and U.S. Senators and will send the successful applicant a      
  Grant Award Notification (GAN). The Department of Education may also notify         
  the successful applicant informally.                                                
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the Office of Elementary and Secondary Education at TIF@ed.gov for          
  application deadlines and information.                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  The range of approval/disapproval time is approximately 60 to 120 days              
  following the application deadline.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Applicants may apply for a project period of up to five years. Renewals are

  subject to the availability of funds and a grantee's satisfactory progress.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Each applicant must demonstrate a significant investment in, and ensure the         
  sustainability of, its project by committing to pay for an increasing share of the  
  project, for each year of the grant, with State, local, or other non- Federal funds.
  The applicant will annually increase its share of the project. In the final year of 
  the grant, the grantee must ensure that at least 75 percent of the compensation     
  costs are not paid by the grant.                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Applicants may apply for a project period of up to five years. Renewals are         
  subject to the availability of funds and a grantee's satisfactory progress.         
Reports:                                                                              
  Annual performance reports must be submitted during each yearly budget period       
  in order to receive continuation awards. Final performance reports and the final    
  evaluation report must be submitted after the end of the grant period.              
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the Education Department General Administrative                  
  Regulations (EDGAR) in 34 CFR 80 and OMB Circular A-133, Nonfederal                 
  entities that expend $300,000 ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December      
  31, 2003) or more in a year in Federal awards shall have a single or program-       
  specific audit conducted for that year in accordance with the provisions of this    
  part.                                                                               
Records:                                                                              
  In accordance with the General Education Provisions Act and The Education           
  Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), certain records must         
  be retained for three years.                                                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-0204-0-1-501.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $200,000; FY 08 est $97,270,000; and FY 09 est $102,730,000.         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Estimated range of awards: $239,000 to $10,366,000. Average award is                
  $3,305,000.                                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The Department oversees 34 grants awarded in 2006, provides technical               
  assistance to grantees, and has begun an evaluation of the program.                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Education Department General Administrative Regulations (EDGAR), Parts 74,          
  75, 77, 79, 80, 81, 81, 82, 84, 85, 97, 98, and 99. Contact the program office for  
  additional information.                                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Elementary and Secondary Education, Department of Education, 400          
  Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Contact: April Lee, E-mail:              
  april.lee@ed.gov; Telephone: (202) 401-2266.                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/teacherincentive.                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Among the grants awarded in 2006 were the following: $34 million over 5 years       
  to the South Carolina Department of Education, which has been working with          
  the Teacher Advancement Program (TAP) to implement a performance-based              
  compensation system to address problems with recruitment and retion in 23           


                                                                                 11-08
  high-need schools in 6 districts. The project has the potential to affect more
  than 60,000 children and 5,000 teachers and principals. Strategies include
  higher and varied teacher bonuses, the introduction of principal and assistant
  principal bonuses, raising the value-added percentage in performance pay from
  50 percent to 60 percent, and using tests to give K-3 teachers an individual
  value-added score. $6.8 million to the Eagle County (CO) School District,
  which, in the 5 years before receiving the grant, had already invested over $4.5
  million (not including performance awards) to implement a performance-based
  compensation system for techers and principals. The TIF grant is allowing the
  district to expand the program and improve the quality of Master and Mentor
  teachers through increased salary augmentations and training. The project
  affects 13 high-need schools. $1.1 million over 5 years to the Edward W. Brooke
  Charter School, a charter school for students in kindergarten through grade 8 in
  Boston, Massachusetts. The school is using its grant to offer teachers and
  principals annual bonuses tied to student performance during the previous
  academic school year. The compensation plan also offers differentiated base
  salaries for teachers who have proven expertise in high-need subject areas, such
  as mathematics and science. In addition, the school also will use TIF funds as a
  rention tool by awarding incentives only to teachers who commit to returning to
  the school the following year.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The selection criteria will be included in the full application package and
  published in the Federal Register notice. Contact the program office for more
  information.
84.375 ACADEMIC COMPETITIVENESS GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL STUDENT AID, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part A, Subpart 1, Section 401A, as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide eligible first and second-year full-time undergraduates who have
  completed a rigorous course of study in high school with need-based grant
  assistance to help meet educational expenses.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The student must be a U.S. citizen who has been accepted for enrollment in, and
  is making satisfactory progress at an eligible institution of higher education.
  Eligible schools may be public or private non-profit institutions of higher
  education (such as colleges, universities, vocational technical schools, hospital
  schools of nursing), and for-profit institutions (proprietary). Eligible males who
  are at least 18 years or older and born after December 31, 1959, can receive aid
  only if they have registered with the Selective Service. Graduate students and
  students who have already earned a bachelor's degree are not eligible for
  assistance. Recipients must demonstrate need according to Part F of the Higher
  Education Act of 1965, as amended, and must be eligible for a Federal Pell
  Grant.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Undergraduate students enrolled as full-time regular students in an eligible
  program at an eligible institution of higher education and making satisfactory
  academic progress. Applicants must be U.S. citizens and have a high school
  diploma, a GED, or demonstrate the ability to benefit from the program of study
  offered.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  First- and second- year undergraduate students who are U.S citizens and are
  eligible to receive a Federal Pell Grant. Students must be full-time regular
  students in an eligible program at an eligible institution of higher education and
  making satisfactory academic progress. A first-year undergraduate must also be
  a first-time undergraduate, enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a 2- or 4-year
  degree-granting institution, and have completed, after January 1, 2006, a
  rigorous secondary school program. A second-year undergraduate at such an
  institution must have completed such a rigorous program after January 1, 2005,
  and have obtained a cumulative grade-point-average (GPA) of at least 3.0 in the
  first academic year as an undergraduate. In addition, students must sign a
  statement of educational purpose, not owe a refund on a Title IV grant, and not
  be in default on a Title IV loan. Eligible males that are at least 18 years old and
  born after December 31, 1950, can receive aid only if they have registered with
  the Selective Service.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is exempted from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Student completes a "Free Application for Federal Student Aid" and submits it
  to the agency specified on the form. Students may apply using a paper
  application, an electronic application, or via the Internet. The U. S. Department
                                                                                   1187
