  of Education calculates the student's eligibility for assistance and the agency to  
  which the student sent the application returns a notification to the student of his 
  or her eligibility for assistance. The student submits this notification to the     
  institution of his or her choice in order to have his or her award calculated. This 
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.                     
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Institutions act as disbursing agents for the Department of Education. The          
  institution that the student attends calculates and disburses the Academic

  Competitiveness Grants, using a payment schedule developed by the Department        
  of Education that determines the amount of the award based on the amount of

  available funding and the estimated number of recipients.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the program office for deadlines.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 2 to 4 weeks.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                              
  An institution, on the basis of supplemental documentation, may rule that an        
  applicant is self-supporting, even though under the standard criteria, the          
  applicant would normally be considered financially dependent on his or her          
  parents. An institution may adjust on a case-by-case basis a student's data         
  elements used to calculate his or her EFC and cost of attendance due to unusual     
  circumstances documented by the institution.                                        
Renewals:                                                                             
  Students who have applied in the previous award year may be eligible to             
  complete a paper or electronic renewal application that contains preprinted         
  student data and requires students only to update certain information.              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Students are limited to one Academic Competitiveness Grant during any award         
  year (July 1 through June 30). Funds for these grants are usually disbursed at      
  least twice during an award year. Students may only receive an Academic             
  Competitiveness Grant until they have received a bachelor's degree.                 
Reports:                                                                              
  Institutions will be required to furnish reports, periodically, on the disbursement 
  of funds, as well as furnish any other reports the Secretary requires. No reports   
  are required of students.                                                           
Audits:                                                                               
  Annual audits will be made.                                                         
Records:                                                                              
  All records pertaining to the eligibility of each Academic Competitiveness Grant    
  recipient and all fiscal management records must be maintained by the               
  institution for a period of 3 years or until an acceptable audit has been           
  completed, whichever is later. Selected students will have the information on       
  their applications verified.                                                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  91-0205-0-1-502.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $350,000,000; FY 08 est $440,000,000; and FY 09 est                  
  $643,000,000.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Grants are up to $750 for first-year students and up to $1,300 for second-year      
  students. In combination with other Federal student aid, awards may not exceed      
  a student's cost of education; in addition, award levels may be reduced if          
  available funding is insufficient to support estimated program costs. Average       
  award: est $787.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  This program was created by the Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2006;        
  it began operation on July 1, 2006. The Department of Education estimates that      
  awards will support 559,000 students.                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  This program was created by the Higher Education Reconciliation Act of 2006;        
  it began operation on July 1, 2006. Contact the program office for more             
  information.                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Federal Student Aid Information Center. Telephone: (800) 433-3243. Regional         
  Director, Federal Student Aid, the Director of Financial Aid at the institution the 
  student wishes to attend, high school guidance counselors, or directors of State    
  agencies.                                                                           
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education, 400 Maryland            
  Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Telephone: (800) 433-2343.                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ifap.ed.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  84.007, Federal Supplemental Educational Opportunity Grants; 84.032, Federal        
  Family Education Loans; 84.033, Federal Work-Study Program; 84.037, Perkins         
  Loan Cancellations; 84.038, Federal Perkins Loan Program_Federal Capital            
  Contributions; 84.042, TRIO_Student Support Services; 84.044, TRIO_Talent           
  Search; 84.047, TRIO_Upward Bound; 84.063, Federal Pell Grant Program;              


1188                                                                            11-08

  84.066, TRIO_Educational Opportunity Centers; 84.069, Leveraging
  Educational Assistance Partnership; 84.376, National Science and Mathematics
  Access to Retain Talent (SMART) Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
84.376 NATIONAL SCIENCE AND MATHEMATICS
ACCESS TO RETAIN TALENT (SMART) GRANTS
   (SMART Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FEDERAL STUDENT AID, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part A, Subpart 1, Section 401A, as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide eligible third- and fourth-year full-time undergraduates who major in
  certain designated technical fields or foreign languages with need-based grant
  assistance to help meet educational expenses.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The student must be a U.S. citizen who has been accepted for enrollment in, and
  is making satisfactory progress at an eligible institution of higher education.
  Eligible schools may be public or private nonprofit institutions of higher
  education (such as colleges, universities, vocational technical schools, hospital
  schools of nursing), and for-profit institutions (proprietary). Eligible males who
  are at least 18 years or older and born after December 31, 1959, can receive aid
  only if they have registered with the Selective Service. Graduate students and
  students who have already earned a bachelor's degree are not eligible for
  assistance. Recipients must demonstrate need according to Part F of the Higher
  Education Act of 1965, as amended, and must be eligible for a Federal Pell
  Grant.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Undergraduate students enrolled as full-time regular students in an eligible
  program at an eligible institution of higher education and making satisfactory
  academic progress. Applicants must be U.S. citizens and have a high school
  diploma, a GED, or demonstrate the ability to benefit from the program of study
  offered.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Third- and fourth-year undergraduate students who are U.S citizens and are
  eligible to receive a Federal Pell Grant. Students must be full-time regular
  students in an eligible program at an eligible institution of higher education and
  making satisfactory academic progress. Students are required to pursue a major
  in physical, life, or computer sciences, mathematics, technology, engineering or
  a critical foreign language, and obtain a cumulative GPA of at least 3.0 in the
  coursework required for the major being pursued. In addition, students must sign
  a statement of educational purpose, not owe a refund on a Title IV grant, and not
  be in default on a Title IV loan. Eligible males that are at least 18 years old and
  born after December 31, 1959, can receive aid only if they have registered with
  the Selective Service.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is exempted from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Student completes a "Free Application for Federal Student Aid" and submits it
  to the agency specified on the form. Students may apply using a paper
  application, an electronic application, or via the Internet. The Department of
  Education calculates the student's eligibility for assistance and the agency to
  which the student sent the application returns a notification to the student of his
  or her eligibility for assistance. The student submits this notification to the
  institution of his or her choice in order to have his or her award calculated. This
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Institutions act as disbursing agents for the Department of Education. The
  institution that the student attends calculates and disburses the SMART Grants,
  using a payment schedule developed by the Department of Education that
  determines the amount of the award based on the amount of available funding
  and the estimated number of recipients.
Deadlines:
  Contact the program office for deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 2 to 4 weeks.
Appeals:
  An institution, on the basis of supplemental documentation, may rule that an
