Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  The Department will allocate Title I School Improvement funds among States in      
  the same proportion as funds are allocated among the States under Title I, Part    
  A, Part C, and Part D, subpart 1. The SEA determines the amount of funds           
  allocated to school districts.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  The Department is in the process of issuing guidance and instructions for States   
  to use in applying for these funds.                                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Gary Rutkin, Office of Elementary and Secondary Education/Compensatory             
  Education Programs, Department of Education, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W.,            
  3W214, Washington, DC 20202-6132. Contact: Gary Rutkin. E-mail:                    
  Gary.rutkin@ed.gov. Telephone: (202) 260-4412.                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ed.gov/oese .                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  84.010, Title I Grants to Local Educational Agencies.                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Not applicable; the Department awards funds to States through a formula.           
                                                                                     
84.378 COLLEGE ACCESS CHALLENGE GRANT                                                
                                                                                     
PROGRAM

                                                                                     
   (CACGP)                                                                           
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, HIGHER EDUCATION                                
  PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Title VII, Part E of Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended, 20 U.S.C.           
  Section 1141.                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To foster partnerships among federal, State and local government entities and      
  philanthropic organizations through matching challenge grants aimed at             
  increasing the number of underrepresented students who enter and remain in         
  postsecondary education.                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  States or philanthropic organizations (if a State does not meet program            
  requirements) use funds to implement services and activities needed to achieve     
  the goals and objectives of the program. The services and activities authorized    
  in the statute include: providing information to students and families on          
  postsecondary education planning, benefits, opportunities, financing options and   
  career preparation; assisting students in completing FAFSA; engaging outreach      
  activities; offering professional development for middle and secondary guidance    
  counselors and college SFA and admissions administrators; providing need           
  based grant aid; repaying student loans or lower interest rates; and offering      
  tutoring/mentoring services, and other support services. A grantee may use not     
  more than 6 percent of the total amount of the sum of the federal share provided   
  and nonfederal share required for administrative purposes.                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  An eligible applicant is the State agency with jurisdiction over higher education, 
  or another agency designated by the Governor of the State. The Secretary may       
  award funds to philanthropic organizations in cases where the State fails to meet  
  program requirements.                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  The authorized beneficiaries are underrepresented students and families.           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  States or philanthropic organizations (if a State does not meet program            
  requirements) must submit an application containing a description of the           
  capacity to administer grant activities and services, a plan for using grant funds 
  to meet the requirements and special efforts to benefit underrepresented students, 
  and how the nonfederal share will be provided, and the structure the state has in  
  place to administer the activities and services. The governor of a state must      
  designate in writing which State agency is authorized to administer the grant. A   
  letter from the governor (on letterhead, signed and dated) must be included in     
  the application.                                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The program is eligible for coverage under Executive Order 12372,                  
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult        
  with the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his/her   
  State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in     
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.         




1190                                                                           11-08

Application Procedure:
  Each State must submit an application covering a 2-year period to the
  Department of Education.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed for quality and compliance with statutory and
  regulatory requirements. An allotment is awarded to States or philanthropic
  organizations if the Assistant Secretary determines the application meets
  necessary requirements.
Deadlines:
  Contact the headquarters office for deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The estimated range of time need to approve/disapprove an application is
  usually three months after the deadline for submission.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  State applications are amended as needed. Awards are generally made around
  June 30 of each year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funds are awarded on a formula basis to States (or philanthropic organizations if
  a State does not meet program requirements). Allotments are based on the
  relative number of persons between the ages of 5 and 17 and 15 and 44 living
  below the poverty line with no State receiving less than a half of one percent of
  the funds appropriated for a fiscal year. Poverty status data for participating
  States will be obtained from the Census Bureau. The minimum allotment for
  each State for a fiscal year cannot be an amount that is less than 0.5 percent of
  the total amount appropriated for the program. The statute requires a nonfederal
  matching contribution of not less than 1/3 of the costs of the project activities
  and services. This may be provided through in-kind and/or cash contributions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are made for up to two years, subject to the availability of funds.
Reports:
  States or philanthropic organizations (if a State does not meet program
  requirements) administering the grant must submit an annual performance
  report. The report must include: each activity or service that was provided to
  students and families over the course of the year; the cost of providing each
  activity or service; and the total contributions from private organizations
  included as nonfederal share for the fiscal year.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees must maintain appropriate records pertaining to grant funds,
  compliance and project performance, for three years after the completion of
  activities for which the grant or subgrant funds were used. This documentation
  should be sufficient to establish fiscal accountability and facilitate an effective
  audit.
Account Identification:
  91-0201-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est. $66,000,000 and FY 09 est. not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  This is a new program. Data on range and average is not yet available.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  This is a new program; no accomplishments are available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The administration of the formula grant program is governed by the statute and
  EDGAR (34 CFR 76, 77, 79, 80, 81, 82 and 85).
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, Office of Postsecondary Education, College Access
  Challenge Grant Program, 400 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC
  20202. Contact: Karmon Simms-Coates, Telephone: (202) 502-7807.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/cacg/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  There are no examples of projects that were funded based upon a grant
  competition since this is a new program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  State will receive funding based on the submission of an approvable application.
   The application must present a viable plan to achieve goals and objectives and
  also comply with statutory and regulatory requirements.
