84.379 TEACHER EDUCATION ASSISTANCE FOR                                               
COLLEGE AND HIGHER EDUCATION GRANTS (TEACH                                            
                                                                                      
GRANTS)                                                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FEDERAL STUDENT AID, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Higher Education Act of 1965, Title IV, Part A, Subpart 9, as amended.              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide annual grants of up to $4,000 to eligible undergraduate and graduate     
  students who agree to teach specified high-need subjects at schools serving         
  primarily disadvantaged populations for four years within eight years of            
  graduation. For students who do not fulfill their service requirements, grants      
  convert to Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loans with interest accrued from the        
  date of award.                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  See institutional and student eligibility requirements listed below.                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Undergraduate and graduate students completing coursework or other                  
  requirements necessary to begin a career in teaching. Students must attend an       
  institution of higher education that provides high-quality teacher preparation and  
  professional development services; is financially sound; provides, or assists in    
  the provision, of pedagogical coursework; and provides, or assists in the           
  provision, of supervision and support services to teachers.                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  This program was created by the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of            
  2007, Public Law 110-84; it will begin operation on July 1, 2008. Students          
  must have a grade-point-average (GPA) comparable to a 3.25 on a scale of zero       
  to 4.0, except that, if the student is in the first year of undergraduate education,
  the grade point average is determined based on the student's cumulative             
  secondary school grade point average. A student applying for a grant to obtain a    
  graduate degree must be a teacher or a retiree from another occupation with         
  expertise in a field in which there is a shortage of teachers; grants for graduate  
  education may also be obtained by a student who is or was a teacher who is          
  pursuing high-quality alternative certification. In addition, students must sign an 
  agreement to serve under which they agree to serve as a full-time teacher for not   
  less than four years within eight years of completing the course of study for       
  which they received a TEACH Grant. Service must be performed at a school            
  serving a primarily disadvantaged population and must be in one of the              
  following fields: mathematics, science, a foreign language, bilingual education,    
  special education, as a reading specialist, or in another field documented as       
  high-need. Students must also agree to provide evidence of qualifying               
  employment upon completion of each year of service. Failure to complete these       
  service requirements results in the student's TEACH Grants being treated as         
  Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loans, with interest accrued from the date     
  of award. Students must also sign a statement of educational purpose, not owe a     
  refund on a Title IV grant, and not be in default on a Title IV loan. Eligible      
  males that are at least 18 years old and born after December 31, 1959, can          
  receive aid only if they have registered with the Selective Service.                
                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

  This program is exempted from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is            
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.

Application Procedure:                                                                
  Students must complete a FAFSA, complete an agreement to serve and submit it        
  to the Department of Education. This program is excluded from coverage under        
  OMB Circular No. A-110.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Institutions act as disbursing agents for the Department of Education. The          
  institution that the student attends disburses the TEACH Grants based on the        
  enrollment status of the student.                                                   
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the program office for deadlines.                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 2 to 4 weeks.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                              
  To be determined in regulation.                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Students who have applied in the previous award year must continue to meet all      
  eligibility requirements and reaffirm their intention to fulfill the service        
  requirements before obtaining subsequent grants.                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Students are limited to one TEACH Grant during an academic year. Funds for          
  these grants will likely be disbursed at least twice during an academic year.       
Reports:                                                                              
                                                                                      
                                                                                 11-08
  Institutions will be required to furnish reports, periodically, on the disbursement
  of funds, as well as furnish any other reports the Secretary requires. Students
  must affirm each year that they intend to fulfill their service requirements and
  submit a certification for each year of required service.
Audits:
  Annual audits will be made.
Records:
  All records pertaining to the eligibility of each TEACH Grant recipient and all
  fiscal management records must be maintained by the institution for a period of
  three years or until an acceptable audit has been completed, whichever is later.
  Selected students will have the information on their applications verified.
Account Identification:
  91-0206-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $86,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Grants are up to a maximum of $4,000, and are reduced in proportion to the
  degree to which a student is in attendance less than full-time. In combination
  with other Federal student aid, awards may not exceed a student's cost of
  education. Average award: est $2,774 in FY 2008.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  This program was created by the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of
  2007; it will begin operation on July 1, 2008. The Department of Education
  estimates that FY 2008 funding will support awards to 31,000 students.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program was created by the College Cost Reduction and Access Act of
  2007; it will begin operation on July 1, 2008. Regulations and guidance are
  under development.
Regional or Local Office:
  Federal Student Aid Information Center. Telephone: (800) 433-3243. Regional
  Director, Federal Student Aid, the Director of Financial Aid at the institution the
  student wishes to attend, high school guidance counselors, or directors of State
  agencies.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Postsecondary Education, Department of Education, 400 Maryland
  Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20202. Telephone: (800) 433-2343.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ifap.ed.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.063, Federal Pell Grant Program; 84.007, Federal Supplemental Educational
  Opportunity Grants; 84.032, Federal Family Education Loans; 84.033, Federal
  Work-Study Program; 84.037, Perkins Loan Cancellations; 84.038, Federal
  Perkins Loan Program_Federal Capital Contributions; 84.042, TRIO_Student
  Support Services; 84.044, TRIO_Talent Search; 84.047, TRIO_Upward Bound;
  84.063, Federal Pell Grant Program; 84.066, TRIO_Educational Opportunity
  Centers; 84.069, Leveraging Educational Assistance Partnership; 84.375,
  Academic Competitiveness Grants; 84.376, National Science and Mathematics
  Access to Retain Talent (SMART) Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
84.380 SPECIAL EDUCATION -- OLYMPIC EDUCATION
PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF SPECIAL EDUCATION AND REHABILITATIVE SERVICES,
  DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Special Olympic Sports and Empowerment Act, Section 3(a), 42 U.S.C. 15001.
OBJECTIVES:
  This program promotes the expansion of Special Olympics and the design and
  implementation of Special Olympics education programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds must be used to support the objectives of the program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Special Olympics is the only eligible recipients of funds.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals with intellectual disabilities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is not covered under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of
  Federal Programs".
Application Procedure:
  Special Olympics shall submit on application at such time, in such maner, and
  containing such information as the Department may require.
Award Procedure:
                                                                                   1191
