  N.W., Washington, DC 20006. Contact: Kathy Price, Telephone: (202) 502-             
  7774.                                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.ed.gov/programs/tct .                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Selection criteria can be found in EDGAR CFR Part 75.210.                           
                                                                                      
84.382 STRENGTHENING MINORITY-SERVING                                                 
                                                                                      
INSTITUTIONS                                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION, HIGHER EDUCATION                                 
  PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION.                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Title IV, Part J, Section 499A of the Higher Education Act of 1965, as amended      
  by section 802 of the College Cost Reduction and Access Act (CCRAA) of              
  2007.                                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To strengthen Predominantly Black Institutions (PBI); Asian American and            
  Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions (AANAPISI); and Native        
  American-Serving Non-tribal Institutions (NASNTI) that propose to carry out         
  activities to improve and expand such institution's capacity to serve minority      
  students.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Applicants under the PBI program may use funds to carry out programs in             
  science, technology, engineering, or mathematics (STEM); health education;          
  internationalization or globalization; teacher preparation; or improving            
  educational outcomes of African American males. Applicants under the                
  AANAPISI and NASNTI programs may use funds to assist such institutions with         
  planning, developing, undertaking and carrying out activities to improve and        
  expand the institution's capacity to serve Asian American and Native American       
  Pacific Islanders and Native Americans. More specifically, AANAPISI grantees        
  may use funds to carry out activities described in section 311(c). NASNTI           
  grantees may use funds for the purchase, rental, or lease of scientific laboratory  
  equipment for educational purposes, including instructional and research            
  purposes; renovation and improvement in classroom, library, laboratory, and         
  other instructional facilities; support of faculty exchanges, faculty development,  
  and faculty fellowships to assist faculty in attaining advanced degrees in the      
  faculty's field of instruction; curriculum development and academic instruction;    
  the purchase of library books, periodicals, microfilm, and other educational        
  materials, funds and administrative management, and acquisition of equipment        
  for use in strengthening funds management; the joint use of facilities such as      
                                                                                      
  laboratories and libraries; and academic tutoring and counseling programs and

                                                                                      
  student support services. Uses of funds under each program are restricted to the

                                                                                      
  allowable activities described under the CCRAA.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

  At the time of application, PBIs must have an enrollment of undergraduate           
                                                                                      
  students that is at least 40 percent Black American students. AANAPISI and

                                                                                      
  NASNTI applicants must have, at the time of application, an enrollment of

                                                                                      
  undergraduate students not less than 10 percent Asian American and Native

                                                                                      
  American Pacific Islanders and Native Americans, respectively.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  The authorized beneficiaries are underrepresented; low-income; first-generation;    
                                                                                      
  minority; undergraduate students.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  Institutions of Higher Education must submit an application responding to the

                                                                                      
  established selection criteria. Applicants must describe in detail, the need for the
  project and how the proposed activities will address the goals and objectives of

  the program.

Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 and the

  regulations in 34 CFR Part 79. Information about Intergovernmental Review of

  Federal Programs under Executive Order 12372 is in the application package for

  this program.

Application Procedure:

  Each applicant must submit an application covering a period not to exceed 24-

  months to the Department of Education.

Award Procedure:

  Applications are reviewed for quality and compliance with statutory and

  regulatory requirements. A discretionary grant is awarded to institutions of

  higher education if they score within funding range and contingent upon funds

  being available.

Deadlines:

  Please refer to the Federal Register Notice or the application booklet for



                                                                                 11-08
  deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  An applicant is notified of award status within 30 days of the end of the
  competition.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Discretionary grant applications are amended as needed. Awards are generally
  made around June 30 of each year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are made for up to 24 months, subject to the availability of funds.
Reports:
  Institutions of higher education administering these grants must submit an
  annual performance report at the completion of the each 12-month cycle. IHEs
  are also required to submit final reports ninety (90) days after the end of the
  grant.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees must maintain appropriate records pertaining to grant funds,
  compliance and project performance, for three years after the completion of
  activities for which the grant or subgrant funds were used. This documentation
  should be sufficient to establish fiscal accountability and facilitate an effective
  audit.
Account Identification:
  91-0201-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $25,000,000; and FY 09 est $25,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  PBI, $600,000 per year; AANAPISI $1,000,000 to $1,500,000 per year;
  NASNTI $1,000,000 to $1,500,000 per year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  No accomplishments are available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The administration of discretionary grant programs is governed by the College
  Cost Reduction and Access Act (CCRAA) of 2007 and the Education
  Department General Administrative Regulations.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Education, Office of Postsecondary Education, Institutional
  Development and Undergraduate Education Service, 1990 K Street, N.W., 6TH
  Floor, Washington, DC 20006. Contact: James E. Laws, Jr., Telephone: (202)
  502-7777.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/pbi/ for the Predominantly Black Institutions
  Program http://www.ed.gov/programs/aanapiccraa/ for the Asian American and
  Native American Pacific Islander-Serving Institutions Program
  http://www.ed.gov/programs/nasnticcraa/ for the Native American-Serving Non-
  Tribal Institutions Program.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Selection criteria can be found in EDGAR 34 CFR Part 75.210.
                                                                                  1193
