                                    HARRY S TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION

85.001 HARRY S TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM                                             
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HARRY S. TRUMAN SCHOLARSHIP FOUNDATION                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Harry S Truman Memorial Scholarship Act, Public Law 93-642, 88 Stat. 2276-

                                                                                      
  2280, 20 U.S.C. 2001-2013.

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                      
  To honor former President Harry S Truman through the operation of an

                                                                                      
  education scholarship program, financed by a permanent trust fund endowment,

                                                                                      
  to develop increased opportunities for young Americans to prepare for and

                                                                                      
  pursue careers in public service.

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                      
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.

                                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                      
  Assistance is intended for the use of Scholars only.

Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Undergraduate junior level students at four year colleges and universities who      
  are properly nominated by accredited colleges or universities recognized by the     
  Department of Education.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  U.S. citizens or nationals, college juniors.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Enrolled, matriculated in a degree program at an accredited U.S. college;           
  Pursuing a bachelor's degree as a full-time student during the forthcoming          
  academic year; ranked in the upper quarter of her or his class; U.S. citizen or     
  national; selected field of study that will permit admission to a graduate or       
  professional program allowing better preparation for a career in public service.    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Each July the chief executive officers of all accredited U.S. colleges and          
  universities are invited to appoint a Truman Scholarship Faculty Representative     
  to manage the selection and nomination of up to four students for the               
  forthcoming year's Truman Scholarships. The standard online nomination forms        
  with instructions will be available on the Foundation's website                     
  (http://www.truman.gov) in September to the designated faculty representatives      
  of all such institutions whose presidents or chancellors inform the Foundation of   
  their intent to participate. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.      
  12372.                                                                              
                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  The faculty representative of an institution is the key person in the Truman

                                                                                      
  Scholarship selection process and serves as liaison between her or his institution

                                                                                      
  and the Foundation. The faculty representative is responsible for publicizing the

                                                                                      
  Truman Scholarship on campus, soliciting recommendations on students with

                                                                                      
  significant potential for leadership in public service from members of the

                                                                                      
  faculty, conducting a competition on campus in order to determine the

                                                                                      
  candidates best qualified to be nominated by the institution, helping prepare the

                                                                                      
  nominees for the competition, and insuring that the institution's official

                                                                                      
  nomination or nominations are forwarded to the Truman Scholarship Review

                                                                                      
  Committee by the stated deadline. The following information, on the official

  nominating materials, must be included with each Scholarship nomination be          
                                                                                      
  submitted online and include: 1. The nomination and supporting information for

                                                                                      
  the Harry S Truman Scholarship Program must include a certification that the

                                                                                      
  student is a candidate for a Truman Scholarship; a statement that the student

                                                                                      
  plans to pursue a career in public service; a list of the student's public service  
  activities such as those associated with government agencies, community             
  groups, and political campaigns; a list of leadership positions the student has     
  held during high school and during the first two and one-half years of              
  undergraduate study; a statement of interest in a career in public service that     
  specifies how the student's educational plans will provide preparation for that     
  career; and a statement that the student is willing to participate in a week long   
  seminar sponsored by the Foundation. 2. It must also contain an essay of 500        
  words written by the student that analyzes a public policy issue chosen by the      
  student; transcripts of the student's college grades; and four letters of           
  recommendation. One letter must be from the Truman Faculty Representative;          
  one of the letters must be written by a faculty member in the student's field of    
  study; one by another person who can discuss the student's leadership potential     
  and abilities, and, the fourth letter from a person who can discuss the student's   
  commitment to public service.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  1. Initial evaluation: Students nominated for consideration as Harry S Truman       
  Scholars will be evaluated on the basis of: a. the extent to which the student has  
  shown an outstanding potential for leadership in public service, b. the extent of   
  participation in community and public service activities, c. the appropriateness    
  of the candidate's intended plan of study to prepare him/her for a career in public 
  service, d. the student's academic performance. 2. Interviews: Finalists selected   
  as a result of the initial evaluation of the credentials of all nominees are        
  interviewed by Regional Review Panels, composed primarily of prominent              
  public officials and previous recipients of Truman Scholarships. Each Review        


1194                                                                            11-08

  Panel will recommend from among the qualified applicants one person from
  each State or district for appointment by the Board of Trustees as a Truman
  Scholar, plus up to two additional persons for Scholarships at large from each
  region. The Review Panels will concentrate their evaluation on the nominees'
  demonstrated interest in the public service, their relative potential for leadership
  in government, their analytical abilities, their commitment to careers in public
  service, and the quality of their submitted materials. Among the characteristics
  they will assess in making this judgment are the following: analytic ability,
  communication skills, integrity, self-confidence, sensitivity to others, ability to
  explain with clarity a complex situation, a demonstrated interest in public
  service, and a commitment to future public service. 3. Final Selection: From
  among the candidates recommended by the Review Panels, the Board of
  Trustees will name up to 75 winners of Harry S Truman Scholarships.
Deadlines:
  All materials must be submitted by the student's faculty representative via the
  online application system. Please visit http://www.truman.gov for application
  procedure and application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  1. February, each year - Scholarship nominees are evaluated and Finalists
  selected. 2. February- March, each year - Truman Scholarship Finalists are
  interviewed. 3. April, each year - The Truman Scholars are selected by the Board
  of Trustees of the Harry S Truman Scholarship Foundation.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  1. It is the intent of the Foundation to renew Scholarship awards made to college
  juniors for a period not to exceed three academic years of their graduate study
  program, in accordance with the regulations established by its Board of Trustees,
  and subject to an annual review for compliance with these requirements. 2. The
  Foundation may terminate a Scholarship: a. when a student has not maintained,
  satisfactory proficiency, or b. when the student is no longer enrolled in a
  program preparing her or him specifically for public service as specified by the
  Foundation. 3. A Scholar may seek postponement of her or his award because of
  ill health or other mitigating circumstances, upon application to the Executive
  Secretary.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  To be eligible to receive payments, a Truman Scholar must submit in writing: 1.
  an acceptance of the Scholarship award, 2. An annual report, and 3. at the
  beginning of each academic year, a statement of eligible expenses certified by
  the authorized financial officer of the enrolling institution, including those of
  tuition, fees, books, and room and board, an additional certification regarding
  the Scholar's academic program, an annual report, and other certifications as
  required by law or regulation. The number of payments to be made via Treasury
  check during the academic year will correspond to the number of semesters,
  trimesters, or quarters in the institution's academic year and the amount of funds
  to be provided, the total not to exceed $30,000.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  95-8296-0-7-502.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $2,000 to $15,000; $12,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since the Program's inception, 2405 (of a total of approximately 22,100
  nominees) college students studying for careers in public service have received
  scholarship assistance. The first classes of Truman Scholars are progressing
  well toward their goals of preparation for public service by gaining acceptance to
  high quality postgraduate programs, by pursuing Foundation-assisted or self-
  initiated internship opportunities, and by securing positions in government at the
  Federal, State, and local levels.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 1801.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Louis Blair, Executive Secretary, 712 Jackson Place, NW., Washington, DC
  20006. Telephone: (202) 395-4831. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.truman.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
