  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                     
                                                                                      
85.100 CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS FELLOWSHIP                                                
                                                                                      
PROGRAM                                                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CHRISTOPHER COLUMBUS FELLOWSHIP FOUNDATION                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Christopher Columbus Quincentenary Coins and Fellowship Foundation, Public          
  Law 102-281, Title IV, 106 Stat. 139-145, 20 U.S.C. 5701-5708.                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To encourage and support research, study, and labor designed to produce new         
  discoveries in all fields of endeavor for the benefit of mankind.                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants; Provision of Specialized Services.                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Assistance is intended for the advancement of programs and individuals that         
  pursue new discoveries.                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  United States citizens may apply.                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  United States citizens will benefit.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  In order to fulfill its mission, the Foundation has developed Frontiers of

                                                                                      
  Discovery programs. WORK IN PROGRESS - The Work in Progress program

                                                                                      
  is accomplished through two separate programs. 1) Homeland Security Award -

                                                                                      
  A single $25,000 award will be presented to an American individual/company

                                                                                      
  that is making measurable and constructive contributions related to basic and/or

                                                                                      
  advanced research in the area of homeland security which will result in a

                                                                                      
  significant and positive benefit to society. The Award will be sponsored by the

                                                                                      
  public-private partnership of the Foundation and presented by AgustaWestland

                                                                                      
  North America, one of the world's largest helicopter manufacturers. The mission

                                                                                      
  of the Award is to promote and encourage "cutting edge" innovation in the vast

                                                                                      
  arena of homeland security including but not limited to preventing, detecting or

                                                                                      
  responding to threats from biological, radiological, nuclear, chemical and

                                                                                      
  explosive attacks; border and transportation security; emergency responses to

                                                                                      
  natural and man-made disasters; and cyber security and information sharing. All

                                                                                      
  nominations are received online at: www.ccolumbusfoundationawards.org. 2)

                                                                                      
  Life Sciences Awards - In partnership with the U.S. Chamber of Commerce, the

                                                                                      
  Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation will present four monetary awards

                                                                                      
  as follows: one $25,000 award to an adult scientist or researcher; one $10,000

                                                                                      
  award to a current secondary school education; and $5,000 awards to two

                                                                                      
  current secondary school students in biology and chemistry who are judged to

                                                                                      
  exemplify excellence in life sciences. The new Life Sciences Awards are             
  designed to encourage and promote "cutting edge" innovation in the field of life    
  sciences. The awards will provide incentive for continuing the research. All        
  nominations are received online at: www.ccolumbusfoundationawards.org.              
  DISCOVER THE FUTURE - The Future program is accomplished through two                
  separate programs. 1) Christopher Columbus Awards - The Christopher                 
  Columbus Awards program is a national competition which asks sixth through          
  eighth grade students to identify a problem in their community and then solve it    
  using the scientific method. The program is designed to foster curiosity,           
  creativity and critical thinking skills in youth with diverse backgrounds, interests
  and abilities. The students work in teams of three or four. The teams' entries are  
  reviewed by a regional panel of judges who select 30 semi-finalist teams. The       
  Finalist judging selects eight finalist teams to compete in the National finals.    
  The National judging is held at Walt Disney World (R) Resorts, Orlando, FL. In      
  addition, the finalists attend the Christopher Columbus Academy, a custom-          
  designed program that takes the students through a one-of-a-kind educational        
  experience. One of the teams wins the $25,000 Columbus Foundation                   
  Community Grant to take back to their community to make their idea a reality.       
  The program is managed by MMS Education, 105 Terry Drive, Newtown, PA               
  18940, Attn: Stephanie Hallman. Visit: www.christophercolumbusawards.com.           
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. 2) $10,000 Freida J.       
  Riley Teacher Award - The purpose of the Freida J. Riley Teacher Award is to        
  identify and reward an American teacher who "has overcame tremendous                
                                                                                      
  adversity or made an enormous sacrifice in order to positively impact students."

                                                                                      
  The award is open to any certified classroom teacher who is presently teaching

                                                                                      
  full-time (grades K-12), in an accredited U.S. public, private, or charter school.

                                                                                      
  The award will be presented to a teacher who is working with a physical

                                                                                      
  disability, is dealing with an especially challenging educational environment, or

                                                                                      
  has performed a heroic act for his/her students. The award will not be given

                                                                                      
  posthumously. The program is managed by the Christopher Columbus

                                                                                      
  Fellowship Foundation, 110 Genesee Street, Suite 390, Auburn, NY 13021.



                                                                                 11-08
  Visit: http://www.columbusfdn.org/freidajriley/default.asp.
Application Procedure:
  "WORK IN PROGRESS" 1) Homeland Security Award - The winner of the
  Homeland Security Award must be an American individual/company that is
  making measurable and constructive contributions related to basic and/or
  advanced research in the area of homeland security which will result in a
  significant and positive benefit to society. All nominations are received online at
  www.ccolumbusfoundationawards.org. Innovations in all homeland security
  areas will be accepted. The deadline is May 23, 2008. 2) Life Sciences Awards -
  The four winners must be U.S. citizens and be permitted by their employer or
  any other relevant authority to accept a monetary award bestowed by the
  Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation, a Federal government agency.
  All nominations are received online at www.ccolumbusfoundationawards.org.
  DISCOVER THE FUTURE -Christopher Columbus Awards - Entries will be
  accepted from teams of three or four students in grades six to eight from all 50
  States, territories and possessions. All team entries must consist of a Christopher
  Columbus Awards Entry form (signed by the team members and the coach), a
  team-written section and the visual component. To enter, mail an original and
  two copies of the teams' community solution to: Christopher Columbus Awards,
  105 Terry Drive, Suite 120, Newtown, PA 18940. Visit
  www.christophercolumbusawards.com. The deadline for entries is March 17,
  2008. Freida J. Riley Teacher Award - The Freida J. Riley Teacher Award is
  limited to any certified classroom teacher who is presently teaching full-time
  (grades K-12), in an accredited U.S. public, private, or charter school. The award
  will be presented to a teacher "working with a physical disability, dealing with
  an especially challenging educational environment, or who has performed a
  heroic act for his/her students." The award will not be given posthumously. The
  deadline for entries is February 4, 2008. Application information is available
  from the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation, 110 Genesee Street,
  Suite 390, Auburn, NY 13021. Visit:
  http://www.columbusfndn.org/freidajriley/default.asp.
Award Procedure:
  WORK IN PROGRESS - Homeland Security Award - All entries are read by the
  Board of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation and a
  national Evaluation Committee. The Board of Trustees and AgustaWestland
  ultimately select the winner. The Award will be presented in Washington, D.C.
  on September 11, 2008. Life Sciences Award - All entries are read by the Board
  of Trustees of the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation and a national
  Evaluation Committee. The Board of Trustees and the U.S. Chamber of
  Commerce ultimately select the winner. The Award will be presented in
  Washington, D.C. on a date in June 9, 2008. DISCOVER THE FUTURE - The
  Christopher Columbus Awards have three judging phases. The finals and the
  Christopher Columbus Academy are held at the Walt Disney World Resorts,
  Orlando, FL from June 16 - June 20, 2008. Freida J. Riley Teacher Award -
  Applications are evaluated by a panel of national judges. The Board of Trustees
  selects the winner. The award will be presented on May 1, 2008 in Bridgeport,
  West Virginia.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Christopher Columbus Fellowship Foundation for deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  76-8187-0-7-502.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $484,909; FY 08 est $290,000; and FY 09 est $300,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $10,000 to $25,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In 2007, the $25,000 Homeland Security Award was presented to Douglas L.
  McMakin, Staff Engineer in the Applied Physics Group at Pacific Northwest
  National Laboratory, operated by Battelle for the U.S. Department of Energy,
  Richland, WA for the development of the first-of-its-kind personnel security
  system that safely detects non-metallic and metallic objects, including explosives
  that might be worn by a suicide bomber. The system provides a safe, fast and
  effective alternative to metal detectors, X-ray machines and pat-down searches
  at security checkpoints. As Project Manager and Technical Lead at the Radar
                                                                                  1195
