  Imaging Laboratory, where he has worked since 1987, Mr. McMakin and his           
  team developed and tested innovative real-time microwave and millimeter-wave      
  holographic-imaging systems for airport personnel screening for the U.S. Federal  
  Aviation Administration (now the TSA) and body-measurements for biometrics        
  and clothing applications using various planar and cylindrical imaging            
  techniques. Mr. McMakin was very active in the commercialization of these         
  technologies with two licensed partners L-3/SafeView (www.safeviewinc.com)        
  and Intellifit (www.intellifit.com). In 2007, the $25,000 Columbus Foundation     
  Community Grant went to a team of students from West Branch Middle School,        
  West Branch, IA, for their Unrecognized Hazard: Used Oil Filters project.         
  Concerned about the environmental hazards caused by used oil filters being        
  disposed of in household trash and ultimately landfills, the students developed a 
  public awareness campaign to educate the community about this environmental       
  hazard. The Frank Annunzio Chairman's Award, named for the Foundation's           
  Founder, the Honorable Frank Annunzio, went to the Saltwater Marshals team        
  from Ripley's Aquarium, Myrtle Beach, SC, for their solution to an alternative    
  energy problem. The team developed a tidal mill using the ocean's tides to        
  generate energy and an environmental education program to address the problem     
  of disappearing salt marshes and the need for alternative energy sources. Team    
  members each received a $1,000 U.S. Savings Bond. A $5,000 donation is            
  presented to a non-profit organization of their choice to help implement their    
  project. The 2007 Freida J. Riley Teacher Award was presented to Joanne B.        
  Tindall, Teaching Principal at the W.F. Tallman School, Nashville Transition      
  Center, for the Tennessee Department of Children's Services, Nashville, TN.       
  Doctors told Joanne's parents that she would most likely be mentally retarded,    
  would never walk or talk, and should possibly be institutionalized due to her     
  premature birth and diagnosis of cerebral palsy at age two. Defying the doctors'  
  dire predictions, Joanne quickly learned to walk and talk and has worked hard to  
  remain ambulatory. Far exceeding the school system's expectations, she was        
  quickly mainstreamed from self-contained special education classrooms into        
  inclusion classrooms not only by graduating from high school as a National        
  Honor Society student, but graduating as a member of Phi Beta Kappa from          
  Tennessee Technological University with a teaching degree in special education,   
  followed by a Master's Degree in Administration and Supervision. Building on      
  the lessons learned through her own experiences as a disabled student, Joanne     
  was determined to become a teacher and make a difference in her students' lives.  
  She has dedicated her career to working with students with all types of special   
  needs. After teaching for a few years, she began working as a crisis hotline      
  phone counselor on weekends at a mental health center. This soon led to           
  teaching GED classes to adult clients in the alcohol drug treatment facility and  
  then the lead teacher and principal position of the adolescent day-treatment      
  program. This eventually led to her current position as a teaching principal in a 
  State-operated juvenile justice facility, where many of her students have         
  earnedregulardiplomas,GEDs,orspecialeducationdiplomasin this very difficult       
  teaching and learning environment.                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  None.                                                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Judith M. Shellenberger, Executive Director, 110 Genesee Street, Suite 390,       
  Auburn, New York 13021. Telephone: (315) 258-0090. Fax: (315) 258-0093.           
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.columbusfdn.org .                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  None.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  None.                                                                             
                                                                                    
85.200 BARRY M. GOLDWATER SCHOLARSHIP                                               
                                                                                    
PROGRAM

                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  BARRY M. GOLDWATER SCHOLARSHIP AND EXCELLENCE IN                                  
  EDUCATION FOUNDATION                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Public Law 99-661, 20 U.S.C. 4701-4711.                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To honor former Senator Barry Goldwater through the operation of an education     
  scholarship program, financed by a permanent trust fund endowment, designed       
  to encourage outstanding students to pursue careers in mathematics, the natural   
  sciences, and engineering.                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Assistance is intended solely for the use of scholars.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Undergraduate sophomore and junior level students, at two and four year           


1196                                                                          11-08

  colleges and universities accredited by the Department of Education, may be
  nominated by the institution's Goldwater Faculty Representative.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  U.S. citizens or nationals, resident aliens (must provide additional
  documentation), college sophomores and juniors will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must be enrolled, matriculated in a degree program at an accredited
  U.S. college, pursuing a Bachelor's degree as a full-time student during the
  forthcoming academic year, maintaining a "B" average, ranked in the upper
  fourth of his or her class, be a U.S. citizen, national or resident alien (resident
  aliens must include a letter of the nominee's intent to become a U.S. citizen and
  a photocopy of the Alien Registration Card) and have selected a field of study
  that will permit admission to a graduate or professional program in preparation
  for a career in mathematics, the natural sciences, or engineering.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Each August the chief executive officer from all 2 and 4-year colleges and
  universities is invited to appoint a Goldwater Scholarship Faculty Representative
  to manage the selection and nomination of up to four (two for two year schools)
  students for the forthcoming year's Goldwater Scholarship competition. In
  September, the standard nomination forms will be provided to the designated
  faculty representatives of all institutions whose President or Chancellor has
  advised the Foundation of their intent to participate in the competition. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The faculty representative of an institution is the key person in the Goldwater
  selection process and serves as liaison between his or her institution and the
  Foundation. The faculty representative is responsible for publicizing the
  Goldwater Scholarship on campus, soliciting recommendations on outstanding
  students with proven capability and potential in the fields of mathematics,
  science and engineering from members of the faculty, and conducting a
  competition on campus in order to determine the best qualified nominees from
  the institution. The faculty representative assists the nominees in the preparation
  of the nomination package and ensures that they are accurate, complete, and
  forwarded to the Goldwater Scholarship Review Panel by the stated deadline for
  the competition. The following information must be included on the official
  nomination materials with each scholarship nomination: 1. An institution
  nomination form signed by the faculty representative stating that the nominee
  meets the qualifications for the scholarship. 2. Biographical data and educational
  background information regarding past and future academic plans and career
  goals must be submitted. 3. A 600 word essay by the nominee discussing a
  significant issue or problem in his or her field of study of interest must be
  submitted. 4. Three independent letters of evaluation from faculty members or
  others qualified to assess the nominee's performance and potential for a career in
  the nominee's chosen field of study must be submitted. 5. All transcripts from
  secondary schools and colleges attended must be submitted.
Award Procedure:
  Each nominee will be evaluated by an independent review panel of academicians
  and college administrators from colleges and universities throughout the United
  States. In awarding scholarships, the Foundation Board of Trustees will
  consider the nominee's field of study and career objectives and the extent to
  which that individual has the commitment and potential to make a significant
  contribution to his or her chosen field of study. It is expected that students
  selected as scholars will pursue advanced degrees. Final selection of candidates
  is recommended by the independent review panel. The Board of Trustees will
  name up to 300 Goldwater Scholars.
Deadlines:
  February 2 is the deadline for receipt of nomination materials. All materials
  must be submitted by the student's faculty representative. Nominations from
  individuals other than the faculty representative will not be considered.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  February, of each year scholarship nominees are evaluated by Independent
  Review Panel and ranked by relative merit. March of each year a Review
  Panel's results are presented to Board of Trustees. On April 1 of each year,
  Goldwater Board of Trustees announces the winners of the Goldwater
  Scholarships for the forthcoming academic year.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  It is the intent of the Foundation to support junior- level scholarships for a
  maximum of 2 academic years and senior-level scholarships for a maximum of 1
  academic year. Renewal for junior- level awards will be in accordance with the
  regulations established by the Foundation Board of Trustees and will be subject
  to an annual review by an authorized official of the institution. The scholar must
  be a full- time student and taking a course of study, training, or other
  educational activities to prepare for a career in mathematics, the natural
  sciences, or engineering. The scholar must not be engaged in gainful
  employment that interferes with the scholar's studies. The scholar must be in
  good academic standing. The scholar may seek postponement of his or her
  award because of ill health or other mitigating circumstances, upon application
  to the President.
