Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  To be eligible to receive payments, a Goldwater Scholar must submit in writing:    
  (1) An acceptance of the scholarship award, (2) an EFT form for payment by         
  direct deposit and (3) at the beginning of each academic year one payment          
  request form outlining the costs of tuition, fees, books, room and board,          
  additional expenses and any other scholarships the student is receiving for that   
  academic year. This form must be certified by a financial aid official and an      
  academic official certifying that the student is in good academic standing. Two    
  payments via treasury EFT will be made to the scholar's account during the         
  academic year in an amount equal to half of the amount for which the scholar       
  qualifies on the payment request, not to exceed $7,500 per academic year.          
Reports:                                                                             
  Each Goldwater Scholar is required to send a report each June for four years       
  following graduation outlining his or her progress toward his or her career goals. 
   They must also provide a current address when changes occur.                      
Audits:                                                                              
  Not required.                                                                      
Records:                                                                             
  Not required.                                                                      
Account Identification:                                                              
  95-8281-0-7-502.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $300,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not            
  reported.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $0 to $7,500; $6,650.                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  The Foundation, in its fifteen year history, has selected a total of 3,962         
  Goldwater Scholars. The vast majority are currently pursuing the Ph.D., while      
  most of the members of the last two classes are still at the undergraduate level.  
  As a matter of interest, 50 Goldwater Scholars have been selected as Rhodes        
  Scholars and 57 have received The Marshall Award. Numerous Goldwater               
  Scholars have received other highly prestigious postgraduate fellowships           
  including the Churchill, Truman Fulbright, Hughes, Hertz, National Science         
  Foundation and many others.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  45 CFR 2600.                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Gerald J. Smith, President, 6225 Brandon Avenue, Suite 315, Springfield, VA        
  22150-2519. Telephone: (703) 756-6012. Fax (703) 756-6015. E-Mail:                 
  goldh2o@erols.com .                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.act.org/goldwater .                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                    
                                                                                     
85.300 WOODROW WILSON CENTER FELLOWSHIPS IN                                          
THE HUMANITIES AND SOCIAL SCIENCES                                                   
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  THE WOODROW WILSON INTERNATIONAL CENTER FOR SCHOLARS                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Woodrow Wilson Memorial Act of 1968, Public Law 90-637, 82 Stat. 1356; 82          
  Stat. 1357, 20 U.S.C. 80c-80j.                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars was established by            
  Congress to symbolize and strengthen "the fruitful relationship between the        
  world of learning and the world of public affairs." It aims, in a strictly         
  nonpartisan fashion, to foster scholarship and to promote the exchange of views    
  between scholars and decision makers. The Center sponsors research, meetings,      
  and publications on history, economics, politics, international relations, the     
  environment, and many other areas. Fellows from around the world are brought       
  to Washington, DC, to encourage discourse among disciplines and professions.       
  The Center enriches the quality of knowledge and debate in the nation's capital    
  and throughout the world.                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Assistance is intended for the use of scholars only. In order to foster a true     
  community of scholars, the Woodrow Wilson Center prefers its fellows to be in      
  residence for the entire U.S. academic year from September through May. A          
  few fellowships are available for shorter periods with a minimum of 4 months.      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                11-08
  Individuals from any country are welcome to apply. Men and women with
  outstanding capabilities and experience from a wide variety of backgrounds
  (including government, the corporate world, and the professions, as well as
  academia) are eligible for appointment. Successsful fellowship applicants
  submit outstanding proposals in a broad range of the social sciences and
  humanities on national and or international issues--topics and scholarship that
  relate to key public policy challenges or provide the historical and/or cultural
  framework to illumine policy issues of contemporary importance. Proposals that
  represent essentially advocacy are not eligible. The Center normally does not
  consider projects that represent essentially the rewriting of doctoral dissertations;
  the editing of papers and documents; the preparation of textbooks or
  miscellaneous papers and reviews; anthologies, memoirs or translations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Citizens from all countries will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  For academic participants, eligibility is limited to the postdoctoral level, and
  normally it is expected that academic candidates will have demonstrated their
  scholarly development by publication beyond the Ph.D. dissertation. For other
  applicants, an equivalent degree of professional achievement is expected. An
  applicant working on a degree at the time of application (even if it is to be
  completed prior to the proposed fellowship year) is not eligible. All applicants
  should have a very good command of spoken English, since the Center is
  designed to encourage the exchange of ideas among its fellows.
Preapplication Coordination:
  There is no official preapplication process. Individuals who have questions
  about their eligibility or the focus of their proposed research should contact the
  Scholar Selection and Services Office. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications may be obtained from the Scholar Selection and Services Office
  and may be downloaded from www.wilsoncenter.org. A complete application
  must include the following: 1. a completed two-page fellowship application
  form; 2. a list of the applicant's publications (not to exceed three pages); 3. two
  letters of references sent directly to the Center by the application deadline; 4. a
  project proposal not to exceed five single-spaced pages, and 5. a completed
  financial information form (included with the application form).
Award Procedure:
  Applications are evaluated by peer review panels.
Deadlines:
  The Center holds one round of competitive selection per year. The annual
  application deadline is October 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Decisions on appointments are announced by early April.
Appeals:
  There is no official appeals process.
Renewals:
  There is no official renewal process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Woodrow Wilson Center seeks to follow the principle of no gain/no loss in
  terms of a fellow's previous year's salary. However, limited funds make it
  essential for most applicants to seek supplementary sources of funding:
  sabbatical support, other fellowships, or foundation grants. Each fellow is
  assigned a furnished office available every day around the clock. The Center's
  main offices are located in the heart of Washington, DC. Professional librarians
  provide access to the Library of Congress, university and special libraries in the
  area, and other research facilities. Windows-based personal computers or
  manuscript-typing services are available, and each fellow is offered a part-time
  research assistant. Publishing services are available through the Woodrow
  Wilson Center Press, which co-publishes with Cambridge University Press, the
  Johns Hopkins University Press, Indiana University Press, and the Stanford
  University Press.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Stipends cover the length of the residential fellowship.
Reports:
  Fellows are asked to provide the Wilson Center with two copies of any
  publications that result from research undertaken during the fellowship period.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None required.
Account Identification:
  33-0400-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,405,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In 2006-2007, the fellowship stipend, which included travel expenses for
  Fellows, their spouses, and their dependent children, ranged from $7,000 to
  $85,000. The Center also covered 3/4 of the cost of health insurance for scholars
  and their accompanying families who elected to take the insurance offered.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
                                                                                    1197
