  The Wilson Center has hosted hundreds of scholars working in fields spanning           
  the humanities and the social sciences. Some distinguished scholars of recent          
  years have included Bruce Ackerman, Anatoli Dobrynin, John Lewis Gaddis,               
  Juan Williams, and Gordon Wood. Books written by Fellows at the Center have            
  included David Levering Lewis' W.W. Dubois, Biography of a Race, 1868-1919,            
  and Thomas Friedman's From Beirut to Jerusalem.                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  Annual reports, current Fellows' listing, and application forms are available.         
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Woodrow Wilson International Center for Scholars, One Woodrow Wilson                   
  Plaza, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20004. Contact:                    
  Scholar Selection and Services Office. Telephone: (202) 691-4000. E-mail:              
  fellowships@wilsoncenter.org.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.wilsoncenter.org .                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  Listed below are some of the 23 fellows chosen for the academic year 2006-             
  2007: 1) Adams, Gordon. Professor of the Practice of International Affairs,            
  Elliott School of International Affairs, George Washington University. "Buying         
  National Security: Transforming the U.S. Resource Planning Process"; 2)Bilgin,         
  Pinar. Assistant Professor of International Relations, Bilkent University,             
  Turkey. "Globalization and Security in the Developing World: The Case of               
  Turkey"; 3) Connelly, Matthew. Associate Professor of History, Columbia                
  University. "The Problem of Prevision"; 4)Dettke, Dieter. Executive Director,          
  Washington Office, Friedrich Ebert Foundation. "In Search of Normalcy:                 
  Germany's Defense and Security Policy Between Realpolitik and the Civilian             
  Power Paradigm."                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  1) The significance of the proposed research (the importance and originality of        
  the project); 2) the quality of the proposal in definition, organization, clarity, and 
  scope; 3) the capabilities and achievements of the applicant (the likelihood that      
  the applicant will accomplish the proposed project); 4) the relevance of the           
  project to contemporary policy issues. The Center devotes special attention to         
  the exploration of three prominent themes: governance; the U.S. role in the            
  world and issues of partnership and leadership; key long-term future challenges        
  confronting the United States and the world. Projects should involve fresh,            
  critical research, both in terms of the overall field and of the author's previously   
  published work. The Center welcomes projects that transcend narrow specialties         
  and do not represent essentially technical, methodological issues of interest only     
  within a specific academic discipline. Above all, projects should have relevance       
  to the world of public policy, and fellows should want, and be prepared, to            
  interact with policymakers in Washington and with Wilson Center staff who are          
  working on similar issues.                                                             
                                                                                         
85.400 MORRIS K. UDALL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM                                               
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  THE MORRIS K. UDALL SCHOLARSHIP AND EXCELLENCE IN

                                                                                         
  NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY FOUNDATION

                                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                         
  Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental and

                                                                                         
  Native American Public Policy Act of 1992, Public Law 102-259, 106 Stat. 78,

                                                                                         
  20 U.S.C. 5601-5609.

                                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                         
  To honor former Arizona Congressman Morris K. Udall through the operation of

                                                                                         
  internship, scholarship, and fellowship programs, financed by a permanent trust

                                                                                         
  fund endowment, to develop increased opportunities for young Americans to

                                                                                         
  prepare for and pursue careers related to the environment and to Native                
  Americans and Alaska Natives who intend to pursue careers in health care and           
  tribal public policy. Assistance is intended for the use of scholars only.             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Assistance is intended for the use of scholars only.                                   
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                         
  (1) College sophomores or juniors in the current academic year having

                                                                                         
  outstanding potential and intending to pursue careers in the environment; and

                                                                                         
  (2) Native American and Alaska Native students who are college sophomores or

                                                                                         
  juniors in the current academic year and have outstanding potential and intend         
  to pursue careers in health care or tribal public policy may apply. Students must      
  be properly nominated by accredited colleges or universities recognized by the         
  Department of Education.                                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  U.S. citizens or nationals, college sophomores, or juniors will benefit.               
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                         
  Applicants must be a matriculated sophomore or junior pursuing a degree at an

                                                                                         


1198                                                                               11-08

  accredited institution of higher education at the time of nomination.
  "Sophomore" is defined as a student planning two more years of full-time
  undergraduate study beginning the next academic year. Students in two-year
  colleges planning to transfer to a baccalaureate program at another institution
  may be nominated. "Junior" is defined as a student who plans one more year of
  full-time under-graduate study beginning the next academic year. Student must
  have a college grade-point average of at least "B" (or the equivalent). Students
  must be a United States citizen or a permanent resident alien.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Each August, the presidents of two and four year institutions are invited to
  appoint a Udall Scholarship faculty representative to manage the selection and
  nomination of up to six students for the forthcoming year's Udall Scholarships.
  The standard nomination forms with instructions will be provided to the
  designated faculty representatives of all such institutions whose presidents or
  chancellors inform the Foundation of their intent to participate. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The faculty representative of an institution is the key person in the Udall
  Scholarship selection process and serves as liaison between his/her institution
  and the Foundation. The faculty representative is responsible for publicizing the
  Udall Scholarships on campus, soliciting recommendations of students with
  significant commitment to the environment and outstanding Native American
  and Alaska Native students that demonstrate a commitment to pursue a career
  related to health care or tribal public policy from members of the faculty;
  establishing the process to select the best qualified candidates to be nominated;
  helping nominees prepare for the competition; and ensuring that the institutions
  nominations are complete and are forwarded to the Udall Scholarship Review
  Committee by the stated deadline. The following information on the official
  nominating materials, must be included with each scholarship nomination: (1)
  Institutional Nomination Form that verifies the nominee's eligibility and
  formally transmits the nomination to the Review Committee. This document
  must be completed and signed by the faculty representative or the nomination
  cannot be considered; (2) Nominee Information Form that affirms the nominee's
  wish to be considered for the scholarship; provides biographical information
  about the nominee's background, interests and plans, and provides a statement
  about the nominee's intent to enter an eligible career and specifies how the
  student's educational plans will provide preparation for that career; (3) nominee's
  essay of 800 words or less analyzing a speech or piece of legislation of
  Congressman Udall's and how it relates to the nominee's interests and career
  goals; (4) three Independent Evaluation of Nominee forms. The nominee must
  secure letters of recommendation from a current or recent faculty member that
  can discuss the nominee's potential for a career in the environment, health care,
  or tribal public policy; a current or recent faculty member in the nominee's field
  of study; and another individual that can attest to the nominee's potential; and
  (5) transcript of the nominee's college grades.
Award Procedure:
  The Morris K. Udall Foundation will select individuals from the academic and
  professional community to serve as the Udall Review Committee. The Morris
  K. Udall Foundation staff will initially verify the contents of the nomination
  packets for completeness and then assemble the information for review by the
  Committee, that will meet at a designated location for one weekend to review
  and select 80 scholars and 50 honorable mention recipients. Students will be
  evaluated on the basis of: (a) Outstanding leadership capabilities, (b) academic
  excellence, (c) the appropriateness of student's plan of study to prepare for a
  career in the environment, health care, or tribal public policy, and (d) dedication
  to the values exemplified by Morris K. Udall during his career, i.e., civility,
  integrity, and consensus. The Review Committee has sole discretion in the
  selection of the 80 scholars.
Deadlines:
  March 4 of each year for all nominations to be received.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  March 4, of each year for receipt of nominations; March of each year for
  selection of scholars by Udall Review Committee; April of each year for
  announcement of Udall scholars.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Sophomore recipients of Morris K. Udall Scholarships may apply for another
  scholarship by going through the application process described above.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  To be eligible to receive payments, a Udall scholar must matriculate full-time
  and remain in good academic standing. Scholar's institution must confirm in
  writing the cost of attendance and that the Scholar is enrolled full-time and in
  good academic standing. The Foundation will send each institution a form
  containing the student's name and social security number. This form will be
  completed and returned to the Foundation at least 30 days prior to the beginning
  of the fall semester. The Foundation will review forms for completeness of
  information and appropriate signatures from school officials. Scholars are
