EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
85.402 MORRIS K. UDALL NATIVE AMERICAN                                                 
                                                                                       
CONGRESSIONAL INTERNSHIP PROGRAM                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  THE MORRIS K. UDALL SCHOLARSHIP AND EXCELLENCE IN                                    
  NATIONAL ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY FOUNDATION                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Morris K. Udall Scholarship and Excellence in National Environmental and             
  Native American Public Policy Act of 1992, Public Law 102-259, 106 Stat. 78,         
  20 U.S.C. 5601.                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To honor former Arizona Congressman Morris K. Udall through the operation of         
  internship, scholarship and fellowship programs, financed by a permanent trust       
  fund endowment, to develop increased opportunities for young Americans to            
                                                                                       
  prepare for and pursue careers related to the environment and to Native

                                                                                       
  Americans and Alaska Natives who intend to pursue careers in health care and

  tribal public policy.                                                                
                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                       
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                       
  Assistance is intended for the use of interns only. Interns will be provided with

  airfare to and from Washington, DC; lodging in central DC; per diem to cover         
                                                                                       
  meals, transportation and incidentals. A $1,200 stipend at the conclusion of the

                                                                                       
  internship is given.

                                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  Applicants must be a member of a recognized tribe or an Alaskan native; be a

                                                                                       
  matriculated junior, senior, graduate student or law student in a college or

                                                                                       
  university; have a minimum 3.2 GPA; and have an interest in tribal government

                                                                                       
  and policy.                                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  U.S. citizens, U.S. permanent residents, Alaska Natives, and enrolled members        
  of a recognized tribe will benefit.

Credentials/Documentation:

  Applicants must be a matriculated junior, senior, law student or graduate student    
  pursuing a degree or graduating from an accredited institution of higher             
  education at the time of nomination.

                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  In September, the Udall Foundation will distribute the program

                                                                                       
  announcement/application to announce the Native American Congressional

                                                                                       
  Internship Program. The program announcement will include a telephone

                                                                                       
  number, website and mailing address for students to request an application. A

                                                                                       
  mailing will be sent to approximately 1,500 individuals as follows: (1) Deans

                                                                                       
  and Directors of U.S. Graduate Schools; (2) Deans of U.S. Law Schools; (3)

                                                                                       
  Directors of Native American Studies Departments at U.S. Institutions; (4)           
  Tribal Councils; and (5) Native American Organizations and Associations. This        
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                  
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applicants must include a completed Internship Application Form, an 800 word

                                                                                       
  essay analyzing a piece of legislation sponsored by Congressman Udall that           
  relates to the applicant's interests and career goals, and provide three references, 
  one from a leader in his/her tribe, one from a faculty member in the applicant's     
  field of study, and another individual that can attest to the applicant's potential, 
  and a resume. The application packet must be returned by January 31.                 
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The Morris K. Udall Foundation will select four or five Native Americans from        
  the academic and professional community to serve as the Udall Review                 
  Committee. The Udall Foundation will initially verify the contents of the            
  applications packets for completeness and then assemble the information for          
  review by the committee. Applicants will be evaluated on the basis of: (1)           
  Outstanding leadership capabilities, (2) academic excellence, (3) commitment to      
  a career in tribal public policy, and (4) dedication to the values exemplified by    
  Morris K. Udall during his career, i.e., civility, integrity and consensus. The      
  Review Committee has sole discretion in the selection of the interns.                
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Nominations must be received by January 31 of each year.                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  January 31 of each year for receipt of applications; February of each year for       
  selection of interns by Udall Review Committee; and April of each year for           
  announcement of Udall interns.                                                       
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.

                                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
1200                                                                             11-08

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Native American interns will be provided with airline tickets and an advance of
  funds prior to their arrival in Washington. Interns will receive a check every
  other week for living expenses. Airline tickets and lodging will be prepaid by
  the Udall Foundation. A $1,200 stipend will be presented to each intern at the
  end of the internship program.
Reports:
  Not required.
Audits:
  Not required.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  95-0900-0-1-502.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $170,000, and FY 08 est $170,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $3,160 to $3,685.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  One hundred thirty-eight (10-week) internships have been completed in various
  Congressional offices and the White House as of fiscal year 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Informational bulletins are available upon request.
Regional or Local Office:
  130 S. Scott Avenue, Tucson, AZ 85701. Contact: Colin Ben, Program
  Manager, Telephone: (520) 901-8568. FAX (520) 670-5530.
Headquarters Office:
  130 S. Scott Avenue, Tucson, AZ 85701. Contact: Colin Ben, Program
  Manager, Telephone: (520) 901-8568. FAX (520) 670-5530.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.udall.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
85.500 JAMES MADISON MEMORIAL FELLOWSHIP
PROGRAM
   (James Madison Foundation)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  JAMES MADISON MEMORIAL FELLOWSHIP FOUNDATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  James Madison Memorial Fellowship Act, Public Law 99-591, 100 Stat. 3341-
  76, 20 U.S.C. 4501-4517.
OBJECTIVES:
  To strengthen secondary school teaching of the principles, framing, and
  development of the U.S. Constitution; to contribute to a deeper understanding of
  American government and to foster in both teachers and students the spirit of
  civic participation that inspired the Nation's founders.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Fellowships).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  For future and current secondary school teachers of American history, American
  government, or social studies of grades seven through twelve.
Applicant Eligibility:
  College seniors and college graduates without teaching experience (Junior
  Fellow) and experienced secondary school teachers of grades seven through
  twelve (Senior Fellows) may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  U.S. Citizens or U.S. Nationals will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A Senior Fellow must be a full-time teacher of American history, American
  government, or social studies in grades seven through twelve and be under
  contract or prospective contract to teach full time as a secondary school teacher
  of the same subjects. A Junior Fellow must possess a bachelor's degree or plan
  to receive a bachelor's degree no later than August 31 of the year in which he or
  she is applying. An applicant must have a demonstrated record of commitment
  to civic responsibilities and to professional and collegial activities; qualify for
  admission with graduate standing at an accredited university that offers a
  qualifying Master's degree program (a Master of Arts in history or political
  science, a Master of Arts in teaching, in history, or in social studies, a related
  Master's degree in education that permits a concentration in history, government,
  social studies or political science) which allows at least twelve semester hours or
  their equivalent of study of the origins, principles, and development of the U.S.
  Constitution and its comparison with the histories of other forms of government
  (six of these required twelve semester hours of constitutional study may be
  earned at the Foundation's required four-week Summer Institute on the
