  Constitution); and be committed to teaching American history, American              
  government, or social studies full time in grades seven through twelve after the    
  receipt of a Master's degree for a period of not less than one year for each full   
  academic year of study for which assistance is received under a fellowship,         
  preferably in the State of the Fellow's legal residence at the time of the          
  fellowship award.                                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Application materials may be requested by individuals who meet the eligibility      
  requirements stated above. Completed applications must be received by March         
  1. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                         
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Individuals wishing to apply for fellowships must request application materials     
  from the Foundation. Applications must include: (a) Supporting information          
  which affirms an applicant's wish to be considered for a fellowship; information    
  about the applicant's background, interests, goals, academic record, and an         
  explanation of the applicant's educational plans and how those plans will lead to   
  or enhance a career as a teacher; (b) an essay of up to 600 words that explains     
  the importance of study of the Constitution: 1) To young students; 2) to the        
  applicant's career aspirations and his or her contribution to public service; and 3)
  to citizenship generally in a constitutional republic; (c) the applicant's proposed 
  course of graduate study including the specific degree sought and the courses to    
  be taken that leads to a Master's degree; and (d) three evaluations that attest to  
  the applicant's academic achievements and intellectual strengths and to his or      
  her potential or proven ability as a secondary school teacher.                      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  An independent Fellow Selection Committee will evaluate all valid applications      
  and recommend the most outstanding applicant or applicants from each State for      
  James Madison Fellowships. Applicants compete only against other applicants         
  from the State of their legal residence. Applicants are evaluated on their: (a)     
  Demonstrated commitment to a career in teaching American history, American          
  government, or social studies at the secondary level; (b) demonstrated intent to    
  pursue a program of graduate study that emphasizes the Constitution and offers      
  classroom instruction in that subject; (c) demonstrated devotion to civic           
  responsibility: (d) demonstrated capacity for graduate study, as well as proven     
  potential performance as classroom teachers (for Junior Fellowship applicants)      
  or proven outstanding performance as classroom teachers (for Senior Fellowship      
  applicants); and (e) proposed courses of graduate study, especially the nature      
  and extent of their subject content components and their relationship to the        
  enhancement of the applicants' teaching and professional activity. In this regard,  
  a content degree such as one in history or political science may enhance an         
                                                                                      
  application versus a MED or a MAT. Candidates recommended for fellowships

                                                                                      
  by the Fellow Selection Committee will be named James Madison Fellows. The

                                                                                      
  selection procedure will ensure that at least one James Madison Fellow (junior or

                                                                                      
  senior) is selected from each State in which there are at least two resident

                                                                                      
  applicants who meet the minimum criteria of eligibility and are judged to merit

                                                                                      
  an award.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:

                                                                                      
  February 15, each year for request of application materials; March 1, each year

                                                                                      
  for receipt of applications for the James Madison Fellowship competition.           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  April, each year the Fellow Selection Committee meets to recommend to the           
  Foundation the appointment of Fellows; April, each year the James Madison

  Fellows are named by the James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation

  (applicants are notified of selection results); May, each year the names of new     
  James Madison Fellows are publicly announced.                                       
Appeals:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Renewals:

                                                                                      
  Top contenders and applicants who were not awarded a fellowship are

                                                                                      
  encouraged to submit a fresh application for the current year's competition. Top

                                                                                      
  contenders may elect to sign a Resubmission Agreement authorizing their

                                                                                      
  original application to be placed before the current year's Fellow Selection

                                                                                      
  Committee for consideration for a fellowship award. A Fellowship Application

                                                                                      
  Update Form is also provided if an applicant chooses to include such

                                                                                      
  information.

                                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                      
  It is the intent of the Foundation to renew Junior Fellowships annually for a

                                                                                      
  period not to exceed 2 calendar years and to renew Senior Fellowships annually

                                                                                      
  for a period not to exceed five calendar years, or until a Fellow has completed

                                                                                      
  the minimum number of credits required for the Master's degree, whichever

                                                                                      
  comes first. Renewal will be in accordance with regulations established by the

                                                                                      
  Foundation, subject to an annual review and certification by authorized officials

                                                                                      
  of the university at which a Fellow is registered that the Fellow (if a Junior

                                                                                      
  Fellow) is not engaged in gainful employment that interferes with the Fellow's

                                                                                      
  studies and that the Fellow is making satisfactory progress toward the degree and

                                                                                      
  is in good academic standing. In some cases, Junior Fellows may be permitted

                                                                                      
  to study part-time and Senior Fellows to study full-time. The Foundation may

                                                                                      
  suspend or terminate a fellowship when it obtains evidence that a Fellow is not



                                                                                 11-08
  making satisfactory progress toward the degree or is not in compliance with
  fellowship requirements.
Reports:
  Each Fellow must complete the graduate degree study for which fellowship
  payments have been advanced and provide evidence of the receipt of a
  qualifying Master's degree within the amount of time indicated above. This
  study must included participation in an annual Summer Institute on the
  Constitution. After receiving the Master's degree, each Fellow must teach
  American history, American government, or social studies in grades seven
  through twelve for no less than 1 year for each full academic year of study under
  a fellowship. A Professional Teaching Obligation form is required for annual
  verification of professional status as a secondary level school teacher.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  95-8282-0-7-502.
Obligations:
  (Fellowships) FY 07 $1,091,000; FY 08 est $1,125,000; and FY 09 est
  $1,175,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Payments are made only for the actual costs of tuition, required fees, books,
  shared room, and board for the pursuit of qualifying degrees. The maximum
  amount of each award is $24,000, pro-rated over the period of study. In no case
  shall the award exceed $12,000 for one academic year of study. Normally,
  Fellows receive less than these maximum amounts. Payments are made only for
  the minimum number of credits required for the award of the degree for which a
  Fellow is registered and for no more.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since 1992, the year of the Madison Foundation's inaugural national
  competition, more than 800 Fellowship Awards have been made to prospective
  and existing secondary school teachers. There are currently 93 active Junior
  Fellows (prospective and Senior Fellows teachers) and 271 active Senior Fellows
  (existing teachers) from the fifteen classes of Fellows.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 2400.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  James Madison Memorial Fellowship Foundation. Contact: Mr. Steve Weiss,
  Director of Administration and Finance, 2000 K Street, NW., Suite 303,
  Washington, DC 20006. Telephone: (202) 653-8700. FAX (202) 653-6045. E-
  mail: sweiss@jamesmadison.com.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.jamesmadison.com.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
85.601 SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION FELLOWSHIP
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  SMITHSONIAN INSTITUTION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Smithsonian's Office of Fellowships, administered under the charter of the
  Institution, 20 U.S.C. Section 41 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  Fellowships are offered by the Smithsonian Institution to provide opportunities
  for graduate students, predoctoral students, and postdoctoral and senior
  investigators to conduct research in association with members of the
  Smithsonian professional research staff, and to utilize the resources of the
  Institution.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Fellowships).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Smithsonian Institution offers fellowships and internships for research and
  study in fields that are actively pursued by the museums and research
  organizations of the Institution. At present these fields are: Animal behavior,
  ecology, and environmental science, including an emphasis on the tropics;
  Anthropology, including archaeology; Astrophysics and astronomy; Earth
  sciences and paleobiology; Evolutionary and systematic biology; History of
  science and technology; History of art, especially American, contemporary
  African, and Asian art, twentieth-century American crafts, and decorative arts;
  Social and cultural history of the United States; Folklife.
Applicant Eligibility:
                                                                                1201
