  Postdoctoral Fellowships are offered to scholars who have held the degree or           
  equivalent for less than seven years. Senior Fellowships are offered to scholars       
  who have held the degree or equivalent for seven years or more. Applicants             
  must submit a detailed proposal including a justification for conducting research      
  in residence at the Institution. Predoctoral Fellowships are offered to doctoral       
  candidates who have completed preliminary course work and examinations. The            
  applicant must submit a detailed proposal including a justification for                
  conducting the research in-residence at the Institution. Graduate Student              
  Fellowships are offered to students formally enrolled in a graduate program of         
  study, who have completed at least one semester, and not yet have been                 
  advanced to candidacy if in a Ph.D. Program. Graduate students or postdoctoral         
  researcher conducting research in the fields pursued by the Smithsonian, from          
  any country, are welcome to apply.                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Citizens from all countries will benefit.

Credentials/Documentation:

  Transcripts (or other materials when transcripts are not issued) from all

  appropriate institutions are required, except for senior fellowship applications.

  Applicants for graduate student fellowships must submit undergraduate and

  graduate transcripts. Applicants for predoctoral and postdoctoral fellowships

  need only submit graduate transcripts. Unofficial photocopies are acceptable. If

  transcripts or other materials are not in English the applicant should provide

  translations.

Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:

  To obtain application materials please go to www.si.edu/research+study.

  Applicants must submit 6 complete copies including - completed cover sheets,

  research proposal, curriculum vitae, transcripts, and two letters of reference.

Award Procedure:

  Applications are evaluated and fellows are selected, by scholars in appropriate

  fields, on the basis of the proposal's merit, the applicant's ability to carry out the

  proposed research and study, the likelihood that the research could be completed

  in the requested time, and the extent to which the Smithsonian, through its

  research staff members and resources, could contribute to the proposed research.

  The number of appointments made each year is determined by the availability of

  funds for the program. The Smithsonian Fellowship Program does not

  discriminate on grounds of race, creed, sex, age, marital status, condition of

  handicap, or national origin of any applicant. For more information, lists of past

  recipients and/or applications go to www.si.edu/research+study.

Deadlines:

  January 15 postmark annually.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Notification after April 15th.

Appeals:

  None.

Renewals:

  None. However, applicants may reapply.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Financial support, in addition to a Smithsonian fellowship, for such purposes as

  research travel and equipment may be received from other sources provided that

  no special demands are made upon the fellow's time. Permission to receive

  additional stipend support must be requested in writing from the Office of

  Fellowships.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  10 week to one year.

Reports:

  Fellows will be required to submit a final report to the Office of Fellowships.

Audits:

  None.

Records:

  None.

Account Identification:

  33-0100-0-1-503.

Obligations:

  (Research Fellowships) FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09

  est not reported.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  Stipend levels range from $4,500 to $40,000.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  None.

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  To receive applications or more information contact: Office of Fellowships,

  Smithsonian Institution, www.si.edu/research+study siofg@si.edu,

  202.275.0655. For the mailing address, see below.

Regional or Local Office:

  None.

Headquarters Office:

  Office of Fellowships, Smithsonian Institution, Victor Building, Suite 9300,

  MRC 902, PO Box 37012, Washington DC 20013-7012.

Web Site Address:



1202                                                                               11-08

  www.si.edu/research+study
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Past recipients can be found at www.si.edu/research+study.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are evaluated and fellows are selected, by scholars in appropriate
  fields, on the basis of the proposal's merit, the applicant's ability to carry out the
  proposed research and study, the likelihood that the research could be completed
  in the requested time, and the extent to which the Smithsonian, through its
  research staff members and resources, could contribute to the proposed research.
  The number of appointments made each year is determined by the availability of
  funds for the program.
