                                     PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION

86.001 PENSION PLAN TERMINATION INSURANCE                                            
                                                                                     
   (ERISA)                                                                           
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  PENSION BENEFIT GUARANTY CORPORATION                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA), Title IV (Plan            
  Termination Insurance), Public Law 93-406, as amended; Public Law 96-364;          
  Multi-employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1980; Public Law 99-272;             
  Single-Employer Pension Plan Amendments Act of 1986; Pension Protection            
  Act of 1987, Public Law 100- 203; Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of             
  1989, Public Law 101-239; Retirement Protection Act of 1994, Public Law 103-       
  465; Job Creation and Worker Assistance Act of 2002; Pension Funding Equity        
  Act of 2004.                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To encourage the continuation and maintenance of voluntary private pension         
  plans for the benefit of their participants, to provide for the timely and         
  uninterrupted payment of pension benefits to participants and beneficiaries in     
  plans covered by the PBGC, and to maintain premiums charged by the PBGC at         
  the lowest level consistent with carrying out its obligations.                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Insurance.                                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Insurance coverage is mandatory for most private, defined benefit pension plans.

                                                                                     
   A single-employer plan may terminate in a standard termination only if it has     
  sufficient assets to provide all benefits, and in a voluntary distress termination

                                                                                     
  only if the employer sponsoring the plan can satisfy specified distress criteria.

                                                                                     
  Upon a voluntary distress termination or a termination initiated by the PBGC,      
  the PBGC guarantees payment of nonforfeitable benefits under the terms of the

                                                                                     
  plan within limits specified in the law. The guaranteed basic benefits payable to

                                                                                     
  a participant or beneficiary under a covered single-employer plan may not          
  exceed the actuarial value at the time of termination of a monthly benefit in the

                                                                                     
  form of a life annuity commencing at age 65 equal to the lesser of: (1) A $750

                                                                                     
  adjusted annually to reflect changes in the Social Security contribution and

                                                                                     
  benefit base since 1974, or (2) a participant's high consecutive five-year average

                                                                                     
  monthly gross income. When covered plans or amendments to them are less

                                                                                     
  than 5 years old at termination, benefits are guaranteed on a graduated basis.

                                                                                     
  Benefits of persons defined as "substantial owners" are guaranteed on a 30-year

                                                                                     
  graduated basis, subject to certain additional limits in the case of increased     
  benefits due to plan amendment. For multi-employer plans there is a program of

                                                                                     
  reorganization for plans with funding problems. The PBGC is required to

                                                                                     
  extend financial assistance to insolvent multi-employer plans in order that they   
  may be able to meet plan obligations for guaranteed benefits. Insurance coverage

                                                                                     
  is mandatory for any plan that is an employee pension plan benefit established or

                                                                                     
  maintained by: (1) An employer engaged in or affecting commerce; (2) an            
  employee organization engaged in or affecting commerce; or (3) both, if certain

                                                                                     
  requirements relating to the Internal Revenue Code are met. However, insurance

                                                                                     
  coverage does not extend to any plan that is: (1) an individual account plan; (2)  
  established and maintained for Federal, State or local government employees; (3)

                                                                                     
  a church plan, unless the plan has made an election under 26 U.S.C. 410(d) and

                                                                                     
  has notified PBGC of such election; (4) a plan that has not provided for

                                                                                     
  employer contributions after September 2, 1974; (5) unfunded and maintained

                                                                                     
  by an employer primarily to provide deferred compensation for a select group of

                                                                                     
  management or highly compensated employees; (6) established and maintained

                                                                                     
  outside of the U.S. primarily for the benefit of non-resident aliens; (7)

                                                                                     
  maintained by an employer solely for the purpose of providing benefits for         
  certain employees in excess of the limitations on contributions and benefits

                                                                                     
  imposed by the Internal Revenue Code; (8) established and maintained

                                                                                     
  exclusively for substantial owners; (9) that of an international organization that 
  is exempt from taxation; (10) maintained solely for the purpose of complying

                                                                                     
  with applicable workmen's compensation laws or unemployment compensation

                                                                                     
  or disability insurance laws; or (11) established and maintained by a professional 
  service employer that has not at any time since September 2, 1974, had more

                                                                                     
  than 25 active participants.

                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Private businesses and organizations that maintain defined benefit plans and

                                                                                     
  participants (and beneficiaries) in such plans.

                                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  All participants (and their beneficiaries) in covered single-employer pension

                                                                                     
  plans may be potentially eligible for plan termination insurance payments. All

                                                                                     
  covered multi-employer plans may be eligible for financial assistance needed to

                                                                                     
  ensure payment of guaranteed benefits.

                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                     
  In support of a termination notice, information relating to plan asset sufficiency

                                                                                     
  must be furnished by the plan administrator of a single-employer plan.

                                                                                     
  Information relating to financial operations of the employer must also be

                                                                                     


                                                                               11-08 
  furnished for a distress termination.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  As soon as practicable after complying with certain statutory notice
  requirements, a plan administrator who intends to terminate a covered single-
  employer plan must submit to the PBGC either a standard termination notice or
  a distress termination notice depending on the type of termination sought.
  Applications relating to a standard or distress termination should be sent to
  PBGC, Processing and Technical Assistance Branch, 1200 K Street, N.W., Suite
  930, Washington, DC 20005-4026. Applications for multi-employer plan
  matters should be made in accordance with applicable PBGC regulations and
  other published guidelines.
Award Procedure:
  The PBGC determines whether the assets of a covered single-employer plan that
  has notified the PBGC of its intent to terminate in a distress termination, or
  against which the PBGC has initiated termination proceedings, are sufficient to
  pay guaranteed benefits. If plan assets are found to be insufficient or the PBGC
  is unable to determine asset sufficiency, the PBGC will normally have itself
  named as trustee to administer the plan. The PBGC pays guaranteed benefits.
  The PBGC also pays other benefits funded by plan assets or recoveries from
  employers.
Deadlines:
  An annual premium must be paid for each covered plan generally no later than 9
  1/2 months into the plan year, e.g., annual premiums are due October 15th for
  calendar-year plans (Form 1 or Form 1-EZ). Plans with 500 or more participants
  (for the prior year) generally must also file an estimated premium with the
  PBGC (for the current year) by the last day of the second full calendar month
  following the close of the prior plan year (Form 1-ES). Premiums must be paid
  through the plan year in which all plan benefits are distributed in a standard
  termination or a trustee is appointed under ERISA Section 4042. For further
  information or copies of forms contact: PBGC, Collection and Compliance
  Division, Suite 670, 1200 K Street, NW., Washington, DC 20005-4026,
  Telephone (202) 326-4042 or 1-800-736-2444. Standard Termination: Notice of
  Intent to Terminate (NOIT). The plan administrator of a single-employer plan
  must issue a notice of intent to terminate the plan, by hand, mail, or electronic
  means reasonably calculated to ensure actual receipt, to each individual plan
  participant, beneficiary of a deceased participant, and union representing plan
  participants (but not to the PBGC) at least 60 days and no more than 90 days in
  advance of the proposed termination date. PBGC Notice: No later than 180 days
  after the proposed termination date the administrator must file with the PBGC a
  notice including, among other items, an enrolled actuary's certification that plan
  assets will be sufficient to provide all benefit liabilities as of the date of final
  distribution, with the underlying total asset and benefit values (Form 500).
  Notice of Plan Benefits: No later than the date the PBGC Notice is filed, the plan
  administrator must have provided information to each plan participant and
  beneficiary in plain language about his or her benefit, including the amount of
  that person's benefit, the form of benefit valued, and the factors (such as age,
  length of service, and actuarial assumptions) used in calculating the benefit.
  The plan administrator must also notify each plan participant and beneficiary of
  the identity of the insurer or insurers from whom the plan administrator intends
  to purchase annuities no later than 45 days before the date of distribution. Asset
  Distribution: The PBGC has 60 days after receipt of the PBGC Notice to
  determine whether the plan termination complies with the requirements for a
  standard termination. If the PBGC does not issue a Notice of Noncompliance
  and plan assets are sufficient to provide all benefit liabilities, the plan
  administrator may distribute the plan assets. The distribution must generally be
  completed within 180 days after the expiration of the 60-day review period and
  be done in accordance with plan provisions and PBGC regulations. If the plan
  administrator requests an IRS determination letter on or before the date of filing
  Form 500 with PBGC, the asset distribution deadline is extended to 120 days
  after the plan receives a favorable IRS determination letter. Within 30 days after
  final distribution of plan assets, the plan administrator must file with the PBGC
  a notice certifying that assets have been distributed as required (Form 501).
  However, PBGC will assess a penalty for a late filing only if it is filed more than
  90 days after assets have been distributed. A terminating plan that is unable to
  locate an individual after a diligent search must either purchase an annuity for
  the individual and send annuity provider information to the PBGC or send the
  PBGC funds to pay for the individual's benefit (Schedule MP). Distress
  Termination Notice Requirements: The notice requirements for a distress
  termination differ from those for a standard termination in several ways: the 60-
  day to 90- day advance NOIT must be provided to the PBGC as well as to plan
  participants and other affected parties; the PBGC Notice (Form 601) must
  include information to demonstrate
  thateachcontributionsponsor and each member of the sponsor's controlled group
  meet at least one of the distress tests (liquidation, reorganization, business
  continuation, or unreasonable pension costs due to a declining workforce) as of
                                                                                   1203
