Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State and local governments, U.S. territorial agencies, federally and State          
  recognized Indian tribes (see 44 U.S.C. 2504), educational and other nonprofit       
  institutions (e.g., universities, colleges, libraries, historical societies, museums,
  university presses, archives, etc.) and individuals.                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State and local governments, U.S. territorial agencies, federally and State          
  recognized Indian tribes, educational and other nonprofit institutions, and          
  individuals.                                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Go to www.grants.gov or www.archives.gov/grants to request information from          
  headquarters office. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular       
  No. A-110 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other nonprofit       
  institutions (36 CFR 1210). Applications from State and local governments are        
  subject to the provisions of the common rule for State and local grant               
  administration, "Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and                  
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments," dated (36 CFR

  1207). The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and         
  required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program.

                                                                                       
Award Procedure:

  Applications are reviewed by state historical records advisory boards, subject       
  area specialists and other appropriate individuals. Grant awards are                 
  recommended by the National Historical Publications and Records Commission           
  at biennial meetings. Grants are formally made by the Archivist of the United        
  States to the applicant institution or individual by letter.                         
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Available at www.grants.gov or www.archives.gov/grants or contact the                
  National Historical Publications and Records Commission headquarters office.         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 4 to 6 months.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  Applications may be revised and resubmitted in accordance with established           
  procedures.                                                                          
Renewals:                                                                              
  Procedures for the renewal of applications are the same as the original              
  application procedure process.                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Subject to consideration, depending on the project.                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Varies depending on scope of project.                                                
Reports:                                                                               
  Financial status reports and narrative progress reports are required for all grants. 
  Standard Form 269, Financial Status Report, shall be used for all financial          
  reports; which are due 30 days after the end of each 12-month period. Narrative      
  reports are due 30 days after the end of each 6-month period. Final reports are      
  due within 90 days after the expiration or termination of the grant period. Grants   
  with a duration of six months or less require a final report only.                   
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133, "Audits of States,          
  Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," non-Federal entities that          
  expend $500,000 or more in a year in Federal awards shall have a single or           
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Non-Federal entities that expend     
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are generally exempt from Federal        
  audit requirements for that year, but records must be available for review or        
  audit by appropriate officials of the Federal agency, pass-through entity, and       
  Government Accountability Office (GAO).                                              
Records:                                                                               
  The grantee institution maintains records which fully disclose the amount and        
  disposition of granted funds, the total cost of the undertaking, the portion of the  
  cost supplied by other sources, and such other records as will facilitate an         
  effective audit.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                                
  88-0301-0-1-804.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $5,706,000; FY 08 est $7,500,000; and FY 09 est not available.        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $5,000 to $750,000; $85,000.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In fiscal year 2007, 146 grant applications were reviewed and 88 grants were         
  awarded. In fiscal year 2008, it is estimated that 150 grant applications will be    
  reviewed and 100 grants will be awarded. In fiscal year 2009, it is estimated        
  that 0 grant applications will be reviewed and 0 grants will be awarded.             


                                                                                  11-08
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Grant application announcements. 36 CFR 1206-1212.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  National Archives and Records Administration, National Historical Publications
  and Records Commission, National Archives Building, Washington, DC 20408.
  Telephone: (202) 357- 5010 Fax (202) 357-5914. E-mail nhprc@nara.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.archives.gov/grants.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  45.149, Promotion of the Humanities_Division of Preservation and Access.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  1) Documentary editing projects to publish the papers of Thomas Jefferson,
  Ulysses S. Grant, Martin Luther King, Jr., and other figures important in United
  States history; 2) a project to conduct applied electronic records management
  research; 3) a project to develop a national database of historical records
  information in the Research Libraries Information Network (RLIN); 4) a project
  to put a museum's collection of photographic images on videodisc using direct-
  to-disc recording equipment and to hold a workshop for museum, library, and
  archives personnel to demonstrate the system; 5) a project to develop a county's
  archives and records management program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See program guidelines at www.archives.gov/grants.
89.005 COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS TO SUPPORT THE
PROGRAMS OF THE NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND
RECORDS ADMINISTRATION (NARA)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL ARCHIVES AND RECORDS ADMINISTRATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 108-383, 118 Stat. 2218; 44 U.S.C. 2119.
OBJECTIVES:
  To undertake a wide-range of activities for the public purpose of carrying out the
  programs of the National Archives and Records Administration.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Cooperative agreements are entered into to support various activities for the
  public purpose of carrying out the programs of the National Archives and
  Records Administration.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local governments, other public entities, educational institutions, or
  private nonprofit organizations (including foundations or institutes organized to
  support the National Archives and Records Administration or the Presidential
  archival depositories operated by it).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments, other public entities, educational institutions, or
  private nonprofit organizations (including foundations or institutes organized to
  support the National Archives and Records Administration or the Presidential
  archival depositories operated by it).
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is exempt from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submit proposal for a cooperative agreement to the Policy and Planning Staff,
  National Archives and Records Administration, 8601 Adelphi Road, Room
  4100, College Park, MD 20740; Telephone: (301) 837-1850.
Award Procedure:
  The Policy and Planning Staff review and consider all proposals consistent with
  the statutory authority and NARA policy. Proposals are then presented to the
  Senior Staff with a recommendation by the Policy and Planning Staff. The
  Archivist and the Senior Staff make the final decision with respect to all
  proposals.
Deadlines:
  Proposals are accepted on an on-going basis.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Proposals are typically reviewed and decided upon within a few weeks, although
  actual time frames may vary.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Procedures for renewals are the same as the original proposal process.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cooperative Agreements are entered into on an annual basis. The phasing of
  assistance depends upon the particular project.
                                                                                 1207
