                                                                 DENALI COMMISSION

90.100 DENALI COMMISSION PROGRAM                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  DENALI COMMISSION                                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  The Denali Commission Act, October 21, 1998, Publlic Law 105-227, 42 U.S.C.

                                                                                      
  3121.

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Denali Commission is an Innovative Federal and State partnership designed

                                                                                      
  to provide critical utilities and infrastructure throughout Alaska, particularly in

                                                                                      
  distressed communities.

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Infrastructure or utility needs benefiting Alaskans.

Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Awards are available to State and local governments, private, public, profit,

                                                                                      
  nonprofit organizations and institutions or individuals eligible in Alaska.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  General public, particularly distressed communities.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  Locally prepared comprehensive development plans that are regionally

                                                                                      
  supported.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  Informal preapplication conference recommended. This program is excluded

                                                                                      
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Letter request coupled with comprehensive community based and approved

                                                                                      
  development plans.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

  Resolutions through Commissioners.                                                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Six months from receipt of letter application.                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  Negotiated on a case by case basis.                                                 
Renewals:                                                                             
  Negotiated at periodic Commission meetings.                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Encouraged but not mandatory.                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Determined during project evaluation.                                               
Reports:                                                                              
  Monthly and/or quarterly, based on negotiated terms and conditions.                 
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  23, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organization,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than 500,000 a year in Federal awards    
  are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in        
  Circular No. A-133.                                                                 
Records:                                                                              
  Determined at the time of award, consistent with Federal and State of Alaska        
  guidelines.                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                               
  95-1200-0-1-452; 95-8056-0-7-452.                                                   
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $111,000,000; FY 08 est $106,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  From $200,000 to $10,000,000. Average: $5,000,000.                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Created a cost-sharing partnership to respond to the immediate and critical threat  
  to human health and the environment presented by non-code compliant, often          
  leaking, bulk fuel storage facilities.                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Information is available on the website of http://www.denali.gov.

                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:

  Denali Commission, 510 L Street, Suite 410, Anchorage, AK 99501.                    
  Telephone: (907) 271-1414.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.denali.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  (1) Bulk Fuel Tank Storage- Consolidation at isolated site to prevent               


                                                                                11-08 
  catastrophic failure of leaking facilities; (2) hydroelectric generation at remote
  coastal community; (3) regional electric intertie serving economically distressed
  communities not on national grid; (4) water supply to community owned and
  operated fish processing facility; and (5) statewide planning and construction of
  health care infrastructure.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Projects are judged based on consistency with locally developed and regionally
  supported infrastructure development plans, long term sustainability, relative
  impacts on reducing unemployment, raising the standards of living, reducing the
  cost of utilities, and cost-sharing by others.
90.200 DELTA REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT
  (Delta Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DELTA REGIONAL AUTHORITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Departments Of Labor, Health And Human Services, And Education, And
  Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, 2000) as amended by H.R. 2646;
  The Farm Security And Rural Investment Act of 2002 (2002 Farm Bill).
OBJECTIVES:
  The Delta Regional Authority (DRA) is a federal-state partnership serving a 240-
  county/parish area in an eight-state region. Led by a Federal Co-Chairman and
  the governors of each participating state, the DRA is designed to remedy severe
  and chronic economic distress by stimulating economic development and
  fostering partnerships that will have a positive impact on the region's economy.
  Help economically distressed communities to leverage other federal and state
  programs which are focused on basic infrastructure development, transportation
  improvements, business development, and job training services.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  In considering programs and projects to be provided assistance under the Act,
  and in establishing a priority of the requests for assistance provided by the
  Authority, the Authority shall follow procedures to ensure, to the maximum
  extent practicable, consideration of the following: (1) the relationship of the
  project or class of projects to overall regional development; (2) the per capita
  income and poverty and unemployment rates in an area; (3) the financial
  resources available to the applicants for assistance seeking to carry out the
  project, with emphasis on ensuring that projects are adequately financed to
  maximize the probability of successful economic development; (4) the
  importance of the project or class of projects in relation to other projects or
  classes of projects that may be in competition for the same funds; (5) the
  prospects that the project for which assistance is sought will improve, on a
  continuing rather than temporary basis, the opportunities for employment, the
  average level of income, or the economic development of the area served by the
  project; and (6) the extent to which the project design provides for detailed
  outcome measurements by which grant expenditures and the result of the
  expenditures may be evaluated. Each State is required to file a State Delta
  development plan, appraising prospects for development in its Delta area and
  relating to them a strategic program for which Delta funding is requested in that
  year. Once an application is submitted for individual projects and given final
  approval the grant is administered either by the Federal agency involved in that
  type of program, a local development district, or directly by DRA. The counties
  (including any political subdivision located within such area) in which
  investment under the Delta Act can be made are: Alabama, the counties of
  Barbour, Bullock, Butler, Choctaw, Clarke, Conecuh, Dallas, Escambia, Greene,
  Hale, Lowndes, Macon, Marengo, Monroe, Perry, Pickens, Russell, Sumter,
  Washington, Wilcox; in Arkansas the counties of Arkansas, Ashley, Baxter,
  Bradley, Calhoun, Chicot, Clay, Cleveland, Craighead, Crittenden, Cross,
  Dallas, Desha, Drew, Fulton, Grant, Greene, Independence, Izard, Jackson,
  Jefferson, Lawrence, Lee, Lincoln, Lonoke, Marion, Mississippi, Monroe,
  Ouachita, Phillips, Poinsett, Prairie, Pulaski, Randolph, Searcy, Sharp, St.
  Francis, Stone, Union, Van Buren, White, Woodruff; in Illinois the counties of
  Alexander, Franklin, Gallatin, Hamilton, Hardin, Jackson, Johnson, Massac,
  Perry, Pope, Pulaski, Randolph, Saline, Union, White, Williamson; in Kentucky
  the counties of Ballard, Caldwell, Calloway, Carlisle, Christian, Crittenden,
  Fulton, Graves, Henderson, Hickman, Hopkins, Livingston, Lyon, Marshall,
  McCracken, McLean, Muhlenberg, Todd, Trigg, Union, Webster; in Louisiana
  the counties of Acadia, Allen, Ascension, Assumption, Avoyelles, Caldwell,
  Catahoula, Concordia, East Baton Rouge, East Carroll, East Feliciana,
  Evangeline, Franklin, Grant, Iberia, Iberville, Jackson, Jefferson, La Salle,
  Lafourche, Lincoln, Livingston, Madison, Morehouse, Natchitoches, Orleans,
  Ouachita, Plaquemines, Pointe Coupee, Rapides, Richland, St. Bernard, St.
  Charles, St. Helena, St. James, St. John The Baptist, St. Landry, St. Martin,
  Tangipahoa, Tensas, Union, Washington, West Baton Rouge, West Carroll,
                                                                                  1209
