  West Feliciana, Winn; in Missouri the counties of Bollinger, Butler, Cape          
  Girardeau, Carter, Crawford, Dent, Douglas, Dunkin, Howell, Iron, Madison,         
  Mississippi, New Madrid, Oregon, Ozark, Pemiscot, Perry, Phelps, Reynolds,         
  Ripley, Scott, Shannon, St. Francois, Ste. Genevieve, Stoddard, Texas,             
  Washington, Wayne, Wright; in Mississippi the counties of Adams, Amite,            
  Attala, Benton, Bolivar, Carroll, Claiborne, Coahoma, Copiah, Covington, De        
  Soto, Franklin, Grenada, Hinds, Holmes, Humphreys, Issaquena, Jefferson,           
  Jefferson Davis, Lafayette, Lawrence, Leflore, Lincoln, Madison,Marion,            
  Marshall, Montgomery, Panola, Pike, Quitman, Rankin, Sharkey, Simpson,             
  Sunflower, Tallahatchie, Tate, Tippah, Tunica, Union, Walthall, Warren,            
  Washington, Wilkinson, Yalobusha, Yazoo; in Tennessee the counties of              
  Benton, Carroll, Chester, Crockett, Decatur, Dyer, Fayette, Gibson, Hardeman,      
  Hardin, Haywood, Henderson, Henry, Lake, Lauderdale, Madison, McNairy,             
  Obion, Shelby, Tipton, Weakley.

ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS:                                                            
                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  The Authority may approve grants to States and public and nonprofit entities.      
  All proposed projects must meet the clarification notes as part of the pre-        
  application and the requirements of the State Delta plan which must be approved    
  annually by the Authority.                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  General public.                                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
APPLICATION AND AWARD PROCESS:                                                       
                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Local Development Districts will publicize, educate and assist applicants with     
  the pre-application phase. (See individual Delta Program descriptions). This       
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                               
  Each State's Governor will select his projects for DRA yearly Federal Grant

                                                                                     
  funding from the Federal Co-Chairman's list of eligible pre-applications within

  the context of his own Authority-approved State plan and priorities. (See

                                                                                     
  individual Delta program descriptions).

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Upon receipt of project application approved and certified by the State DRA

                                                                                     
  determines that the project satifies all requirements for assistance under the ACT

                                                                                     
  and holds a Board vote for approval. The DRA notifies Congressional offices

                                                                                     
  and the office of the Governor of grant awards.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Per the approved current fiscal year grant program timeline.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  Per the approved current fiscal year grant program timeline.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

  There is an appeal process for the pre-application process. (See Delta direct      
  grant program description) There are no appeal procedures as such, project         
  review allows for full and free interchange with applicants selected for full      
  applications.                                                                      
                                                                                     
Renewals:

  Generally renewals are not applicable except for administrative expenses,          
  including technical services, of local development districts.                      
ASSISTANCE CONSIDERATIONS:                                                           
                                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Refer to 90.201.                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project assistance is provided until completion.                                   
POST ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS:                                                        
                                                                                     
Reports:                                                                             
  Reporting and performance as required by the Federal agency or DRA for those       
  programs directly administered by the Authority, as appropriate. The Authority     
  requires semi-annual reports of local development districts.                       
Audits:                                                                              
  Audits as required by the Federal agency and the Authority. In accordance with     
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of       
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities       
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have   
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities  
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal    
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.           
Records:                                                                             
  Records as required by the basic Federal agency. Under the total audit concept,    
  audits will be made on an organizational-wide basis (rather than grant-by-grant)   
  under GAO guidelines, Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations,           
  Programs, Activities and Functions, and for programs covered by A-102,             
  Attachment P.                                                                      
FINANCIAL INFORMATION:                                                               
                                                                                     


1210                                                                           11-08

Account Identification:
  95-0750-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  Reported under individual DRA programs.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not applicable.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Delta Regional Authority Code (limited distribution), The Communique an
  online journal devoted to the special problems and accomplishments of regional
  development. Annual Report.
INFORMATION CONTACTS:
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Inquiries and proposals for projects should be submitted first to The Local
  Development District. (See DRA website for listing.) Other inquiries may be
  addressed to: Executive Director, Delta Regional Authority, 236 Sharkey
  Avenue, Suite 400, Clarksdale, MS 38614.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dra.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  90.201, Delta Area Economic Development; 90.202, Delta Local Development
  District Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
90.201 DELTA AREA ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
   (Supplemental and Direct Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DELTA REGIONAL AUTHORITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Departments Of Labor, Health And Human Services, And Education, And
  Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001, as amended by H.R. 2646; The
  Farm Security And Rural Investment Act of 2002 (2002 Farm Bill).
OBJECTIVES:
  Delta Regional Authority's mission is to be an advocate for and partner with the
  people of the Delta to create opportunities for self-sustaining economic
  development and improved quality of life. This program focuses on activities
  which support DRA,s mission. Specific program goal are: (1) to develop the
  transportation infrastructure of the region for the purpose of facilitating
  economic development in the region (except that grants for this purpose may
  only be made to state and local government); (2) to assist the region in obtaining
  the job training, employment related education, and business development (with
  an emphasis of entrepreneurship) that are needed to build and maintain strong
  local economies; (3) to provide assistance to severely distressed and
  underdeveloped areas that lack financial resources for improving basic public
  services; (4) to provide assistance to severely distressed and underdeveloped
  areas that lack financial resources for equipping industrial parks and related
  facilities; and (5) to otherwise achieve the purpose of the Act. Grants are made
  either directly by the Authority or grants may supplement other Federal grants.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The grants may be used for providing supplemental funds under Federal grant-
  in-aid programs. To be eligible for special basic grants, projects must be of high
  priority in the State's Delta development plan and be within the clarification
  guidelines of the clarification notes which are part of the pre-application used to
  determine eligibility. The Authority must prioritize use of federal funds in the
  following order, with 75% of appropriated funds used in distressed counties and
  transportation and basic public infrastructure projects receiving at least 50% of
  the appropriated funds: (1) Basic public infrastructure in distressed counties and
  isolated areas of distress; (2) Transportation infrastructure for the purpose of
  facilitating economic development, (3) Business development with emphasis on
  entrepreneurship; (4) Job training or employment-related education, with
  emphasis on use of existing public educational institutions located in the region.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State, their subdivisions and instrumentalities and private nonprofit agencies.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The governor of each Delta state shall submit a State Delta Development Plan
  within 10 months after taking office, and must be approved by the board. Prior
  to December 15 of each year, the Governor of each state shall submit a Strategy
  Statement and Investment Program describing the state's program for achieving
