  the goals and objectives contained in its state Development Plan, and must be      
  approved by the board.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Local Development Districts will be the front-line facilitators, within their      
  districts, to publicize, educate and provide technical assistance for the DRA      
  yearly Federal Grant Program's pre-application process. Specifically, each LDD     
  will begin publicizing the DRA Federal Grant Program through their hosting of      
  public-information forums plus all other means appropriate to their respective     
  client bases. Each LDD will be the principal contact for the provision of          
  technical and pre-application assistance to the pre-applicants in its area         
  throughout this period, from announcement to pre-application deadline. The         
  LDD's receive and review pre-applications for completeness, then forward the       
  pre-applications to DRA at pre-application deadline. This program is excluded      
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                    
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Upon completion of his eligibility determinations, the Federal Co-Chairman will    
  forward that list to each participating state member, and he will also notify the  
  pre-applicants and the Administering Agencies. With the singular independence      
  as prescribed by the Delta Regional Authority Act of 2000, as amended, each        
  Governor will select his projects for funding, and will do so within the context of
  his own Authority-approved state plan and priorities. When the Governors have      
  selected their projects, these selections basically become pre-certified for DRA   
  funding, needing now an application (business plan) sufficient to satisfy the      
  Authority and the (if needed) Administering Agency that the project will work as   
  described and be able to comply with all appropriate Federal regulations. Using    
  the DRA Federal Grant Uniform Grant Application Form, which will include the       
  Administering Agency's required checklists and documents; the Federal Co-          
  Chairman will invite a full application from each participating states lists of    
  eligible and pre-certified projects. Upon receiving each application for their     
  state, each participating Governor shall evaluate and certify each application     
  conforming to the State Strategy Statement and Investment Program. The             
  Governors will then forward their lists of evaluated and certified applications to 
  the Federal Co-Chairman. Each application will be voted on and approved by         
  the participating state members and the Federal Co-Chairman, together, the         
  Delta Regional Authority.

Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Once projects are approved, the administration of each project will proceed in     
  accordance with the Memorandum of Agreement between DRA and the

  appropriate Administering Agencies. The DRA notifies Congressional Offices         
  and the Office of the Governor of grant awards.

Deadlines:                                                                           
  A timeline is posted on the DRA web site for each fiscal grant cycle covering      
  pre-application to grant awards.                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 60 to 80 days after receipt of the full application by the Authority.         
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Generally grants are limited to 50% of project costs. For projects in counties     
  designated as economically distressed, this limit can be raised to 90%.            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Assistance is provided until project completion; funds are transferred to the      
  basic Federal agency and disbursed as appropriate. DRA reserves the right to       
  withdraw grants for projects not under contract within 18 months of approval.      
Reports:                                                                             
  Reporting and performance monitoring as required by the DRA or the basic           
  Federal agency, as appropriate.                                                    
Audits:                                                                              
  Audits as required by the Federal agency and the Authority. In accordance with     
  the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996, Public Law 104-156. In accordance         
  with provisions on OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits         
  of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities    
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have   
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities  
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal    
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.           
Records:                                                                             
  Records as required by the basic Federal agency. Under the total audit concept,    
  audits will be made on an organizational-wide basis (rather than grant-by-grant)   
  under GAO guidelines, Standards for Audit of Governmental Organizations,           
  Programs, Activities and Functions, and for programs covered by A-102,             
  Attachment P.                                                                      
Account Identification:                                                              
  95-0750-0-1-452.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $8,015,805; FY 08 $7,789,000; and FY 09 est $8,000,000.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $25,000 to $200,000.                                                               


                                                                                11-08
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 49 projects were approved. Because of the reduced funding
  the States concentrated efforts on meeting economic development needs in the
  Region through committed projects. Targeted projects were for water and sewer
  systems for industrial parks, with committed tenants to locate, and
  municipalities facing impending sanctions; workforce training through schools
  of higher education to upgrade job skills with committed company participation;
  and business development through business incubator creation with committed
  tenants. Projected performance from applications indicates; that 3,622 families
  will be helped by water projects, 774 jobs will be created, 1079 jobs will be
  retained and 70 people will be trained.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Delta Regional Authority Code (limited distribution); Delta Regional
  Annual Report; The Communique an online journal devoted to the special
  problems and accomplishments of regional development.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Inquiries and proposals for projects should be submitted first to The Local
  Development District. (See DRA website for listing.) Other inquiries may be
  addressed to: Executive Director, Delta Regional Authority, 236 Sharkey
  Avenue, Suite 400, Clarksdale, MS 38614. Telephone: (662) 624-8600.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dra.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Targeted projects were for water and sewer systems for industrial parks, with
  committed tenants to locate, and municipalities facing impending sanctions;
  workforce training through schools of higher education to upgrade job skills
  with committed company participation; and business development through
  business incubator creation with committed tenants.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Only through the approved current grant year Timeline and Process.
90.202 DELTA LOCAL DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
ASSISTANCE
   (LDD)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DELTA REGIONAL AUTHORITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Conference Report On H.R. 4577, Departments Of Labor, Health And Human
  Services, And Education, And Related Agencies Appropriations Act, 2001;
  (House Of Representatives - December 15, 2000) as amended by H.R. 2646;
  The Farm Security And Rural Investment Act of 2002 (2002 Farm Bill).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide planning and development resources in multicounty areas; to help
  develop the technical competence essential to sound development assistance;
  and to meet the objectives stated under the program entitled Delta Regional
  Development (90.200).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  For administrative expenses, including technical services of certified local
  development districts; in addition to the uses and use restrictions detailed in the
  Delta Development Program (90.200). Funds may be used only in the
  performance of grantees program and in accord with the budget, and agreements
  thereto, as approved by the Authority.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Multicounty organizations certified by the State.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Multicounty organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Certificate by the Governor. State Delta Plan and Strategy Statement must
  describe the procedures for the participation of local development districts in the
  Delta development planning process. Costs will be determined in accordance
  with OMB Circular No. A-87, for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The State Alternate's Office is the coordinator for the Governor for Delta
  investments. The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency
  and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program
  beginning FY 2006. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be submitted and approved by the State Member of DRA. All
  proposed projects must meet the requirements of the State Delta Plan and
  Strategy Statement and Investment Program submitted annually before
  December 15. A letter of transmittal signed by the State Member and Standard
  Forms 424 are required.
                                                                                  1211
