  ceiling for individual awards is $35,000. Applications exceeding the $35,000      
  threshold will be considered non-responsive and will not be eligible for funding  
  under this announcement, unless the application represents a joint program. Pre-  
  award costs are not allowable charges to this program. Construction is not an     
  allowable activity or expenditure under this program. The purpose of this         
  program is to focus on election administration. Therefore, voter registration and 
  Get-Out-The-Vote (GOTV) efforts are not allowable activities under this           
  program.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  The following are eligible to apply for the Help America Vote College Program:    
  (1) State controlled institutions of higher education; (2) private institutions of
  higher education; (3) community colleges; (4) non-partisan student

  organizations; and (5) non-profit organizations, other than institutions of higher
  education (including faith-based, community-based, and tribal organizations).     
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  College and University Students, election officials.                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  The standard application form, Standard Form 424 must be used for this            
  program. Forms are available on the website,                                      
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/add/announce.htm. Other documents that are        
  requested: (1) Narrative Statement (must not exceed 20 pages); (2) Application    
  for Federal Assistance (SF 424, REV 4-92); (3) Budget Information--Non-           
  Construction Programs (SF 424A, REV 4-92); (4) Budget justification for           
  Section B-Budget Categories; (5) Assurances--Non-Construction Programs            
  (Standard Form 424B, REV 4-92); (6) Proof of non-profit status (if applicable);   
  (7) Certification Regarding Lobbying; and a letter from the applicant's local     
  election official certifying cooperation with organization. This program is       
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Applicants must submit applications electronically through Grants.gov. The        
  application for Federal Assistance, Standard Form 424, is to be submitted as      
  well. Specified instructions are published in the Federal Register, at            
  http://www.eac.gov, and at http://www.grants.gov.                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Written notification with follow-up issuance of funds.                            
Deadlines:                                                                          
  As specified in announcement or application instructions.                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  None.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Generally none. Awards are made until December 31, 2008. In limited instances,    
  the EAC may approve the extension of remaining funds (in furtherance of the       
  goals of the Program), in which case the funds may be used until June 30, 2009.   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  None.                                                                             
Reports:                                                                            
  Narrative Reports are due 30 days after the close of the grant period. Financial  
  reports are due 30 days after the close of the grant period. To obtain grant      
  funds, grantees will be required to submit SF 270, Request for Advance or         
  Reimbursement.                                                                    
Audits:                                                                             
  May be conducted in accordance with Federal audit provisions as well as the       
  appropriate OMB circulars (See Grant Proposals Application).                      
Records:                                                                            
  Records must be retained for at least 3 years; records shall be retained beyond

                                                                                    
  the 3-year period if all findings have not been resolved.

                                                                                    
Account Identification:                                                             
  95-1650-0-1-808.

                                                                                    
Obligations:

                                                                                    
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est $750,000; and FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $35,000 per project and budget period.                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In 2004, the Help America Vote College Pollworker Program provided                
  assistance to 15 colleges, universities and nonprofit groups to get students to   
  serve as pollworkers on election day. Because of the Program in 2004, the         
  Elections Director in Baltimore, Maryland said "For the first time, we do not     
  have a need for pollworkers in Baltimore, thanks the the College Program..."      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  The Help America Vote Act of 2002; Grant Administrative Requirements; OMB         
  Circulars A-21 and A-122; grant agreement.                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Juliana Milhofer or Edgardo Corte's Help America Vote College Program,            


                                                                               11-08
  Election Assistance Commission, 1225 New York Avenue, N.W., Suite 1100,
  Washington, DC 20005, HAVACollegeProgram@eac.gov, Telephone: (202)
  566-3100.
Web Site Address:
  www.eac.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  See 2004 and 2006 grantees at: http://www.eac.gov/coll_poll_grantee.asp.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Please see Request for Application.
90.401 HELP AMERICA VOTE ACT REQUIREMENTS
PAYMENTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION (EAC).
AUTHORIZATION:
  Help America Vote Act of 2002 (HAVA), Title II, Subtitle D, Part 1, Sections
  251-258, Public Law 107-252, 42 U.S.C. 15401-15408.
OBJECTIVES:
  HAVA Section 251 authorizes requirements payments to assist States (including
  the District of Columbia and U.S. Territories) in meeting the Uniform and
  Nondiscriminatory Election Technology and Administration Requirements in
  Title III of the Act (voting systems standards, provisional voting and voting
  information requirements, computerized statewide voter registration list
  requirements and requirements for voters who register by mail) and, under
  certain circumstances, for other activities to improve the administration of
  Federal elections.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  HAVA Section 251(b) provides that these funds are to be used only to meet the
  requirements of HAVA Title III, except that States may use the payments to
  carry out other activities to improve the administration of elections for Federal
  office if the State certifies to EAC that: (1) the State has implemented the
  requirements of Title III; or (2) the amount to be expended with respect to such
  other activities does not exceed an amount equal to the minimum requirements
  payment amount applicable to the State. Section 251(c) also explains that a
  State may use a requirements payment: (1) as a reimbursement for costs
  incurred in obtaining voting equipment which meets the requirements of section
  301 (voting systems standards) if the State obtains the equipment after the
  regularly scheduled general election for Federal office held in November 2000,
  not withstanding the Act's maintenance of effort requirements; and (2) for any
  costs for voting equipment which meets the requirements of section 301 that
  were incurred pursuant to a multi-year contract on or after January 1, 2001,
  except that the amount that the State is otherwise required to contribute under
  the maintenance of effort requirements must be increased by the amount of the
  payment made with respect to such multiyear contract. Funds are available until
  expended.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Section 253(d) provides that States may not file a statement of certification to
  receive a requirements payments until the expiration of a 45-day period (or, in
  the case of a fiscal year other than the first fiscal year for which a requirements
  payment is made to the State, a 30-day period) that begins on the date the EAC
  publishes the State plan in the Federal Register. State, or designee, in
  consultation with the chief State election official, to file with EAC a statement
  certifying that the State is in compliance with the conditions set forth in Section
  253(b). The State may meet this certification requirement by filing the
  following statement: hereby certifies that it is in compliance with the
  requirements referred to in To receive funds for a fiscal year, HAVA Section 253
  requires the chief executive officer of the State, or designee, in consultation with
  the chief State election official, to file with EAC a statement certifying that the
  State is in compliance with the conditions set forth in Section 253(b). For the
  purpose of this requirement, the chief State election official is the individual
  designated by the State under section 10 of the National Voter Registration Act
  of 1993 (42 U.S.C. 1973gg-8) to be responsible for coordination of the States
  responsibilities under such Act. Section 253(b) requires the State to: have filed
  with EAC a State plan covering the fiscal year that the State certifies: contained
  each of the elements required to be in the State plan, according to HAVA
  Section 254, including how the State will establish a State Election Fund in
  accordance with Section 254(b); was developed in accordance with Section 255,
  which describes the process of using a committee of appropriate individuals,
  including the chief election officials of the two most populous jurisdictions,
  other local election officials, stake holders (including representatives of groups
  of individuals with disabilities), and other citizens to develop the plan; and met
  the 30-day public notice and comment requirements of Section 256. have filed
  with the EAC a plan for the implementation of the uniform, non-discriminatory
  administrative complaint procedures required under Section 402 (or has
  included such a plan in the State plan), and have such procedures in place. If the
                                                                                   1213
