  State did not include such an implementation plan in the State plan, the Federal          
  Register publication and the committee development requirements of Sections               
  255(b) and 256 apply to the implementation plan in the same manner as they                
  apply to the State plan. be in compliance with each of the following federal laws:        
    The Voting Rights Act of 1965; The Voting Accessibility for the Elderly and             
  Handicapped Act; The Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act;                 
  The National Voter Registration Act of 1993; The Americans with Disabilities              
  Act of 1990; and The Rehabilitation Act of 1973. to the extent that any portion           
  of the requirements payment is used for activities other than meeting the                 
  requirements of title III, have provided that: the State's proposed uses of the           
  requirements payment are not inconsistent with the requirements of title III; and         
  the use of the funds under this paragraph is consistent with the requirements of          
  Section 251(b); have appropriated funds for carrying out the activities for which         
  the requirements payment is made in an amount equal to 5 percent of the total             
  amount to be spent for such activities (taking into account the requirements              
  payment and the amount spent by the State) and, in the case of a State that uses          
  a requirements payment as a reimbursement for voting equipment under Section              
  251(c)(2), an additional amount equal to the amount of such reimbursement.                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                    
  Fifty States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, and            
  the U.S. Virgin Islands.                                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                                  
  Qualifying jurisdictions must follow the procedures set forth in the Help                 
  America Vote Act, 42 U.S.C. 15401 et. seq., entitled Requirements Payments.               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                                
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                      
  HAVA Section 253 requires the chief executive officer of the section 253(b) of            
  the Help America Vote Act of 2002. (with the blank to be filled in with the name          
  of the State involved). In addition, the General Services Administration (GSA),           
  which disburses the Title II requirements payments to States on behalf of EAC,            
  requests that a representative from each State contact Sharon Pugh                        
  (Sharon.Pugh@GSA.gov) or Brad Farris (Brad.Farris@GSA.gov) on (816) 823-                  
  3108 to provide information on State contact points, including name, telephone            
  number, address and email address. GSA then contacts the State representatives            
  to obtain banking information required for an Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT).            
Award Procedure:                                                                            
  Based upon the certification statement filed by the State, EAC notifies GSA that          
  a State is due receipt of its Title II payment for a particular fiscal year (i.e., either 
  FY 2003 funds, FY 2004 funds, or both). GSA disburses the Title II funds for a            
  particular fiscal year to the account specified by the State, and notifies the State      
  and EAC of the disbursement in writing, specifying the amounts disbursed by               
  fiscal year. EAC provides separate notification to States specifying the amount           
  to be disbursed by GSA. All funds are disbursed via EFT.                                  
Deadlines:                                                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                           
Appeals:                                                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                           
Renewals:

  Not applicable.                                                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                          
  GSA, on the behalf of EAC, calculates the amount of funding that each State

  receives under the guidelines specified in HAVA Section 252 and provisions in             
  related Federal appropriations legislation. The sum of the funds allocated as a           
  result of these steps is equal to the total amount appropriated for the fiscal year,      
  less any federal rescission ($830 million in FY03; $1,489,360,620 in FY04; est.           
  $0 in FY05). Section 253(b)(5) requires the State to have appropriated funds for          
  carrying out the activities for which the requirements payment is made in an              
  amount equal to 5 percent of the total amount to be spent for such activities             
  (taking into account the requirements payment and the amount spent by the                 
  State) and, in the case of a State that uses a requirements payment as a                  
  reimbursement for voting equipment under Section 251(c)(2), an additional                 
  amount equal to the amount of such reimbursement.                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                           
Reports:                                                                                    
  HAVA Section 258 requires States receiving these funds to submit a report to              
  EAC on the activities conducted with the funds provided during the Federal                
  fiscal year, which runs from October 1 through September 30 of each year. This            
  report must include: (1) a list of expenditures made with respect to each category        
  of activities described for the use of funds; (2) the number and type of articles of      
  voting equipment obtained with the funds; and (3) an analysis and description of          
  the activities funded to meet HAVA requirements and how such activities                   
  conform to the submitted State plan. This report is due no later than six months          
  after the end of each fiscal year. States should submit Standard Form 269 as              
  part of this report. This form may be found at                                            
  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_forms.html.                                   
Audits:                                                                                     


1214                                                                                  11-08

  HAVA Title IX, Section 902, authorizes EAC to audit or examine books,
  documents, papers and records of any recipient that are deemed pertinent to the
  payment; stipulates that the provision applies to all recipients of payments under
  the Act; requires that all funds provided under the Act are subject to mandatory
  audit by the Comptroller General at least once during the lifetime of the
  program, with the same access to records as EAC; and requires that, if the
  Comptroller General determines that an excess payment has been made or the
  recipient is not in compliance, the recipient must pay the office that made the
  payment an amount that reflects the excess payment or the proportion
  representing noncompliance.
Records:
  HAVA Title IX, Section 902, requires recipients of payments under the Act to
  keep records consistent with sound accounting principles to facilitate an
  effective audit and stipulates that the provision applies to all recipients of
  payments under the Act.
Account Identification:
  95-1650-0-1-808.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est not reported; FY 08 est not reported; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not applicable.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Part 1 of Subtitle D of Title II (Sections 251-258) and Title III of Public Law
  107-252, the Help America Vote Act of 2002, Sections 301-305, and Sections
  902 and 906. EAC has determined that the following Office of Management
  and Budget guidelines apply: A-87 - Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian
  Tribal Governments (Cost Principles); A-102 - Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements with State and Local Governments (Administrative Requirements);
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements
  to State and Local Governments (Common Rule, Administrative Requirements,
  53 FR 8087, March 11, 1988); and A-133 Audits of States, Local Governments,
  and Non-Profit Organizations (Single Audits, Audit Requirements). These
  guidelines may be found at
  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/index.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Election Assistance Commission, 1225 New York Avenue, N.W., Suite 1100,
  Washington, DC 20005, Telephone: (1-866) 747-1471 (toll free) or (202) 566-
  3100.
Web Site Address:
  www.eac.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
90.402 HELP AMERICA VOTE MOCK ELECTION
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ELECTION ASSISTANCE COMMISSION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Appropriations Act for Fiscal Year (FY) 2008 (Public Law 110-161).
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote voter participation and education in American elections through a
  program of simulated Federal elections that permits participation by students
  enrolled in a secondary education program.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Primarily, funds must be used by eligible grantees to operate or supplement a
  program of simulated Federal elections at least 5 days before the actual general
  Federal election that permits participation by secondary education students.
  Additional supporting activities are also allowed as detailed in the Request for
  Application. Construction is not an allowable activity or expenditure. Indirect
  costs are not an allowable expenditure. Voter registration and Get-Out-The-Vote
  (GOTV) efforts are not allowable activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State election offices and non-profit organizations (including faith-based,
  community-based, and tribal organizations). Applicants must demonstrate prior
  experience operating a program of simulated elections aimed at students enrolled
  in a secondary education program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Students in secondary education programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
