  Liberty (RFE/RL): As of December 2007, RFE/RL broadcasts in 28 languages to

  Central, Eastern, and Southeastern Europe; Russia; the Caucasus; Central Asia;

  Iraq; Iran; and Afghanistan. Eighteen of RFE/RL's broadcast languages almost

  two-thirds of the total are directed to countries or regions where the majority

  populations are Muslim. Each week, RFE/RL broadcasts more than 1,000 hours

  of radio programming and four hours of television from its operations center in

  Prague and from its bureaus. During fiscal year 2007, RFE/RL's 19 Internet

  websites reached a monthly average of over 1.3 million unique visitors, logged

  nearly 1.7 million requests to listen to radio content online, and garnered an

  average of 20 million page views each month reflecting increases of 13 percent,

  18 percent, and 21 percent respectively over the previous year. RFE/RL's

  proximity to its broadcast regions facilitates production of relevant, locally-

  oriented programming in a cost-efficient manner. As of December 2007,

  RFE/RL programs were available on 261 local AM, FM, UKV, and TV affiliates

  across its broadcast region. RFE/RL is increasing delivery of its information

  products on television, the Internet, and other emerging media in order to attract

  new audiences and to reach closed and semi-closed societies. Radio Free Asia

  (RFA) broadcasts in nine languages and four dialects to China (including Tibet

  and the Xinjiang Region of Western China), Burma, Cambodia, Laos, North

  Korea, and Vietnam, providing unbiased news to Asian countries that do not

  tolerate a free press, and filling the news gap created by State-controlled media.

  Through its network of reporters across Asia and its eight bureaus/offices, RFA

  frequently leads the world in breaking news and continues to cover stories not

  reported by other media. Middle East Broadcasting Network (MBN) is a

  multimedia broadcasting organization that currently operates three 24/7 Arabic-

  language news and information television channels Alhurra, Alhurra-Iraq, and

  Alhurra Europe - as well as Radio Sawa, which broadcasts 24/7 on seven

  programming streams in the Middle East. MBN broadcasts from its

  headquarters in Springfield, Virginia, with a bureau in Baghdad, production

  capability in Dubai and Beirut, and correspondents in more than 25 countries in

  the Middle East and around the world. MBN reaches an estimated 35 million

  people each week and provides the United States a direct and undistorted line of

  communication with the Arabic- speaking population of the Middle East. In

  addition, news updates are broadcast twice anhour to provide regular news

  coverage 18 hours of the day. Alhurra-Iraq carries some programs aired on the

  regional Alhurrachannel, but concentrates on targeted news and current affairs

  programs for Iraqi viewers as they move into a new era and rebuild their country.

   Alhurra Europe provides the most popular news and information programs of

  Alhurra and Alhurra-Iraq. Radio Sawa broadcasts reliable and objective news

  via newscasts at 15 and 45 minutes past each hour, totaling over 325 live,

  updated newscasts per week on each of its seven broadcasting streams targeted

  to the sub-regions of the Middle East. Daily 30-minute news magazines provide

  listeners with in-depth reporting and news analysis. Radio Sawa can be heard

  throughout the Middle East through FM and medium wave (AM)

  transmissionson seven streams including: Iraq (FM and AM); Jordan and the

  West Bank(FM); the Gulf (FM and AM); Egypt and the Levant (AM); Morocco

  (FM); Sudan and Yemen (FM and AM); and Lebanon and Syria(FM). Listeners

  can also hear Radio Sawa live on the Internet by going to its website and

  clicking on any of the streams.

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  None.

Regional or Local Office:

  None.

Headquarters Office:

  Broadcasting Board of Governors, 330 Independence Ave S.W., Suite 3360,

  Washington DC 20237.

Web Site Address:

  www.bbg.gov.

RELATED PROGRAMS:

  None.

EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty, Radio Free Asia, and Middle East

  Broadcasting Networks are the only projects that have received grant funding.

  All three organizations conduct broadcasting operations in targeted geographic

  regions.

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  The BBG does not solicit or evaluate proposals from the public.









1216                                                                           11-08

