                                                  UNITED STATES INSTITUTE OF PEACE

91.001 UNSOLICITED GRANT PROGRAM                                                            
                                                                                            
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                             
  UNITED STATES INSTITUTE OF PEACE                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                              
  United States Institute of Peace Act; Department of Defense Authorization Act             
  of 1985, Title XVII, Public Law 98-525, 98 Stat. 2492, 2649, 22 U.S.C. 4601,              
  Section 1701.                                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                                 
  The Institute supports research, education, training and dialogue programs in the

                                                                                            
  United States and abroad on international peace and conflict resolution.

                                                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                        
  Project Grants.

                                                                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                            
  Funding is available for any project that falls within the Institute's broad

                                                                                            
  mandate of international conflict resolution. Unsolicited grants are offered

                                                                                            
  across a broad range of relevant disciplines, skills, and approaches. Topic areas

                                                                                            
  of interest to the Institute include, but are not restricted to, the origins of conflict,

                                                                                            
  the role played by religious, ethnic, economic, political, social, and

                                                                                            
  environmental factors in generating or accelerating conflict within, between, or          
  among states; international conflict management; diplomacy; negotiation theory;           
  Track Two (unofficial) diplomacy; methods of third-party dispute settlement;              
  international law; international organizations and collective security; deterrence        
  and balance of power; arms control; psychological theories about international            
  conflict; the role of nonviolence and nonviolent sanctions; moral and ethical             
  thought about conflict and conflict management; the role of peacekeeping,                 
  humanitarian intervention, and postconflict peace building; and theories about            
  relationships among political institutions, human rights, and conflict. Priority is       
  accorded to projects that have practical applications and that may be useful for          
  policymakers.                                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                      
  The Institute may provide grant support to nonprofit organizations, public                
  institutions, and individuals both U.S. and foreign including the following: civil        
  society organizations; institutions of secondary, postsecondary, and community            
  education; public and private education, training, or research institutions;              
  libraries; and public departments and agencies (including U.S. state and                  
  territorial departments of education and commerce). Government officials,                 
  whether U.S. or foreign, are not eligible to receive Institute funds. Other U.S.          
  government employees should contact the Grant Program staff prior to                      
  submission of an application to determine their eligibility.                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                    
  Nonprofit organizations, official public institutions, and individuals. Grantees          
  may be U.S. citizens, nonprofit organizations and official public institutions, or        
  foreign nationals and foreign nonprofit institutions.                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                                  
  Resume/curriculum vitae.                                                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                                
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                      
  All applicants must submit their project on an official application form (last            
  revised February 2004, with accompanying documentation as described therein.              
Award Procedure:                                                                            
  Most grant proposals are vetted through a rigorous, multi-stage process of                
  review, which may include consideration by independent experts and                        
  professional staff at the Institute. Proposals are grouped by theme or regional           
  focus and sent to relevant external experts for their evaluation. The final               
  authority for decisions about grants rests with the Board of Directors. Outside           
  review of an application may also be sought as part of the review process.                
Deadlines:                                                                                  
  The Unsolicited application deadline is October 1 (or the next business day if the        
  date falls on a weekend or a U.S. holiday). This is a receipt deadline not                
  postmark deadline.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                         
  Approximately 6 months.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                                    
  None.                                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                                   
  Grantee may submit an application for renewed funding after all requirements on

  the previous grant are fulfilled. Renewed funding request will be submitted to

  the Board of Directors for review. Grantees may request an extension of an                
  ongoing project by submitting a letter to the Director of the Grant Program.              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                          
  This program has no statutory requirements.                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                      
  Grants are typically one year in duration, however, short and long-undertakings           
  are also appropriate. Funds are released according to the schedule negotiated             
  between USIP and the grantee. All funds must be spent or obligated within the             
  established grant period.                                                                 


                                                                                      11-08 
Reports:
  Interim performance reports - narrative and financial - are submitted according
  to the schedule negotiated between USIP and the grantee. Final reports are due
  90 days after the end of the grant period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documentation, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the grant shall be retained by the grantee for 3 years
  following the submission of the final report of project expenditures.
Account Identification:
  95-1300-0-1-153.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $2,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The average award in the Unsolicited Grant Program is $38,000. The actual
  amount of any grant is based on the proposed budget and subsequent
  negotiations with successful applicants.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Unsolicited Grant Program has made more than 1150 awards. Grantees have
  produced more than 280 books, 360 articles, and 118 unpublished monographs
  and manuscripts. In addition, grantees have completed two simulations; 40 sets
  of curriculum material; one directory entitled Guide to Peace Research in
  Western Europe; and one conference report on Peace and Security in the Asia
  Pacific Region.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Federal Register No. 3155-01.
Regional or Local Office:
  Unsolicited Grant Program, United States Institute of Peace, 1200 17th Street
  NW., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20036-3006. Telephone: (202) 429-3842. E-
  mail: grants@usip.org.
Headquarters Office:
  United States Institute of Peace, 1200 17th Street NW., Suite 200, Washington,
  DC 20036-3006.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usip.org.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  1. A grant to fund research on armed non-state actors, attempts to disarm or
  demilitarize such actors, and the sequencing of such attempts in relation to
  political negotiations. Drawing upon lessons from cases in Southwest Africa and
  Northern Ireland and from the direct experience of project team members in
  those cases, the study will focus particular attention on the evolving experience
  with Hizballah in Lebanon. 2. A summer workshop, to promote cooperative
  security in South Asia through dialogue. It will focus on traditional security
  issues and will bring together young scholars and analysts from South Asia for a
  candid, sustained dialogue on sources of insecurity in the region. 3. A project in
  the Warri region of Nigeria's Niger Delta to address the need for reconciliation
  following violence among Ijaw, Itsekiri and Urhobo ethnic groups. 4. A project
  to promote reconciliation in Lebanon through the collection and discussion of
  documents and testimonies on the Lebanese civil war.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  In evaluating grant applications, central concerns will include: 1) the
  significance of the project to the Institute's mandate and the subject areas of
  special interest identified by the Institute; 2) evidence that the project will not
  simply duplicate existing knowledge or programs; 3) the likelihood that the
  project will make a significant contribution to the field in scholarship and
  knowledge; 4) the usefulness of the proposed product in fulfilling the Institute's
  mandate. The Institute is particularly interested in proposals that envision a
  specific product of enduring value.
91.002 SOLICITED GRANT PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  UNITED STATES INSTITUTE OF PEACE
AUTHORIZATION:
  United States Institute of Peace Act; Department of Defense Authorization Act
  of 1985, Title XVII, Public Law 98-525, 98 Stat. 2492, 2649, 22 U.S.C. 4601,
  Section 1701.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide support for education and training, research, and public information
                                                                                  1217
