  on international peace and conflict resolution and on themes and topics             
  identified by the institute.                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Starting in October 2006, the Grant program launches its new Solicited Grant        
  Initiative with the following elements: Funding for conflict prevention, conflict   
  management, and post-conflict peacebuilding in Colombia, Iraq, Nigeria,             
  Pakistan, and Sudan. Funding for projects relating to Iran. Priority will be given  
  to initiatives focusing on Iranian relations with the West and with its neighbors   
  in the region, and on Iran's role in regional and international affairs.            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  For, Colombia, Iraq, Nigeria, Pakistan and Sudan, preference will be given to       
  applications submitted by non-profit organizations based in those countries or to   
  groups that partner with them. For Iran and the countries above, applicantions      
  maybe submitted by nonprofit organizations, public institutions, and individuals.   
  Grantees may be U.S. citizens and U.S. nonprofit or public institution or foreign   
  nationals and foreign nonprofit institutions.                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Nonprofit organizations, public institutions, and individuals. Grantees may be      
  U.S. citizens, nonprofit organizations and public institutions, or foreign          
  nationals and foreign nonprofit institutions.                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Resume/curriculum vitae.                                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  All applicants must submit their project on an official application form (last      
  revised February 2004), with accompanying documentation as described therein.       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Proposals submitted to the Solicited Grant Initiative will first be discussed with, 
  and reviewed by, Grant program staff. In the event of a successful review,          
  applications will be forwarded for further review to experts outside of USIP.       
  During the review process, staff may contact applicants to request further          
  information. Final approval of funded projects will be contingent upon further      
  review and approval by USIP's executive officers and Board of Directors. For        
  previous grantees, evaluations of their earlier grants will be conducted before     
  final decisions will be made.                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                            
  The countries listed under no. 70 are expected to be the focus of this solicited    
  initiative for at least one year from October 1, 2006. Applicants may apply at      
  any time throughout the year. Awards will be announced throughout the year.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Approximately 6 months.

Appeals:

  None.

Renewals:

  Grantees may submit an application for renewed funding after all requirements

  on the previous grant are fulfilled. Renewed funding requests will be submitted

  to the Board of Directors for review. Grantees may request an extension of an

  ongoing project by submitting a letter to the Director of the Grant Program.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no statutory requirements.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Grants are typically one year in duration, however, short and long-term

  undertakings are also appropriate. Funds are released according to the schedule

  negotiated between USIP and the grantee. All funds must be spent or obligated

  within the established grant period.

Reports:

  Interim financial and performance reports are submitted according to the

  schedule negotiated between USIP and the grantee. Final financial and

  performance reports are due 90 days after the end of the grant period.

Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June

  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit

  Organizations," non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000

  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit

  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a

  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,

  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.

Records:

  Financial records, supporting documentation, statistical records, and all other

  records pertinent to the grant shall be retained by the grantee for 3 years

  following the submission of the final report of project expenditures.

Account Identification:

  95-1300-0-1-153.

Obligations:

  FY 07 $2,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  The average award in the Solicited Grant Program is $40,000, although



1218                                                                            11-08

  somewhat larger grants are also awarded. The actual amount of any grant is
  based on the proposed budget and subsequent negotiations with successful
  applicants.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Solicited Grant Program has made more than 424 awards. Grantees have
  produced more than 79 books, 174 articles and 114 unpublished monographs
  and manuscripts.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Federal Register No. 3155-01.
Regional or Local Office:
  Solicited Grant Program, United States Institute of Peace, 1200 17th Street,
  NW., Suite 200, Washington, DC 20036-3006. Telephone: (202) 429-3842. E-
  mail: grants@usip.org.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Public Affairs, United States Institute of Peace, 1200 17th Street, NW.,
  Suite 200, Washington, DC 20036-3006.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usip.org.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  1. A grant to gain a comprehensive understanding of the growing tensions
  between the majority Muslim and minority Christian communities in Mangochi
  District in southern Malawi. 2. A grant to examine and evaluate the outreach and
  legacy programs of the Special Court for Sierra Leone. 3. A project to build
  conflict resolution capacity at the grassroots level and to create awareness among
  people of their rights and responsibilities under the new political order in Sudan.
  4. A project to promote understanding of the new constitution in Liberia. The
  project will produce two publications: an annotated compilation of the records of
  the proceedings that gave rise to the Liberian constitution and an analytical
  commentary on the constitution's meaning for use by lawyers, judges, law
  professors and government officials.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  In evaluating grant applications, central concerns will include: 1) the
  significance of the project to the subject areas of special interest of the
  solicitation; 2) evidence that the project will not simply duplicate existing
  knowledge or programs; 3) the likelihood that the project will make a significant
  contribution to the field in scholarship and knowledge; 4) the usefulness of the
  proposed product in fulfilling the Institute's mandate. The Institute is
  particularly interested in proposals that envision a specific product of enduring
  value.
