                                 DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

93.001 CIVIL RIGHTS AND PRIVACY RULE                                                 
COMPLIANCE ACTIVITIES                                                                
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                            
  SERVICES                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title VI, as amended; Rehabilitation Act of 1973,        
  Sections 504 and 508, as amended; Education Amendments of 1972, Title IX, as       
  amended; Age Discrimination Act of 1975, as amended; Education                     
  Amendments of 1972, Title IX, as amended; Nondiscrimination Provisions of          
  the Public Health Service Act, Titles VI, VII, VIII, and XVI, as amended;          
  Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, Public Law 97-35, as amended;           
  Drug Abuse Offense and Treatment Act of 1972, Section 407; Comprehensive           
  Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism Prevention, Treatment and Rehabilitation Act of       
  1970, Section 321, as amended; Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of            
  1981, 42 U.S.C. 8625; Community Services Block Grant Act, 42 U.S.C. 398;           
  Family Violence Prevention and Services Act, as amended, Section 307 (a)(1)        
  and (2), Public Law 98-457; Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, Title II,     
  Subtitle A, Public Law 101-336; Small Business Job Protection Act of 1996,         
  Section 1808, Public Law 104-188; Health Insurance Portability and                 
  Accountability Act of 1996 (HIPAA), 42 U.S.C. 1320d-2, 45 CFR Part 160 and         
  Subparts A and E of Part 164--Standards for Privacy of Individually Identifiable   
  Health Information (the "Privacy Rule"); Public Health Service Act, Title IX, 42   
  U.S.C. 299b-22, as amended by the Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act       
  of 2005, Public Law 109-41.                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Office for Civil Rights (OCR) in the Department of Health and Human            
  Services (HHS) promotes and ensures that people have equal access to and the       
  opportunity to participate in and receive services from all HHS-funded programs    
  without facing unlawful discrimination, and that the privacy of their health       
  information is protected. OCR protects the civil rights of all individuals who are 
  subject to discrimination in health and human services programs and protect the    
  health information privacy rights of consumers through investigations, voluntary   
  dispute resolution, enforcement, technical assistance, policy development and      
  information services.                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Investigation of Complaints.                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The Office for Civil Rights (OCR) in the Department of Health and Human            
  Services (HHS) is responsible for promoting and ensuring that people have equal    
  access to and the opportunity to participate in and receive services from all      
  HHS-funded programs without facing unlawful discrimination, and that privacy       
  of their health information is protected. These HHS funded programs are            
  provided through state agencies, nursing homes, skilled nursing facilities,        
  medical laboratories, hospitals, day care centers, social service agencies and     
  other providers. Any person who believes that he or she has been discriminated     
  against in the provision of these services because of race, color, national origin,
  disability, age, sex or religion, may file a complaint with OCR. Individuals may   
  also file complaints of sex discrimination in health training programs receiving   
  Federal financial assistance, and complaints of denials of health care for reasons 
  other than the need and availability of services, by recipients of Hill-Burton     
  grants and loans. OCR also has enforcement responsibilities under the              
  Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) of 1990, and Section 1808 of the Small       
  Business Job Protection Act (SBJPA) of 1996. Regarding the ADA, any person         
  who believes that he or she has been denied benefits in health and human           
  services programs and activities conducted by state or local government entities,  
  because of his/her disability, may file a complaint with OCR. Regarding Section    
  1808 of the SBJPA, any individual may file a complaint with OCR alleging that      
  an adoption or foster care organization funded by HHS makes placement              
  decisions in violation of Section 1808 of the SBJPA and Title VI of the Civil      
                                                                                     
  Rights Act of 1964. The Office will investigate complaints and take steps to

                                                                                     
  ensure compliance with applicable civil rights laws. OCR also enforces the

                                                                                     
  Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule as

                                                                                     
  well as the Patient Safety and Quality Improvement Act (PSQIA) of 2005.            
  OCR's activities under the Privacy Rule include: investigating complaints and      
  conducting public education, technical assistance and other outreach activities to 
  health care providers, health care clearinghouses and health plans, to ensure that 
  they understand their responsibilities under the Rule; to other entities that may  
  be impacted by the Rule, including Federal, State and local government             
  agencies, researchers, and business associates of covered entities; and to         
  consumers to inform them of their rights under the Privacy Rule. Anyone who        
  believes that a person, agency or organization covered under the HIPAA Privacy     
  Rule ("a covered entity") has violated the Privacy Rule may file a complaint with  
  OCR. OCR's activities under PSQIA include: administering an enforcement            
  program regarding the confidentiality protections, including conducting            
  investigations, taking compliance actions, and making penalty determinations;      


                                                                                11-08
  developing, for issuance by the Secretary, regulations regarding such compliance
  and enforcement program; Imposing Civil Monetary Penalties (CMPs) for
  confidentiality violations; Interpreting standards for enforcement and for
  guidance to Patient Safety Organizations (PSOs) and providers; and Providing
  technical assistance and public information in the administration of the
  enforcement program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Anyone who believes he or she has been discriminated against in the manner
  outlined above or seeks information concerning civil rights, and recipients of
  Federal financial assistance who desire technical assistance and information for
  the purpose of assuring their compliance with nondiscrimination laws.
  Regarding the HIPAA Privacy Rule, anyone who believes that the Privacy Rule
  has been violated in the manner outlined above, or who seeks information about
  the Rule; consumers that need to know their rights under the Rule; and entities
  that need technical assistance and information for the purpose of assuring
  compliance with the Privacy Rule.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals subject to discrimination and recipients who require technical
  assistance and information. Regarding the HIPAA Privacy Rule, individuals
  subject to violation of their health information privacy, covered entities, and
  others needing or seeking technical assistance and information concerning the
  Rule.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Contact the Director, Office for Civil Rights. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Complaints of discrimination and alleged violations of the HIPAA Privacy Rule
  may be filed, and technical assistance information and public education
  requested, at the Headquarters and Regional Office locations of the Office for
  Civil Rights.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  A complaint must be filed not later than 180 days from the last act of the alleged
  discrimination, unless the time for filing is waived for good cause. Complaints
  under the Privacy Rule must be filed within 180 days of the date when the
  complainant knew, or should have known, that the act or omission complained
  of occurred, unless the time limit is waived for good cause.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  Individuals can appeal a civil rights discrimination complaint determination by
  submitting, in writing, a request for reconsideration to the Director, Office for
  Civil Rights. OCR imposes civil money penalties (CMPs) on a covered entity
  found to be in violation of the HIPAA Privacy Rule. If CMPs are imposed by
  OCR, the covered entity may request a hearing in which an HHS administrative
  law judge (ALJ) decides if the CMPs are supported by the evidence in the case.
  OCR is required to present the evidence to support the imposition of CMPs to
  the ALJ. The covered entity may also then appeal the ALJ's decision to the HHS
  Departmental Appeals Board (DAB) and ultimately to the U.S. Courts of
  Appeal.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  75-0135-0-1-751.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $34,909,000; FY 08 est $37,062,000; and FY 09
  est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  OCR enforces nondiscrimination and privacy requirements by processing and
  resolving complaints, conducting compliance reviews, and carrying out
  voluntary compliance, public education, outreach and technical assistance
  activities. OCR continues to achieve significant accomplishments in all of these
  areas. In Fiscal Year (FY) 2007: 11,290 individual complaints were filed with
                                                                                 1219
