  OCR (3,371 civil rights discrimination cases and 7,919 Privacy Rule cases);         
  OCR completed action on 10,053 complaint cases (3,131 discrimination and            
  6,922 Privacy Rule); OCR completed 2,352 compliance reviews (including              
  2,306 pre-grant and 46 post-grant reviews) on its traditional civil rights          
  authorities; and OCR provided information and training to 75,632 individuals.       
  OCR projects that approximately 11,700 individual complaints will be filed in       
  FY 2008 (3,300 civil rights discrimination cases and 8,400 Privacy Rule cases);     
  OCR is projected to complete action on approximately 10,700 complaint cases         
  (3,500 discrimination and 7,200 Privacy Rule). OCR is also on target to             
  complete 1,800 compliance reviews (including 1,750 pre-grant and 50 post-           
  grant reviews) in FY 2008 and to provide information and training to more than      
  75,000 individuals. Highlights of OCR's major accomplishments in FY 2007            
  and FY 2008 in some of our priority areas are as follows. LIMITED ENGLISH           
  PROFICIENCY -- OCR continues to work with health care and social service            
  providers, state and local agencies, and other HHS components to ensure that        
  limited English proficient (LEP) persons are not discriminated against on the       
  basis of national origin in HHS-funded programs (e.g., emergency room care,         
  welfare to work, child protective services, senior centers, and in-home services).  
  OCR continued its technical assistance, public education and outreach activities    
  in connection with the revised Limited English Proficiency guidance issued in       
  August 2003. In FY 2007, in collaboration with the American Hospital                
  Association (AHA), OCR established partnerships with 13 state-wide hospital         
  associations to provide technical assistance tailored to the unique needs and       
  demographics of the AHA member hospitals to assist them in meeting their legal      
  obligations to engage in effective communication, consistent with the HIPAA         
  Privacy Rule, with limited English proficient and deaf or hard of hearing           
  patients and their companions, thereby promoting patient safety and quality         
  health care. MULTI-ETHNIC PLACEMENT ACT (MEPA)/SECTION 1808 -                       
  FOSTER CARE AND ADOPTION SERVICES -- OCR continues to strengthen                    
  families and create better conditions for children to live in permanent, safe       
  environments through its work to remedy race, color, and national origin            
  discrimination in foster care and adoption. For example, in FY 2007, OCR            
  successfully negotiated a comprehensive compliance agreement with the South         
  Carolina Department of Social Services, which ensures that the 53 state offices     
  serving over 5,000 children in foster care and all prospective adoptive and foster  
  parents will not delay or deny the placement of children into foster or adoptive    
  homes, or deny parents the opportunity to foster or adopt children, due to race,    
  color or national origin. NEW FREEDOM INITIATIVE -- OCR is involved in a            
  variety of efforts to increase the independence and quality of life of persons with 
  disabilities, including those with long-term needs. Most notably, OCR has           
  played a critical role in implementation of the Administration's New Freedom        
  Initiative that was announced in February 2001, and implemented through             
  Executive Order (E.O.) 13217 issued on June 19, 2001. The E.O. calls for swift      
  implementation of the Olmstead Supreme Court decision and full enforcement          
  of Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act through investigations,          
  complaint resolution, and the use of alternative dispute resolution. OCR            
  maintains a New Freedom Initiative web page, on which it published "Delivering      
  on thePromise:                                                                      
  OCR'sCompliance Activities Promote Community Integration." This report              
  provides accounts of satisfactorily resolved complaints affecting over 250          
  individuals. In FY 2007, OCR entered into a resolution agreement with the           
  Massachusetts Department of Transitional Assistance that achieved statewide         
  reform by requiring all 28 offices serving more than 400,000 individuals across     
  the state to implement effective screening and assessment programs that will        
  allow TANF beneficiaries with learning disabilities to acquire the education and    
  support services needed to find and retain jobs. Through its website, OCR will      
  continue to expand the information available to consumers and providers about       
  the civil rights of persons with disabilities in order to further facilitate the    
  community integration of individuals with disabilities. EMERGENCY                   
  PREPEAREDNESS PLANNING AND RESPONSE -- OCR has been actively

  involved in many government-wide activities related to emergency planning,          
  response, and recovery. In FY 2007, OCR provided technical assistance to ten        
  states examining privacy issues in pandemic flu planning and response. In a

  workshop convened in May 2007, by the Association of State and Territorial          
  Health Officials, OCR guided state public health agency and privacy officials       
  through important decision points, using the OCR decision tool for emergency        
  preparedness. HIPAA PRIVACY RULE -- A major responsibility given to OCR             
  in December 2000 is protecting the privacy of health information under the          
  Privacy Rule, which was enacted under the Health Insurance Portability and          
  Accountability Act (HIPAA) of 1996. The Rule protects the privacy of                
  individually identifiable health information held by health plans, covered health   
  care providers, and health care clearinghouses. OCR promotes compliance with        
                                                                                      
  the Privacy Rule by investigating and resolving complaints, developing policy

                                                                                      
  guidance and public education materials, and providing technical assistance

                                                                                      
  directly to covered entities and members of the public. To promote the well-

                                                                                      
  being of individuals at risk of violence and mental illness, OCR is carrying out

                                                                                      
  Presidential mandates to improve understanding of appropriate information-

                                                                                      
  sharing under the HIPAA Privacy Rule and to share best practices with states

                                                                                      
  about mental health services pursuant to the June 13, 2007 Report to the

                                                                                      


1220                                                                            11-08

  President on Issues Raised by the Virginia Tech Tragedy. OCR participated with
  the Departments of Education and Justice on panels about understanding federal
  privacy rules at the Department of Justice's annual national conference on
  Project Safe Neighborhoods. Pursuant to the President's directive, in FY 2008
  OCR has developed, in coordination with the Department of Education,
  guidance to clarify the intersection of the HIPAA Privacy Rule and the Family
  Educational Rights and Privacy Act, as well as the circumstances under which
  information may be shared under both laws in emergency circumstances.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964--the implementing regulation (45 CFR
  80), "Your Rights Under Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 fact sheet,
  "Know Your Rights" brochure regarding national origin discrimination and
  limited English proficiency, a video in VHS and DVD formats entitled "Title VI
  Limited English Proficiency"; Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973--the
  implementing regulation for HHS funded programs and activities (45 CFR 84),
  and fact sheets "Your Rights Under Section 504," "Your Rights as a Person with
  HIV Infection, AIDS, or Related Conditions," "Your Rights Under Section 504
  and the Americans with Disabilities Act," and the HHS Section 504 federally
  conducted regulation (45 CFR 85); Age Discrimination Act of 1975--
  implementing regulations, HHS (45 CFR 91) and government-wide (45 CFR
  90), and fact sheet "Your Rights Under the Age Discrimination Act";
  Community Service Assurance of the Hill-Burton regulation (42 CFR 124) and
  fact sheet "Community Service Assurance Under the Hill-Burton Act"; Sex
  Discrimination in Health-Related Training Programs regulation (45 CFR 83);
  fact sheets on: Section 1808/Multiethnic Placement Act (MEPA); the Americans
  with Disabilities Act (ADA); "How to File a Discrimination Complaint with
  OCR"; "Know Your Civil Rights"; a video presentation: OCR guidance on
  Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF) and Disability; and various
  other civil rights publications. HIPAA regulations and standards, including the
  Privacy Rule, 45 CFR Part 160 and Subparts A and E of Part 164; "Your Health
  Information Privacy Rights"; "Privacy and Your Health Information"; fact sheets
  and guidance on specific aspects of the Privacy Rule, and additional compliance
  tools such as "Am I a Covered Entity" and Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs).
  A complete list of Privacy Rule publications is available. There is also a
  brochure titled "Protecting Your Civil Rights in Health and Social Services and
  Your Health Information Privacy Rights," which provides general information
  about the Office for Civil Rights and its services. All literature is available at no
  charge; however, because of budgetary constraints and availability of stock,
  quantities may be limited. Most publications can be downloaded from OCR's
  website and are available in languages other than English. All publications are
  available in alternative formats for individuals with disabilities.
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional Manager, Office for Civil Rights, HHS Regional Offices. (See
  Appendix IV of the Catalog for listing.)
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Office for Civil Rights, Office of the Secretary, Department of Health
  and Human Services, Hubert H. Humphrey Building - Mail Stop Room 509-F6,
  200 Independence Ave. S.W., Washington, DC 20201; Telephone: (202) 619-
  0403. Toll free numbers: 1(800) 368-1019 (voice); 1(800) 537-7697 (TDD).
  Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule
  information toll free number: 1(866) 627-7748.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hhs.gov/ocr.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
93.003 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SOCIAL SERVICES
EMERGENCY FUND
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 319 (a).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide supplemental funding for public health and social service
  emergencies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are available for public health and social service emergencies. Funds are
  initially appropriated to the Office of the Secretary, but virtually all funding is
  allocated to HHS agencies for award and use in disaster areas.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federal agencies, State and local governments, and other service providers in
  areas impacted.
