Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Individuals, families, Federal, State, and local government agencies.               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Guidelines and requirements to be determined by agencies administering grant

  programs and services.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

  Applicant should consult the office or official designated as the contact for       
  additional information on the application and award process. An environmental       
  impact statement and an environmental impact assessment are required for this       
  program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                    
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult         
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information concerning the required process to be followed in applying     
  for assistance if the State has selected the program for review.                    
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicant should consult the office or official designated as the contact for       
  additional information on the application procedure.                                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Awards will be granted by agency or office administering the funds.                 
Deadlines:                                                                            
  To be determined by agency or office administering the funds.                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  To be determined by agency or office administering the funds.                       
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula and matching requirements.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                      
  To be determined by agency or office administering the funds.

                                                                                      
Reports:

                                                                                      
  Reporting requirements have not been established at this time. Requirements

                                                                                      
  will be transmitted to recipients.

                                                                                      
Audits:

                                                                                      
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                      
  24, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,

                                                                                      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                      
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                      
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                      
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are

                                                                                      
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government

                                                                                      
  officials.

                                                                                      
Records:                                                                              
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the

                                                                                      
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report

                                                                                      
  period.

                                                                                      
Account Identification:

                                                                                      
  75-0140-0-1-551.

                                                                                      
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported.                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $409,230 to $0; $0.                                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Not available at this time. Guidelines are expected to be transmitted to recipients 
  by agency or office administering the funds.                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  CMHS Program Contact: Terri H. Spear, Emergency Coordinator, 1 Choke                
  Cherry Road, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (240) 276-2244. Grants                 
  Management Contact: Gwendolyn Simpson, Grants Management Team leader                
  for CMHS: Telephone: (240) 276-1408.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.samhsa.gov .                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  In FY 2001, funds were used for: Community Health Centers affected in the           
  New York/New Jersey area and the increased demands for primary medical care         
  services and mental health services for low income and homeless populations as      
  a result of the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the World trade Center on     
  September 11, 2001; grants to organizations in disaster-affected areas for the for  
  healthcare-related cost and lost revenue incurred; and grants to States to improve  
  hospital capacity to respond to bioterrorism. In FY 2007 and FY 2008, funds         
  will be used to continue to prepare our nation's public health system and           
  hospitals for future emergencies, for a emergency reserve of medical supplies for   
  use in a variety of possible mass casualty events, and to accelerate research into  


                                                                                 11-08
  new treatments and diagnostic tools to cope with possible bioterrorism incident.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  To be determined by agency or office administering the funds.
93.004 COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS TO IMPROVE THE
HEALTH STATUS OF MINORITY POPULATIONS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title XVII, Section 1707 (e) (1), 42
  U.S.C. 300u et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide support for activities which have the potential to improve the health
  status and/or quality of life of racial/ethnic minorities, with the objective of
  reducing the excessive burden and death borne by minority and disadvantaged
  populations in the United States.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are to be used for support of projects or activities consistent with the
  mission of the Office of Minority Health. Funds are not to be used for the
  provision of health care services, construction, augmentation of on-going Office
  of Minority Health (OMH) supported demonstrations, or supplementation of on-
  going project activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public and private nonprofit entities may apply. Faith based organizations are
  eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Members of the minority and disadvantaged groups: Blacks; Hispanics;
  American Indians; Alaska Natives; Asian/American Pacific Islanders; or
  subgroups of these.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proof of nonprofit status is required as part of the application submission.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program does not require preapplication coordination. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling 240-453-8822 or writing to: Ms.
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS e-Grants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS e-Grants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  Accepted applications will be reviewed by a review panel that will make
  recommendations on the technical merit based on the published criteria. After
  considering the recommendations of the panel, the Deputy Assistant Secretary
  for Minority Health, will make a final decision on funding projects and a notice
  of grant award will be issued.
Deadlines:
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will
  be returned to the applicant unread.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
                                                                                1221
