  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  The cooperative agreements will have a project period not to exceed 5 years,       
  with 12-month budget periods. Following the initial budget period, continued       
  funding is subject to the availability of funds and satisfactory program           
  performance. Necessary instructions regarding payment procedure will be            
  provided at the time the award is issued.                                          
Reports:                                                                             
  Semi-annual or quarterly progress reports may be required with a final             
  performance report due 90 days after the end of the project period. A Financial    
  Status Report is due 90 days after the end of each budget period with a final      
  Financial Status Report is due 90 days after the end of the project period.        
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June        
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                    
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000   
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit           
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a      
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,   
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative         
  agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal          
  government officials.                                                              
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other        
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer 
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.                           
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants-Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $7,842,317; FY 08 est not available;         
  and FY 09 est not reported.                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $25,000 to $614,000; $186,000.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  n FY 2006 and FY 2007 (9) continuation awards will be supported.                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  45 CFR 74 and 92. Specific program requirements are contained in the Federal       
  Register Notice, the application instructions, and the PHS Grants Policy           
  Statement.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Program Contact: Ms. Cynthia H. Amis, Director, Division of Program                
  Operations, Office of Minority Health, Office of Public Health and Science,        
  Office of the Secretary, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 600, Rockville, MD            
  20852. Telephone: (240) 453-8444. Grants Management Contact: Office of             
  Grants Management, Office of Public Health and Science, 1101 Wootton               
  Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852, Telephone (240) 453-8822.                 
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.OMHRC.gov .                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  The following are examples of activities funded under the cooperative              
  agreements: 1) provide through the establishment of an American Indian Alaska      
  Native Research Network a means by which American Indian and Alaskan               
  Native researchers can network, collaborate and seek support; 2) to educate and    
  increase provider sensitivity about cultural practices and their influence on      
  patient compliance with medication and therapeutic treatment interventions; and    
  3) reduce the prenatal HIV transmission among African American women of            
  child bearing age and their care providers through health promotion and            
  education.                                                                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Complete review criteria are published in the Federal Register Notice or can be

                                                                                     
  obtained from the Program contact. Listed below are some criteria used to

                                                                                     
  review applications: 1) consistency of project's goals and objectives with the

                                                                                     
  Office of Minority Health's mission; 2) coherence and feasibility of methodology

                                                                                     
  and activities selected to address the problem as evidence in the proposed

                                                                                     
  implementation plan; 3) strength of proposed grant organization's management

                                                                                     
  capability; 4) adequacy of qualifications, experience and cultural competence of

                                                                                     
  proposed personnel; and 5) strength of analysis of potential impact or innovation

                                                                                     
  the project proposes to generate.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.006 STATE AND TERRITORIAL AND TECHNICAL                                           
ASSISTANCE CAPACITY DEVELOPMENT MINORITY                                             
                                                                                     
HIV/AIDS DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM

                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                            
  SERVICES                                                                           


1222                                                                           11-08

AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title XVII, Section 1707 (e)(1), 42
  U.S.C. 300u et seq.; Public Law 93-641.
OBJECTIVES:
  To demonstrate that the involvement of State and Territorial Offices of Minority
  Health in coordinating a statewide response to the HIV/AIDS crisis in minority
  communities can have a greater impact on the communities' understanding of
  the disease, and the coordination of prevention and treatment services for
  minority populations, than agencies and/or organizations working
  independently; and to stimulate and foster the development of effective and
  durable service delivery capacity for HIV prevention and treatment among
  organizations closely linked with the minority populations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are to be used to support minority-targeted health education and
  prevention strategies which will help to eliminate or reduce the risk for acquiring
  or transmitting HIV/AIDS and increase access to services and treatment; and to
  provide technical assistance and capacity development to community based
  minority-serving organizations to enhance their delivery capacity for HIV/AIDS
  prevention and treatment. Funds are not to be used for the provision of health
  care services, construction, augmentation of ongoing Office of Minority Health
  (OMH) supported demonstrations, or to supplant ongoing project activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State/Territorial Offices of Minority Health or, for those states and territories
  that do not have established Office of Minority Health, a state or territorial
  minority health entity located within a State or Territorial Department of Health
  which functions in the capacity of an Office of Minority Health; and community
  based, minority-serving organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Members of the minority groups: American Indians or Alaska Natives; Asians;
  Blacks or African Americans; Hispanics or Latinos; Native Hawaiians or other
  Pacific Islanders; or subgroups of these populations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proof of nonprofit status is required as part of the application submission, where
  applicable. Documentation to verify official status as a State or Territorial
  Office of Minority Health signed by a State/territorial level authorizing official
  (e.g., Governor or designated official, Commissioner of Health or designee) or
  documentation to verify official status as a State or territorial minority health
  entity signed by the Commissioner of Health or designee in the Department of
  Health, as applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program does not require preapplication coordination. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official designated as the
  single point of contact in the State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be filed with applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review. This program is also covered by the Public Health System
  reporting requirements.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling 240-453-8822 or writing to: Ms.
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS e-Grants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS e-Grants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  Accepted applications will be reviewed by a panel that will make
  recommendations on the technical merit based on the published criteria. After
  considering the recommendations of the panel, the Deputy Assistant Secretary
  for Minority Health, will make a final decision on funding projects and a notice
  of grant award will be issued.
