Deadlines:                                                                          
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established    
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will  
  be returned to the applicant unread.                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 90 to 120 days from the application deadline date.

Appeals:

  None.

                                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.

                                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                    
  The grants will have a project period not to exceed 3 years, with 12 month

                                                                                    
  budget periods. Following the initial budget period, continued funding is subject

                                                                                    
  to the availability of funds and satisfactory program performance. Necessary      
  instructions regarding payment procedure will be provided at the time the award   
  is issued.                                                                        
Reports:                                                                            
  Progress reports are required for each budget period and a final performance      
  report due 90 days after the end of the project period. A Financial Status Report 
  is due 90 days after the end of each budget period with a final Financial Status  
  Report due 90 days after the end of the project period.                           
Audits:                                                                             
  In Accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June       
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                   
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000  
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit          
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a     
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,  
  except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                        
Records:                                                                            
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other       
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.                          
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 6,700,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $144,127 to $1,200,000; $430,649.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In FY 07 17 continuation awards will be supported.                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  45 CFR 74 and 92. Specific program requirements are contained in the Federal      
  Register Notice, the application instructions, and the PHS Grants Policy          
  Statement.                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Not applicable.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                    
  Program Contact: Ms. Cynthia H. Amis, Director, Division of Program

                                                                                    
  Operations, Office of Minority Health, Office of Public Health and Science,

                                                                                    
  Office of the Secretary, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 700, Rockville, MD

                                                                                    
  20852. Telephone: (240) 453-8444. Grants Management Contact: Office of

                                                                                    
  Grants Management, Office of Public Health and Science, 1101 Wootton

                                                                                    
  Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852, Telephone (240) 453-8822.

                                                                                    
Web Site Address:

                                                                                    
  http://www.omhrc.gov .

                                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:

  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  The following are examples of activities funded under this program: 1)            
  identification of the needs of minority populations, facilitation of linkages     
  between minority community based organizations to develop greater resource        
  capacity, and coordinating federal resources through a needs assessment,          
  mobilization of ethno-specific community coalitions, and minority linkage         
  conferences; 2) using Geographic Information System mapping to explore the        
  correlation between HIV/AIDS distribution and identified socioeconomic            
  indicators, and employing epidemiological data to determine areas of highest      
  need, profiling local and state minority community based organizations and        
  making the information available on the Internet, and disseminating data and      
  other HIV/AIDS related information via the Internet; and 3) conducting needs      
  assessment, training workshops and seminar for minority community based           
  organization staff and board members in diverse planning and management           
  skills, and developing a pool of consultants with technical assistance and        
  cultural/linguistic competence.                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Complete review criteria are published in the Federal Register Notice or can be   
  obtained from the Program contact. Listed below are some criteria used to         
  review applications: 1) consistency of project's goals and objectives with the    
  Office of Minority Health's mission; 2) coherence and feasibility of methodology  


                                                                               11-08
  and activities selected to address the problem as evidence in the proposed
  implementation plan; 3) strength of proposed grant organization's management
  capability; 4) adequacy of qualifications, experience and cultural competence of
  proposed personnel; and 5) strength of analysis of potential impact or innovation
  the project proposes to generate.
93.007 PUBLIC AWARENESS CAMPAIGNS ON EMBRYO
ADOPTION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 107-116.
OBJECTIVES:
  To fund public awareness campaigns on embryo adoption.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  None.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants include public agencies, nonprofit organizations, and for-
  profit organizations. Eligibility to compete for this announcement is limited to
  particular applicant organizations. Only agencies and organizations, not
  individuals, are eligible to apply. One agency must be identified as the applicant
  organization and will have legal responsibility for the project. Additional
  agencies and organizations can be included as co-participants, subgrantees,
  subcontractors, or collaborators if they will assist in providing expertise and in
  helping to meet the needs of the recipients. Faith-based and community-based
  organizations meeting the eligibility requirements may apply, or they may be
  included as co-participants, subgrantees, subcontractors, or collaborators if they
  will assist in providing expertise and in helping to meet the needs of recipients.
  Eligibility is limited to organizations that can demonstration previous experience
  with embryo adoption and are knowledgeable in all elements of the process of
  embryo adoption.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Potential donors and/or recipients of frozen embryos.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proof of nonprofit status is required of nonprofit organizations and institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Letter of Intent requested for submission 30 days after publication of RFA in the
  Federal Register. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be prepared on the forms supplied (OPHS-1, Revised 6/2001)
  and in the manner prescribed in the application kits provided by the Office of
  Public Health and Science (OPHS). The application must be signed by an
  individual authorized to act for the applicant agency and to assume
  responsibility for the obligations imposed by the terms and conditions of the
  grant award. Each application will be evaluated individually against the
  following four criteria by an objective review panel appointed by the OPHS.
  Before the review panel convenes, each application will be screened for
  applicant organization eligibility, as well as to make sure the application
  contains all the essential elements. Applications received from ineligible
  organizations and applications received after the deadline will be withdrawn
  from further consideration. A panel of at least three reviewers will use the
  evaluation criteria listed below to determine the strengths and weaknesses of
  each application, provide comments and assign numerical scores. Applicants
  should address each criterion in the project application. The point values
  (summing up to 100) indicate the maximum numerical weight each criterion will
  be accorded in the review process.
Award Procedure:
  The results of a competitive review are a primary factor in making funding
  decisions. In addition, Federal staff will conduct administrative reviews of the
  applications and, in light of the results of the competitive review, will
  recommend applications for funding to the Assistance Secretary for Health
  (ASH). The ASH reserves the option of discussing applications with other
  funding sources when this is in the best interest of the Federal government. The
  ASH may also solicit and consider comments from Public Health Service
  Regional Office staff and others within Department of Health and Human
  Services (DHHS) in making funding decisions. The ASH makes final decisions
  regarding the applications to be funded. The OPHS does not release information
  about individual applications during the review process. When final decisions
  have been made, successful applicants will be notified by letter of the outcome
  of the final funding decisions. The official document notifying an applicant that
  a project has been approved for funding is the Notice of Grant Award (NGA),
  which sets forth the amount of funds granted, the terms and conditions of the
  award, the effective date of the grant, the budget period for which initial support
  will be given, and the total project period for which support is contemplated.
  The ASH will notify an organization in writing when its application will not be
  funded. Every effort will be made to notify all unsuccessful applicants as soon as
                                                                                 1223
