  possible after final decisions are made.                                             
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Applications are due 60 days after publication of an RFA in the Federal

  Register.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 1-2 months.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Projects are approved for one year period.                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Grants do not exceed one year.                                                       
Reports:                                                                               
  Grantees must submit annual and final report. Expenditure reports are due 90         
  days after the end of the budget/project period.                                     
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  Health and Human Services (HHS) and the Controller General of the United             
  States or any of their authorized representatives, shall have the right of access to 
  any books, documents, papers, or other records of a grantee, subgrantee,             
  contractor, or subcontractor, which are pertinent to the HHS grant, in order to      
  make audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts. In accordance with 45          
  CFR, Part 74.53, and 45 CFR, Part 92, grantees are required to maintain grant        
  accounting records 3 years after the end of a budget period. If any litigation,      
  claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records has been started     
  before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until      
  completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until  
  the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $200,000 to $250,000.                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  None.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  42 CFR 52, 45 CFR 74; 45 CFR 92; PHS Grants Policy Statement (Rev.) April            
  1, 1994.                                                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Program Contact: Ms. Evelyn Kappeler, Office of Population Affairs, Office of

                                                                                       
  Public Health and Science, Department of Health and Human Services, 1101

                                                                                       
  Wootton Parkway, Suite 700, Rockville MD, 20852. Telephone: (240) 453-               
  2828. Grants Management Contact: Office of Grants Management, Office of

                                                                                       
  Grants Management, Office of Public Health and Science, Department of Health         
  and Human Services, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville MD, 20852.            
  Telephone: (240) 453-2888.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.osophs.dhhs.gov/ophs .

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  1: Objectives and Need for Assistance (30 Points) Applicants must demonstrate        
  a clear understanding of the legislative goals and demonstrate how their             
  approach to the design of a public awareness campaign will contribute to             
  achieve the legislative goals. Criterion 2: Approach (30 Points) In this section,    
  applicants are expected to define goals and specific, measurable objectives for      
  the: (A) Design of the public awareness campaign, (B) implementation, (C)            
  evaluation, and (D) dissemination. 3: Organizational Profile (20 Points)             
  Applicants need to demonstrate that they have the capacity to implement the          
  proposed program. This criterion consists of three broad topics: (A)                 
  Management plan, (B) staff qualifications, and (C) organizational capacity and       
  resources. 4: Budget and Budget Justification (20 Points) Applicants are             
  expected to present a budget with reasonable project costs, appropriately            
  allocated across component areas and sufficient to accomplish the objectives.        
  Applicants are expected to allocate sufficient funds in the budget to provide for    
  the project director to attend a two-day orientation meeting the in the              
  Washington, DC area.                                                                 


1224                                                                             11-08

93.008 MEDICAL RESERVE CORPS SMALL GRANT
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 241, Section 301.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support the development of Medical Reserve Corps (MRC) units in
  communities throughout the United States to: (1) increase capacity at the
  community level to respond during emergencies which have medical
  consequences, and (2) improve public health in communities through
  volunteerism on an ongoing basis.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are to be used for establishment of community-based, citizen volunteer
  Medical Reserve Corps. Funds may be used for organizing, volunteer
  recruitment, assessment of risks and vulnerabilities, strategy development,
  planning, training, drills/practice, supplies and equipment.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants may be an entity of the local government or a local nonprofit, non-
  governmental community-based organization. If a local Citizen Corps Council
  has a nonprofit status, the Citizen Corps Council can be the applicant. Faith
  based organizations are eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proof of nonprofit status is required as part of the application submission. Costs
  will be determined in accordance with 45 CFR 74 and 92.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. The application kit to be made
  available under this notice will contain a listing of States that have chosen to set
  up a review system and will include a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in
  the State for review. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribes)
  should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective
  applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For
  proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to
  contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office of the
  Surgeon General does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling 240-453-8822 or writing to: Ms.
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS eGrants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS eGrants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline will be returned without comment.
  Accepted applications will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with
  PHS policies. Applications will be evaluated by a technical review panel
  composed of experts. Funding decisions will be determined by the Director,
  Division for Policy and Program Development, Office on Women's Health and
  will take into consideration the recommendations and ratings of the review
