  panel; program needs, stated preferences; geographic location; and                
  recommendations of DHHS Regional Women's Health Coordinators. .

Deadlines:                                                                          
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established    
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will  
  be returned to the applicant unread.                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Project period is for 3 year.                                                     
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Grant projects will have a project period not to exceed 3 years, with 12 month    
  budget periods. Following the initial budget period, continued funding is subject 
  to the availability of funds and satisfactory program performance. Necessary      
  instructions regarding payment procedures will be provided at the time of the     
  award.                                                                            
Reports:                                                                            
  Progress reports are required annually for each budget period, and a final        
  progress report is due 90 days following the end of the project period. Financial 
  Status Reports are due at the end of each budget period, and a final Financial    
  Status Report is due 90 days following the end of the project period.             
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 "Audit of States,    
  Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities that         
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a     
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities   
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt as noted in    
  Circular No. A- 133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject   
  to inspection and audits by HHS and other Federal government officials.           
Records:                                                                            
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other       
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer
  pending completion and resolution of any audit finding(s).                        
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $8,350,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY        
  09 est not reported.                                                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $10,000 to $50,000; $50,000.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                    
  45 CFR 74 and 92. Specific program requirements are contained in the Federal

                                                                                    
  Register Notice, the application instructions, and the PHS Grants Policy

                                                                                    
  Statement. A guide for local groups/organizations to help them in establishing a

                                                                                    
  Medical Reserve Corps will be disseminated by the Office of the Surgeon

                                                                                    
  General of the U.S. Public Health Service.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

  Not applicable.                                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Program Contact: Office of the Surgeon General, USPHS, Room 18-66, 5600           
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, Maryland 20817. Telephone (301) 443-2528. Grants         
  Management Contact: Office of Grants Management, Office of Public Health          
  and Science, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852,                
  Telephone (240) 453-8822.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.medicalreservecorps.gov .                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  None.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Complete review criteria are published in the Federal Register Notice or can be   
  obtained from the Program contact. Listed below are some criteria used to         
  review applications: 1) Implementation plan which describing linkages to          
  existing community resources, the role the Medical Reserve Corps will most        
  likely have, and the timeframe for planning and implementation; 2) Management     
  plan describing the organization's capabilities; 3) Evaluation plan describing    
  program goals and how those goals will be assessed; 4) Supporting                 
  documentation detailing how the Medical Reserve Corps is connected to a           
  Citizen Corps Council; and 5) Background on the adequacy of demonstrated          
  knowledge of emergency medical response/care systems and utilization of           
  volunteers.                                                                       
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
93.009 COMPASSION CAPITAL FUND                                                      
                                                                               11-08
   (CCF)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 1110 of the Social Security Act governing Social Services Research and
  Demonstration activities; the Departments of Labor, Health and Human
  Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2004,
  Public Law 107-116, Title II and the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008,
  Public Law 110-161.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants to charitable organizations to emulate model social service
  programs and to encourage research on the best practices of social service
  organizations. This is accomplished through the goal of assisting faith-based and
  community organizations to increase their effectiveness, enhance their ability to
  provide social services, expand their organizations, diversify their funding
  sources, and create collaborations to better serve those most in need. This is
  accomplished by funding experienced intermediary organizations in well-
  defined geographic locations with a proven track record of providing technical
  assistance to smaller faith-based and community organizations in their
  communities, providing one-time $50,000 grants to smaller faith-based and
  community organizations to build their capacity, and providing grants to
  strengthen broad-based collaborative community that are working to reduce
  gang involvement, youth violence, and child abuse and neglect and to foster
  positive youth development.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Intermediary organizations use the CCF funds to provide two services within
  their communities: 1) Training assistance to faith-based and community
  organizations; and 2) Financial support through sub-awards to some subset of
  the faith-based and community organizations in their communities. Technical
  assistance activities funded under CCF are to be conducted at no cost to
  interested faith-based and community organizations. Applicants must have
  demonstrated experience in the delivery of capacity-building assistance to
  smaller organizations in several of the following areas: strategic planning,
  financial management, board development, fund development, and outcome
  measurement. Technical assistance should be provided on a long-term, on-going
  basis to smaller organizations. The program goals are further accomplished
  through the issuance of sub-awards by the funded intermediary organizations to
  a diverse set of small faith-based and community organizations that seek to
  increase program and organizational effectiveness for a 12-month period. Sub-
  award recipients must adhere to the following: sub-award recipients must be
  chosen from fair and open competitive process; sub-award recipients must not
  be pre-selected; the awarding process must be fair and open competition and
  include outreach to both faith-based and community organizations; intermediary
  organizations must provide on-going technical assistance and capacity-building
  support to the organizations to which they issue sub-awards; and the criteria for
  selection must not include consideration of the religious nature of the program it
  offers. Priority for sub-awards is given to organizations that historically have not
  received grants from the Federal government. Intermediaries must not require
  sub-award applicants to provide matching funds even if the applicants offer
  matching funds in their applications. Intermediaries must not require sub-award
  applicants to have 501 (c) (3) status or to identify a sponsoring organization with
  501 (c) (3) status; Organizations that partner with an intermediary to deliver
  technical assistance or provide a cost-sharing fund for the proposed project are
  not to be eligible for sub-awards, unless approved by the Administration for
  Children and families; Sub-awards should not be used to assist organizations in
  differing stages of development. Sub-awards may also be provided to promising
  organizations to expand the reach of existing programs; Sub-awards must not be
  used to provide direct services, but rather improve the sub-awardee's efficiency
  and capacity. Organizations that receive the Targeted Capacity Building funds
  (minigrants) are able to use the funds to improve their organization or
  program(s) in a sustainable way by increasing effectiveness and sustainability,
  enhancing their ability to provide social services, expanding their organization,
  diversifying funding sources, and emulating model programs and best practices.
  They must use the awards to increase efficiency and capacity; therefore, the
  awards cannot be used to augment or supplant direct service delivery funds.
  Organizations that receive a Communities Empowering Youth (CEY) program
  grant award work to build their own capacity, the capacity of their collaborating
  partners, and the capacity of the community collaboration as a whole in order to
  improve services to youth. CEY grantees assist their collaborating partners
  through technical assistance and training in four critical areas: 1) leadership
  development, 2) organizational development, 3) program development, and 4)
  community engagement. The Office of Community Services (OCS) will not fund
  any project, where the role of the applicant is primarily to serve as a conduit for
  funds to organizations other than the applicant. The applicant must have a
  substantive role in the implementation of the project for which funding is
  requested. This prohibition does not bar the
                                                                                   1225
