  makingofsub-grantsorsub-contractingfor specific services or activities needed to      
  conduct the project. CCF monies shall not be used to support inherently               
  religious practices such as religious instruction, worship, or proselytization.       
  Grant or sub-award recipients, therefore, may not and will not be selected based      
  on religious criteria. Neutral, non- religious criteria that neither favor nor        
  disfavor religion must be employed in a selection of a grantee and sub-award          
  recipients.                                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  (Intermediaries): State governments, county governments, city or township             
  governments, public and State-controlled institutions of higher education,            
  Indian/Native American Tribal governments (Federally recognized), non-profits         
  with 501(c)(3) IRS status (other than institutions of higher education), non-         
  profits without 501(c)(3)IRS status (other than institutions of higher education),    
  private institution of higher education, for profit organizations (other than small   
  businesses), small businesses, special district government, and faith-based and       
  community organizations that meet the statutory eligibility requirements.             
  Application Eligibility (Minigrants): Indian/Native American Tribal                   
  governments (Federally recognized), Indian/Native American Tribal                     
  organizations (other than Federally recognized), non-profits with 501(c)(3) IRS       
  status (other than institution of higher education), non-profits without 501(c)(3)    
  IRS status (other than institutions of higher education), and faith-based and         
  community organizations that meet the statutory eligibility requirements are          
  eligible to apply under this announcement. Application Eligibility (CEY); public      
  and State-controlled institutions of higher education, Indian/Native American         
  Tribal governments (Federally recognized), Indian/Native American Tribal              
  organizations (other than Federally recognized), non-profits with 501(c)(3) IRS       
  status (other than institutions of higher education), non-profits without 501(c)(3)   
  IRS status (other than institution of higher education), private institutions of      
  higher education, for non-profit organizations (other than small businesses),         
  small business, and faith-based and community organizations that meet the             
  statutory eligibility requirements.                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Believed to be in the public's interest to broaden Federal efforts to work with       
  faith-based and community organizations, the Compassion Capital Fund will             
  assist in the effort to enhance and expand the participation of faith-based and       
  community groups serving those in need. Intermediary organizations awarded            
  under this program will serve as partners to both the Federal government and the      
  faith-based and community organizations that they assist. The intermediaries          
  will represent a diverse set of affiliations, and will assist community-level         
  organizations that have a range of service goals, target populations, affiliations,   
  and beliefs. The Targeted Capacity Building program will benefit faith-based          
  and community organizations that provide services in one of the social service        
  priority areas. The Communities Empowering Youth program will benefit                 
  collaborations of faith-based and/or community partners in order to enable them       
  to better meet the needs of America's disadvantaged youth.                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Any nonprofit agency must provide proof of its nonprofit status through one of        
  the following: a) A reference to the applicant organization's listing in the Internal 
  revenue Service's (IRS) most recent list of tax-exempt organizations described in     
  the IRS code. b) A copy of a currently valid IRS tax exemption certificate c) A       
  statement from a State taxing body, State Attorney General, or other appropriate      
  State official certifying that he applicant organization has a nonprofit status and   
  that none of the net earnings accrue to any private shareholders or individuals. d)   
  A certified copy of the organization's certificate of incorporation or similar        
  document that clearly establishes nonprofit status. e) Any of the items in the        
  subparagraphs immediately above for a State or national parent organization and       
  a statement signed by the parent organization that the applicant organization if      
  its local nonprofit affiliate. Applicants for CCF programs must also provide the      
  following forms: SF 424, SF 424A, SF 424B, certification regarding lobbying           
  and associated disclosure of lobbying activities (SF LLL), and environmental          
  tobacco smoke certification. Private nonprofit organizations are encouraged to        
  submit with their applications the additional survey located under Grant Related      
  Documents and Forms titled Survey for Private, Nonprofit Grant Applicants.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental             
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official        
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information    
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the   
  State has selected the program for review.                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  The application must be double-spaced and single-spaced on 8-1/2 x 11 plain           
  white paper, with 1 inch margins on all sides. The application must use Times         
  New Roman 12 point font or Arial 12 point font. All pages of the application          
  (including appendices, resumes, charts, references/footnotes, tables, maps and        
  exhibits) must be sequentially numbered. Each application may include only one        
  proposed project. For the intermediary applications, the Table of Contents must       
  not exceed one page. The Project Abstract must not exceed one page. The               
  project Narrative must not exceed 25 pages. Pages submitted beyond the first 25       
  in the application's Project Narrative section will not be considered during the      
  panel review. The Appendix must not exceed 20 pages. The Appendix includes

1226                                                                              11-08

  the sample assessment tool(s) to be used to assist organizations served in
  identifying organizational needs in the five critical capacity building areas, and
  any other additional supporting documentation. The Budget, Narrative Budget
  Justification, Standard Forms for Assurances, Certifications, Disclosures, and
  cost-share letters are not included in the Project Narrative and Appendix page
  limitations. Applicants should not send pamphlets, brochures, or other printed
  material along with their applicants. These materials, if submitted, will no be
  considered in the review process. In addition, applicants should not submit any
  additional letters of endorsement beyond any that may be required. The project
  description should include all the information requirements described in the
  specific evaluation criteria outlined in the program announcement. In addition,
  the applicant needs to complete all the standard forms required for making
  applications for awards under this announcement. Applicants requesting
  financial assistance for non-construction projects must file the Standard Form
  424B, Assurances: Non-Construction Programs. Applicants must sign and return
  the Standard Form 424B with their applications. Applicants must disclose
  lobbying activities on the Standard Form LLL when applying for an award in
  excess of $100,000. Applicants must sign and return the certification with their
  applications. They must also fill out Standard Forms 424 and 424A and the
  associated certifications and assurances based on the instructions on the forms.
  Private, non-profit organizations are encouraged to submit with their
  applications the survey located under Grant Related Documents and Firms titled
  Survey for Private, Nonprofit Grant Applicants. For the minigrant applications,
  the Table of Contents must not exceed one page. The Project Narrative must not
  exceed nine pages. Pages submitted beyond the first nine pages in the Project
  Narrative section will be removed prior to panel review. The Appendix must not
  exceed five pages. Pages submitted beyond the first five in the Appendix section
  will not be considered during the panel review. The Appendix includes any
  additional supporting documentation. The Budget, Narrative Budget
  Justification, Standard Forms for Assurances, Certifications, and Disclosures are
  not included in the Project Narrative and Appendix page limitations. Applicants
  should not send pamphlets, brochures, or other printed material along with their
  applications. These materials, if submitted, will not be considered during the
  review process. The project description should include all the information
  requirements described in the specific evaluation criteria outlined in the program
  announcement. In addition, the applicant needs to complete all the standard
  forms required for making applications for wards under this announcement.
  Applicants requesting financial assistance for non-construction projects must file
  the Standard Form 424B, Assurances: Non-Construction Programs. Applicants
  must sign and return the Standard Form 424B with their applications.
  Applicants must disclose lobbying activities on the Standard Form LLL when
  applyingforanawardinexcess of $100,000. Applicants must sign and return the
  certification with their applications. They must also fill out Standard Forms 424
  and 424A and the associated certifications and assurances based on the
  instructions on the forms. Private, nonprofit organizations are encouraged to
  submit with their applications the survey located under Grant Related
  Documents and Firms titled Survey for Private, Nonprofit Grant Applicants. For
  the CEY applications, the Project Abstract must not exceed one page. The Table
  of Contents must not exceed one page. The Project Narrative must not exceed 25
  pages. Pages submitted beyond the first 25 in the application's Project Narrarive
  section will be removed prior to panel review. The Appendix must not exceed
  50 pages. The Appendix includes the sample assessment tool(s) the applicant
  will used to assist organizations in identifying organizational needs in the four
  critical areas of capacity building, support and commitment letters, and any
  other additional supporting documentation. The Budget, Narrative Budget
  Justification, Standard Forms for Assurances, Certifications, and Disclosures are
  not included in the Project Narrative and Appendix page limitations. Applicants
  should not send pamphlets, brochures, or other printed material along with their
  applications. These materials, if submitted, will be included in the review
  process. In addition, applicants should not submit any additional letters of
  endoresement beyond any that may be required. The project description should
  include all the information requrements described in the specific evaluation
  criteria outlined in the program announcement. In addition, the applicant needs
  to complete all the standard forms required for making applications for wards
  under this announcement. Applicants requesting financial assistance for non-
  construction projects must file the Standard Form 424B, Assurances: Non-
  Construction Programs. Applicants must sign and return the Standard Form
  424B with their applications. Applicants must disclose lobbying activities on the
  Standard Form LLL when applying for an award in excess of $100,000.
  Applicants must sign and return the certification with their applications. They
  must also fill out Standard Forms 424 and 424A and the associated certifications
  and assurances based on the instructions on the forms. Private, nonprofit
  organizations are encouraged to submit with their applications the survey located
  under Grant Related Documents and Firms titled Survey for Private, Nonprofit
  Grant Applicants.
Award Procedure:
  Applications received by the due date will be reviewed and scored competitively.
   Experts in the field, generally persons from outside the Federal government, will
  use the evaluation criteria listed in Part V of the Program Announcement to
