  review and score the applications. The results of the review will be a primary    
  factor in making funding decisions. ACF may also solicit comments from            
  Regional Office staff and other Federal agencies. ACF may consider a variety of   
  factors in addition to the review criteria identified above, including geographic 
  diversity/coverage and types of applicant organizations, in order to ensure that  
  the interests of the Federal Government are met in making the final selections.   
  Furthermore, ACF may limit the number of awards made to the same or               
  affiliated organizations although they would service different geographic areas.  
  The successful applicants will be notified through issuance of a Financial        
  Assistance Award document which sets forth the amount of funds granted, the       
  terms and conditions of the grant, the budget period for which initial support    
  will be given, the nonfederal share to be provided, and the total project period  
  for which support is contemplated. The Financial Assistance Award will be         
  signed by the Grants Officer.                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Deadlines for grants are announced in www.grants.gov, as part of the solicitation 
  of applicants.                                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 90 days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  ACF may extend application deadlines when circumstances such as acts of God       
  (floods, hurricanes, etc.) occur, or when there are widespread disruption of mail 
  service. Determinations to extend or waive deadline requirements rest with the    
  Chief Grants Management Officer.                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  For the Intermediary Demonstration Program, grantees must provide at least 20     
  percent of the total approved cost of the project. The total approved cost of the 
  project is the sum of the ACF share and the nonfederal share. The nonfederal      
  share may be met by cash or in-kind contributions, although applicants are        
  encouraged to meet their match requirements through cash contributions.           
  Grantees will be held accountable for commitments of nonfederal resources even    
  if over the amount of the required match. Failure to provide the amount will      
  result in disallowance of Federal funds. Applications that fail to include the    
  required amount of cost-sharing will be considered non-responsive and will not    
  be eligible for funding. There are no cost sharing or matching requirements for   
  the Targeted Capacity-Building or the Communities Empowering Youth                
  programs.                                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  The Demonstration and CEY programs award grants for project periods of up to      
  three years. Awards, however, are made on a competitive basis, for a one-year     
  budget period. Applications for continuation grants funded under these awards     
  beyond the one-year budget period but within the three-year project period are    
  entertained in subsequent years on a noncompetitive basis, subject to availability
  of funds, satisfactory progress of the grantee and a determination that continued 
  funding is in the best interest of the government. Awards for the Targeted        
  Capacity-Building Program are for a 12-month budget period.                       
Reports:                                                                            
  CCF recipients are required to submit semi-annual program progress reports;       
  grantees are also required to submit semi-annual financial status reports using   
  the required standard form (SF-269) which is located on the Internet at:          
  http://forms.psc.gov/forms/sf/SF-269.pdf. A suggested format for the program      
  progress report is sent to all grantees after the awards are made. Intermediaries 
  must also submit plans and procedures for the issuance of sub-awards within 90    
  days of the receipt of an award.                                                  
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  24, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,      
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from the Federal audit requirements for that year, except as    
  noted in Circular No. A-133.                                                      
Records:                                                                            
  CCF complies with 74.50 Purpose of reports and records, 74.51 Monitoring and      
  reporting program performance and 74.52 Financial reporting of the Code of        
  Federal Regulations.                                                              
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-1536-0-1-506.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $64,300,000; FY 08 $52,700,000; and FY 09 est $75,000,000.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Demonstration, $500,000 per year; CEY, $250,000 per year; Minigrant,              
  $50,000.                                                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In FY 2007, OCS awarded 387 CCF grants. Congress did not allocate funding         
  for new CCF grant awards for FY 2008; however, OCS will award

  approximately 168 continuation grants FY 2008. It is estimated that OCS will

  award approximately 371 grants in FY 2009.



                                                                               11-08
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  Program Manager, Office of Community Services (OCS), Administration for
  Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, 370 L'Enfant
  Promenade, 5th Floor West, Washington, DC 20447. Contact: Thom Campbell,
  Telephone: (202) 401-5483 (office); (202) 401-4694 (fax);
  thom.campbell@acf.hhs.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Manager, Office of Community Services (OCS), Administration for
  Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, 370 L'Enfant
  Promenade,5th Floor West, Washington, DC 20447. Contact: Thom Campbell
  (202) 401-5483 (office); (202) 401-4694 (fax); thom.campbell@acf.hhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/ccf
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The CCF Demonstration program has funded intermediary organizations that
  serve as a bridge between the Federal government and the faith-based and
  community organizations that the program is designed to assist. Intermediary
  organizations provide two services to faith-based and community organizations:
  training and technical assistance and capacity-building sub-awards. The CCF
  Targeted Capacity Building program has funded faith-based and community
  organizations with one time, $50,000 awards to increase their capacity to serve
  targeted social service priority areas. The CCF Communities Empowering Youth
  program provides grants to strengthen broad-based collaborative community
  coalitions that are working to reduce gang involvement, youth violence, and
  child abuse and neglect and to foster positive youth development.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria used for selecting Intermediary Organizations: Intermediary
  organizations are evaluated on the following criteria: approach, objectives and
  need for assistance, organizational profiles, and budget and budget justification.
  The technical assistance strategy, sub-award strategy, and geographic location
  are all factors in evaluating the approach of the applicant. The needs of faith-
  based and community organizations to be served and the needs of communities
  served are factors for evaluating the objectives and need for assistance of the
  applicant. The staff and position data and past experience are factors used to
  evaluate the organizational profile of the applicant. Applicants will be evaluated
  under the budget and budget justification criteria on the extent to which they
  include a budget that is clear, easy to understand, and provides a detailed
  justification for the amount requested. Criteria used for selecting Targeted
  Capacity Building grant recipients: Minigrant applications are evaluated on the
  following criteria: approach, organizational profiles, results or benefits expected,
  objectives and need for assistance, and budget and budget justification. The
  factors considered under the approach criterion are the capacity-building
  strategy and the geographic location. Under the organizational profile criterion,
  the staff and position data and past experience working in priority social service
  area(s) are the two factors used for evaluation. Under the results and benefits
  expected criterion, applicants are evaluated on the extent to which the specific
  goals of the project and the results and benefits proposed by the applicant are
  reasonable and likely, quantified, and clearly linked to and supported by the
  proposed capacity-building approach. Under the objectives and need for
  assistance criterion, applications are evaluated on the extent to which the
  objectives of the proposed project are clearly stated and shown to address the
  needs of the organization. Under the budgets and budget justification criterion,
  applications are evaluated based on the extent to which they include a budget
  that is clear, easy to understand, and that provides a detailed justification for the
  amount requested. Criteria used for selecting Communities Empowering Youth
  grant recipients: CEY applicants are evaluated on the following criteria: project
  summary/abstract, objectives and need for assistance, approach, results or
  benefits expected, organizational profiles, and budget and budget justification.
  the factors considered under the objectives and need for assistance criterion are
  service area and needs of the service area, applicant's capacity building needs,
  and need of partnering faith-based and/or community organizations. The factors
  considered under the approach criterion are capacity building strategy,
  training/technical assistance strategy, and financial assistance strategy. Under
  the results or benefits expected criterion applications are evaluated on the extent
  to which the applicant identifies the results or benefits expected to be derived
  from project activities and describes how the proposed project will affect the
  sustainability of the lead organization, its collaborating faith-based and/or
  community partners, and the community collaboration as a whole. The factors
  considered under the organizational profiles criterion are past experience,
  strength of partnerships with collaboration members, and organizational
  capability and staffing. The factors considered under the budget and budget
  justification criterion are a project budget that is clear and easy to understand
  and the inclusion in the application of the last two years' operating budgets.
                                                                                    1227
