93.010 COMMUNITY-BASED ABSTINENCE EDUCATION                                            
(CBAE)                                                                                 
                                                                                       
   (CBAE)                                                                              
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Title XI, Section 1110 of the Social Security Act (using the definitions contained   
  in Title V, Section 510(b)(2)of the Act).                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide funding to public and private institutions for community-based            
  abstinence education project grants. The project grant's objective is to increase    
  the proportion of youth that remain abstinent until marriage and decrease the        
  rate of births to unmarried teenage girls. To meet these objectives, grantees        
  must incorporate the abstinence education definitions identified under (A)           
  through (H) in Section 510(b)(2) of the Social Security Act.                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  For the purpose of Section 510, the term "Abstinence Education" means an             
  educational or motivational program which (a) has as its exclusive purpose,          
  teaching the social, psychological, and health gains to be realized by abstaining    
  from sexual activity; (b) teaches abstinence from sexual activity outside            
  marriage as the expected standard for all school age children; (c) teaches that      
  abstinence from sexual activity is the only certain way to avoid out-of-wedlock      
  pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, and other associated health problems;      
  (d) teaches that a mutually faithful monogamous relationship in context of           
  marriage is the expected standard of human sexual activity; (e) teaches that         
  sexual activity outside of the context of marriage is likely to have harmful         
  psychological and physical effects; (f) teaches that bearing children out of         
                                                                                       
  wedlock is likely to have harmful consequences for that child, the child's

                                                                                       
  parents, and society; (g) teaches young people how to reject sexual advances and

                                                                                       
  how alcohol and drug use increases vulnerability to sexual advances; and (h)

                                                                                       
  teaches the importance of attaining self-sufficiency before engaging in sexual

                                                                                       
  activity.

                                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  Public and private agencies responsible for the administration (or supervision of

                                                                                       
  the administration) of projects under Section 1110 of the Social Security Act

                                                                                       
  that teach abstinence, using the definitions contained in Section 510(b)(2) of the

                                                                                       
  Act, to adolescents ages 12 through 18. Eligible applicants include: State

                                                                                       
  governments; County governments; City or Township governments; independent

                                                                                       
  school districts; private institutions of higher education; special district

                                                                                       
  governments; public and State-controlled institutions of higher education;

                                                                                       
  Native American Tribal governments (Federally recognized); public housing

                                                                                       
  authorities/Indian housing authorities; Native American Tribal organizations

                                                                                       
  (other than Federally recognized Tribal governments); non-profits having a

                                                                                       
  501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of higher education; non-

                                                                                       
  profits that do not have a 501(c)(3) status with the IRS, other than institutions of 
  higher education; for-profit organizations other than small businesses; and, small   
  businesses. Faith-based and community organizations that meet the statutory          
  eligibility requirements are eligible to apply under this announcement. Sex          
  education programs that promote the use of contraceptives are not eligible for       
  funding under this program.                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Adolescents ages 12 through 18.                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Nonprofit organizations must submit proof of nonprofit status. Applicable costs      
  and administrative procedures will be determined in accordance with Parts 74         
  and 92 of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

Preapplication Coordination:

  Consultation or assistance is available from the Family and Youth Services           
  Bureau (FYSB), Administration for Children and Families, Department of               
  Health and Human Services. The standard application forms furnished by               
  DHHS and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program.

  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  of the process that the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if 
  the State has selected the program for review.                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application for Federal Assistance, Standard Form 424 must be submitted.             
  Specific instructions are published via the Internet under the Form section at the   
  following website address: http://www.acf.hhs.gov/grants.                            
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  All applications are reviewed by a panel of nonfederal experts that assigns scores   
  according to the published criteria. The panel's scores are factored into the        
  recommendations for funding. Scores and recommendations are reviewed by the          
  Associate Commissioner of the Family and Youth Services Bureau.                      


1228                                                                             11-08

  Recommendations are made to the ACYF Commissioner, who makes the final
  funding decisions.
Deadlines:
  As specified in the announcement or application instructions.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Awards are generally made for a 5-year project period, funding for the second
  through fifth year is dependent upon satisfactory performance and availability of
  funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded competitively for project periods of up to 5 years.
Reports:
  Financial and program reports are due semi-annually. A final report is due 90
  days after conclusion of project period.
Audits:
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.
Records:
  All financial records are to be maintained 3 years after termination of the project
  or until audit is completed, whichever occurs first.
Account Identification:
  75-1536-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $91,996,000; FY 08 $91,996,000; and FY 09 est $117,054,000.
  (Contracts) FY 07 $5,988,000; FY 08 $4,789,000; and FY 09 est $7,384,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $250,000 to $600,000; $425,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, 171 grants were awarded and in FY 2008, 188 grants will be
  awarded. It is anticipated that 198 grants will be awarded in FY 2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for available literature. You may also
  get information on the Family and Youth Services Bureau website at the
  following address: http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/fysb under the "Policy and
  Legislative Documents" link.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Central Office Contacts and Program Contact: Scott T. Riggins, U.S.
  Department of Health and Human Services; Family and Youth Services Bureau;
  1250 Maryland Ave., SW, Washington, DC 20024. Grants Management,
  Financial Management Specialist; U.S. Department of Health and Human
  Services, Administration for Children and Families, Office of Administration;
  Office of Grants Management, Division of Discretionary Grants, 370 L'Enfant
  Promenade, SW, Washington, DC 20447.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/fysb.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.235, Abstinence Education Program; 93.111, Adolescent Family Life
  Research Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of funded projects may be requested through the Family and Youth
  Services Bureau.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated based upon the criteria published in the Funding
  Opportunity Announcement located on the following website address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/grants/grants_fysb.html.
93.012 IMPROVING, ENHANCING, AND EVALUATING
OUTCOMES OF COMPREHENSIVE HEART HEALTH
CARE PROGRAMS FOR HIGH-RISK WOMEN
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 1703(a).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide funding to improve and enhance existing women's heart health care
  programs in hospitals, clinics, and/or health centers and to enable the programs
  to track and evaluate outcome data. Each grantee shall enhance an existing
  women's heart health care program so that it provides a continuum of heart
  health care services through the integration of the following five interrelated
  components: Education and Awareness, Screening and Risk Assessment,
  Diagnostic Testing and Treatment, Lifestyle Modification and Rehabilitation,
  and Tracking and Evaluation. Grantees shall also target high-risk women in at
