  least one of the following groups: women aged 60 years or older, racial and         
  ethnic minority women, and/or women who live in rural communities. These            
  programs will offer comprehensive heart health care services that are women-        
  centered, culturally competent, multi-disciplinary, continuous and integrated.      
  The goal of these programs will be to reduce heart disease mortality and            
  morbidity among women and to increase the number of high-risk women who             
  receive quality heart health care, including education, prevention, screening,      
  diagnosis, treatment and rehabilitation. These programs will be demonstration       
  projects; as such, they will provide the evidence necessary to evaluate whether     
  comprehensive women's heart health care programs are effective in improving         
  heart disease outcomes in high-risk women.                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds may be used to cover costs of: personnel; consultants; grant related office   
  supplies and software; grant related travel (domestic only); educational,           
  promotional and evaluation materials; and other grant related costs. Funds          
  should be used to strengthen infrastructure, track and evaluate outcome data,       
  conduct community outreach and educational activities, improve the                  
  coordination and continuity of care, and reduce fragmentation of heart health       
  care services that already exist within the health care facility. For example, funds
  can be used to hire a program coordinator, set up a data tracking system, acquire   
  or produce educational materials, etc. Funds shall not be used to fund direct       
  health care services or equipment for patients (e.g. diagnostic tests, screening    
  equipment, treatment, etc.). Also, funds may not be used for: building              
  alterations or renovations, construction, screening supplies or equipment,          
  incentives and prizes, food, fund raising activities, political education and       
  lobbying, and other activities that are not grant related.                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Applicants must be a public or private hospital, clinic, or health center providing 
  heart health care services to women. Academic health centers and state, county,     
  and local health departments are eligible for funding under this announcement.      
  Programs that will be implemented in medically underserved areas, enterprise        
  communities, and empowerment zones as well as community health centers              
  funded under Section 330 of the Public Health Service Act are encouraged to         
  apply. Native American tribal organizations, faith-based organizations, and         
  organizations serving rural or frontier communities are also encouraged to apply.   
   In order to apply for the award, applicants must already have a basic women's      
  heart health care program in place. Applicants must also have the framework for     
  three of the five components described in the funding opportunity description       
  (Education and Awareness, Screening and Risk Assessment, Diagnostic Testing         
  and Treatment, Lifestyle Modification and Rehabilitation, Tracking and              
  Evaluation) already in place.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Underserved women will benefit.                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372 that           
  allows States the option of setting up a system for reviewing applications from     
  within their States for assistance under certain Federal programs. The              
  application kit to be made available under this notice will contain a listing of    
  States that have chosen to set up a review system and will include a State Single   
  Point of Contact (SPOC) in the State for review. Applicants (other than             
  federally recognized Indian tribes) should contact their SPOCs as early as          
  possible to alert them to the prospective applications and receive any necessary    
  instructions on the State process. For proposed projects serving more than one      
  State, the applicant is advised to contact the SPOC in each affected State. A       
  complete list of SPOCs may be found at the following web site:                      
  www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/spoc.html The due date for State process              
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office on            
  Women's Health does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its           
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date. (See           
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs," Executive Order 12372, and          
  45 CFR Part 100 for a description of the review process and requirements.)          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Application kits may be requested by calling (240) 453-8822 or writing to: Ms.      
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office         
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD                
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,           
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,            
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be          
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format          
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office       
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the            
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from      
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications         
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS         
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review     
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be   


                                                                                 11-08
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS e-Grants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS e-Grants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline will be returned without review or
  comment. If funding is requested in an amount greater than the ceiling of the
  award range ($150,000 for a 12-month budget period), the application will be
  considered nonresponsive and will not be entered into the review process. The
  application will be returned with notification that it did not meet the submission
  requirements. Applicants that are judged to be in compliance will be notified by
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management. Accepted applications will be
  reviewed for technical merit in accordance with DHHS policies. Applications
  will be evaluated by a technical review panel composed of experts in the fields
  of program management, heart disease and health care, community outreach and
  health education, and community-based research. Consideration for award will
  be given to applicants that best demonstrate the potential to design a program
  that achieves the program goals stated in this announcement. The federal
  government may conduct pre-award site visits of applicants with scores in the
  funding range prior to final selection. Funding decisions will be made by the
  DHHS Office on Women's Health (OWH), and will take into consideration the
  recommendations and ratings of the review panel, pre-award site visits, program
  needs, geographic location, and stated preferences. To increase the likelihood of
  funding organizations serving rural or frontier communities and/or Native
  American tribal organizations, OWH will award 5 bonus points to applicants
  meeting these criteria.
Deadlines:
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will
  be returned to the applicant unread.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 50 days from the application deadline date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The award period is one year. Funds will be released on a monthly basis in
  twelve (12) equal increments.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly progress reports, a final report, and a
  final Financial Status Report in the format established by the DHHS Office on
  Women's Health (OWH), in accordance with provisions of the general
  regulations which apply under "Monitoring and Reporting Program
  Performance," 45 CFR parts 74 and 92. The purpose of the quarterly and final
  reports is to provide accurate and timely program information to program
  managers and to respond to Congressional, Departmental, and public requests
  for information about the program. An original and two copies of the quarterly
  progress reports must be submitted by December 2, March 2, and June 2. A
  draft of the final report must be submitted by July 24. The report should
  describe all project activities for the entire year and include an analysis of the
  tracking and evaluation data. OWH will review the draft. Suggested revisions
  will be discussed individually during a conference call with each grantee. The
  mutually agreed upon revisions must be incorporated into the final report by the
  end date of the award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  30, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.
Account Identification:
  75-0120-0-1-551.
                                                                                 1229
