Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 not available; FY 08 not available; and FY 09 est not reported.      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  up to $150,000 (direct and indirect costs).                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the    
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS            
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994). 45 CFR parts 74, 92        
  and 100 apply.                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Questions regarding programmatic information and/or requests for technical          
  assistance in the preparation of the "Project Narrative" should be directed to: Dr. 
  Suzanne Haynes, Senior Science Advisor, Office on Women's Health, US                
  Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue, SW,               
  Rm. 719E, Washington, DC 20201, E-mail: shaynes@osophs.dhhs.gov. For                
  application kits and information on budget and business aspects, please contact:    
  Ms. Karen Campbell, Director, OPHS Office of Grants Management, 1101                
  Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20857, Telephone: (240) 453-              
  8822, E-mail: kcampbell@osophs.dhhs.gov.                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.4woman.gov/owh .                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.290, National Community Centers of Excellence in Women's Health.                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applications will be reviewed using the following criteria: (A) The Program Plan

                                                                                      
  (30 points) evaluated by rating the applicant's approach to accomplishing each      
  of the requirements identified in the funding opportunity description of the        
  federal register notice; (B) The Statement of Need (20 points) evaluated by         
  rating the applicant's demonstrated need for improving, enhancing, and              
  evaluating outcomes of the women's heart health care program; (C) The               
  Experience and Commitment of Key Personnel (20 points) evaluated by rating          
  the qualifications of key personnel proposed to perform the work and the amount     
  of effort estimated for each person; (D) The Management Plan (20 points)            
  evaluated by rating the effectiveness of the applicant's staffing, scheduling, and  
  logistics plans and the applicant's ability to achieve the program goals within the 
  time frames set-forth. (E) Past Performance (10 points) evaluated by considering    
  the number, size, complexity, and success of similar projects that the applicant    
  has previously successfully implemented. Accepted applications will be              
  reviewed for technical merit in accordance with DHHS policies. Applications         
  will be evaluated by a technical review panel composed of experts in the fields     
  of program management, heart disease and health care, community outreach and        
  health education, and community-based research. Consideration for award will        
  be given to applicants that best demonstrate the potential to design a program      
  that achieves the program goals. The federal government may conduct pre-            
  award site visits of applicants with scores in the funding range prior to final     
  selection. Funding decisions will be made by the DHHS Office on Women's             
  Health (OWH), and will take into consideration the recommendations and              
  ratings of the review panel, pre-award site visits, program needs, geographic       
  location, and stated preferences. To increase the likelihood of funding             
  organizations serving rural or frontier communities and/or Native American          
  tribal organizations, OWH will award 5 bonus points to applicants meeting these     
  criteria.                                                                           
                                                                                      
93.013 AMBASSADORS FOR CHANGE PROGRAM                                                 
                                                                                      
   (Ambassadors for Change Program)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, OFFICE OF THE

                                                                                      
  SECRETARY, OFFICE OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SCIENCE, OFFICE ON

                                                                                      
  WOMAN'S HEALTH

                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  42 U.S.C. 300u-2(a)(1), 300u-3, and 300u-6(e)

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

  To provide recognition and funding to the graduating National Centers of            
  Excellence in Women's Health and the National Community Centers of                  
  Excellence in Women's Health programs to enhance their women's health               
  program through the integration of these components: (1) leadership                 
                                                                                      
  development for women, (2) training for lay, allied health, and professional

                                                                                      
  health care providers, (3) public education and outreach with special emphasis

                                                                                      
  on outreach to minority women, (4) comprehensive health service delivery that

                                                                                      
  includes gender and age-appropriate preventive services and allied health

                                                                                      
  professionals as members of the comprehensive care team, and (5) basic science,

                                                                                      
  clinical and community-based research. In addition, the community centers

                                                                                      


1230                                                                            11-08

  must replicate their National Community Center of Excellence in Women's
  Health (CCOE) model in another community.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A majority of the funds must be used to support staff (direct labor) and efforts
  aimed at coordinating and integrating the components of the program and travel
  to the two Annual Center Director's Meetings per year. The senior person
  responsible for the program shall continue to devote the maximum effort needed
  to maintain program excellence. Funds may also be used for program related
  travel. Funds may not be used for construction, building alterations, equipment,
  printing, food, medical treatment, or renovations. All budget requests must be
  justified fully in terms of the proposed goals and objectives and include an
  itemized computational explanation/breakout of how costs were determined.
  The CoE and CCOE Center Directors meet twice a year. A portion of these
  meetings will be devoted to the Ambassadors for Change program. The budget
  should include a request for funds to pay for the travel, lodging, and meals for
  the two Center Directors' meetings. The first meeting is usually held between
  mid-November and mid-December and the second Center Director's meeting is
  usually held in May. CCOE Center Directors are encouraged to bring the person
  with primary responsibility for the day-to-day management of the Ambassador
  for Change program to these meetings and should include their travel cost in the
  budget.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are OWH previously funded National Centers of Excellence
  in Women's Health (CoE) and previously funded National Community Centers
  of Excellence in Women's Health (CCOE) programs whose funding has ended
  and are without remaining option years.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Underserved women will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  At a minimum, each application for a cooperative agreement grant funded under
  this announcement must: -Present a plan to continue integrating all components
  of the program. The CCOEs are not required to continue the replication
  component but preference will be given to programs that plan to continue to
  provide technical assistance to their replication site. Additionally, CCOEs that
  actively participate in the Research Coordinating Center (RCC) projects will be
  considered as fulfilling the requirements for the research component. A
  statement of willingness to participate in the RCC activities must be included in
  the application, if applicable. -Discuss a plan to continue the involvement of the
  CoE or CCOE advisory board and their role as it relates to the Ambassadors for
  Change program. -Be a sustainable organization capable of providing
  coordinated and integrated women's health services in the targeted community.
  The applicant will need to define the components of comprehensive, multi-
  disciplinary care, demonstrate that they are culturally, linguistically, and gender
  and age appropriate, and show that they have a clear and sustainable framework
  for providing those services. -Present a plan to provide support, advice, and
  guidance to CoEs, CCOEs, and the Demonstration CoEs, through a variety of
  training opportunities, such as the ELAM program, promotoras trainings,
  discussions at Center Directors, meetings, etc. These activities may be
  supported by outside funding or sponsors in keeping with the government
  partnership ethics guidance. Describe in detail plans for the local process,
  impact, and outcome evaluation of the program and how information obtained
  from the evaluation will be used to enhance the program. The applicant must
  also indicate their willingness to participate in a national evaluation of the
  program to be conducted under the leadership of the OWH contractor.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. The application kit to be made
  available under this notice will contain a listing of States that have chosen to set
  up a review system and will include a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in
  the State for review. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribes)
  should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective
  applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For
  proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to
  contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office on
  Women's Health does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling (240) 453-8822 or writing to: Ms.
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
