  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office      
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the           
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from     
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications        
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS        
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review    
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be  
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant       
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the           
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic    
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any          
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,   
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,     
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the      
  OPHS eGrants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.               
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS eGrants Web site,           
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .                                                  
                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be            
                                                                                     
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline or are applicants that have not been a

                                                                                     
  CCOE or a CoE program will be returned without review or comment. The

                                                                                     
  application will be returned with notification that it did not meet the submission

                                                                                     
  requirements. Applicants that are judged to be in compliance will be notified by

                                                                                     
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management. Accepted applications will be

                                                                                     
  reviewed for technical merit in accordance with DHHS policies. Applications

                                                                                     
  will be evaluated by a technical review panel composed of experts in the fields

                                                                                     
  of program management, heart disease and health care, community outreach and

                                                                                     
  health education, and community-based research. Consideration for award will

                                                                                     
  be given to applicants that best demonstrate the potential to design a program

                                                                                     
  that achieves the program goals stated in this announcement. The federal

                                                                                     
  government may conduct pre-award site visits of applicants with scores in the

                                                                                     
  funding range prior to final selection. Funding decisions will be made by the

                                                                                     
  DHHS Office on Women's Health (OWH), and will take into consideration the

                                                                                     
  recommendations and ratings of the review panel, pre-award site visits, program

                                                                                     
  needs, geographic location, and stated preferences.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established

                                                                                     
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will

                                                                                     
  be returned to the applicant unread.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  Approximately 90 days from the application deadline date.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Support may be requested for a total project period not to exceed 3 years.         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None - Cost sharing, matching funds, and cost participation is not a requirement   
  of this grant.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Support may be requested for a total project period not to exceed 3 years. Non-    
  competing continuation awards of up to $25,000 (CoEs)/$50,000 (CCOEs) will

  be made subject to satisfactory performance and availability of funds.             
Reports:

  Successful applicants will submit an annual technical report that includes a       
  detailed discussion of the process, impact, outcome evaluation of the

  Ambassador program and an annual Financial Status Report (SF-269) in               
  accordance with provisions of the general regulations which apply under            
  "Monitoring and Reporting Program Performance," 45 CFR parts74 and 92. An          
  original and two copies of the annual report must be submitted by August 15.       
  The annual report will serve as the non-competing continuation application and     
  must cover all activities for the entire budget year. Therefore, this report must  
  also include the budget request for the next grant year, with appropriate          
  justification, and signatures, and must include a completed OPHS-1 Form.           
                                                                                     
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June        
  30, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are          
                                                                                     
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government

                                                                                     
  officials.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other

                                                                                     
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer

                                                                                     
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         


                                                                               11-08 
  FY 07 est not reported; FY 08 est not reported; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $25,000 to $50,000; (including direct and indirect costs). This is a new program.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Fund six new AFC grantees.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994); 45 CFR 100 applies.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Women's Health Department of Health and Human Services 200
  Independence Avenue, SW Room 712E Washington, DC 20201.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.4woman.gov/owh .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.290, National Community Centers of Excellence in Women's Health.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None - New Program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Eligible applicants are OWH previously funded National Centers of Excellence
  in Women's Health (CoE) and previously funded National Community Centers
  of Excellence in Women's Health (CCOE) programs whose funding has ended
  and are without remaining option years. At a minimum, each application for a
  cooperative agreement grant funded under this announcement must: 1.) Present a
  plan to continue integrating all components of the program. The CCOEs are not
  required to continue the replication component but preference will be given to
  programs that plan to continue to provide technical assistance to their replication
  site. Additionally, CCOEs that actively participate in the Research Coordinating
  Center (RCC) projects will be considered as fulfilling the requirements for the
  research component. A statement of willingness to participate in the RCC
  activities must be included in the application, if applicable. 2.) Discuss a plan to
  continue the involvement of the CoE or CCOE advisory board and their role as it
  relates to the Ambassadors for Change program. 3.) Be a sustainable
  organization capable of providing coordinated and integrated womens health
  services in the targeted community. The applicant will need to define the
  components of comprehensive, multi-disciplinary care, demonstrate that they are
  culturally, linguistically, and gender and age appropriate, and show that they
  have a clear and sustainable framework for providing those services. 4.) Present
  a plan to provide support, advice, and guidance to CoEs, CCOEs, and the
  Demonstration CoEs, through a variety of training opportunities, such as the
  ELAM program, promotoras trainings, discussions at Center Directors' meetings,
  etc. These activities may be supported by outside funding or sponsors in
  keeping with the government partnership ethics guidance. 5.) Describe in detail
  plans for the local process, impact, and outcome evaluation of the program and
  how information obtained from the evaluation will be used to enhance the
  program. The applicant must also indicate their willingness to participate in a
  national evaluation of the program to be conducted under the leadership of the
  OWH contractor.
93.014 STEPS TO HEALTHIER GIRLS PROGRAM
   (Steps to Healthier Girls Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, OFFICE OF THE
  SECRETARY, OFFICE OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND SCIENCE, OFFICE ON
  WOMEN'S HEALTH
AUTHORIZATION:
  42 U.S.C. 300u-2(a)(1), 300u-6(e).
OBJECTIVES:
  The objectives of the Steps to Healthier Girls Program are to: 1)Increase the
  number of girls who engage regularly in moderate physical activity, preferably
  daily, for at least 60 minutes per day; 2) increase girls' knowledge of healthy
  nutrition and healthy weight and promote strategies for accomplishing these; 3)
  increase girls' knowledge about the ill health effects of tobacco and promote
  strategies for accomplishing these; and 4) increase girls' knowledge of the
  importance of a healthy environment and strategies to accomplish this.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to cover costs of: personnel; consultants; grant related office
  supplies and software; grant related travel (domestic only); educational,
  promotional and evaluation materials; and other grant related costs. Funds
  should be used to strengthen infrastructure, track and evaluate outcome data,
  conduct community outreach and educational activities, improve the
  coordination and continuity of care, and reduce fragmentation of heart health
  care services that already exist within the health care facility. For example, funds
  can be used to hire a program coordinator, set up a data tracking system, acquire
                                                                                   1231
