  or produce educational materials, etc. Funds shall not be used to fund direct        
  health care services or equipment for patients (e.g. diagnostic tests, screening     
  equipment, treatment, etc.). Also, funds may not be used for: building alterations   
  or renovations, construction, screening supplies or equipment, incentives and        
  prizes, food, fund raising activities, political education and lobbying, and other   
  activities that are not grant related.                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  The Girl Scouts of the USA is the eligible applicant for the Steps to Healthier      
  Girls program.                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  The Girl Scouts of the USA and selected Girl Scout Councils.                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental            
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review. The application kit to be made            
  available under this notice will contain a listing of States that have chosen to set 
  up a review system and will include a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in        
  the State for review. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribes)     
  should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective     
  applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For        
  proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to           
  contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process              
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office on             
  Women's Health does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its            
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date.                 
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applications must be prepared using Form OPHS-1 (Revised August 2004).               
  This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format at the following website:             
  http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . Questions regarding programmatic            
  information and/or requests for technical assistance in the preparation of grant     
  applications should be directed in writing to CAPT Rosa Myers, Regional              
  Women's Health Coordinator, DHHS Region III, at 150 S. Independence Mall             
  West, Suite 436, Philadelphia, PA 19106, e-mail: rmyers@osophs.dhhs.gov or to        
  Sandra Estepa, Regional Women's Health Coordinator, HHS Region II at 26              
  Federal Plaza, Room 3835, New York, NY 10278, e-mail:                                
  sestepa@osophs.dhhs.gov . Requests for application kits and completed                
  applications should be submitted to Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Grants       
  Management, Office of Public Health and Science, 1101 Wootton Parkway,               
  Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Technical assistance on budget and business          
  aspects of the application may also be obtained from the Office of Grants            
  Management, at (240) 453-8822.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be              
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline will be returned without comment.            
  Accepted applications will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with        
  PHS policies. Applications will be evaluated by a technical review panel             
  composed of experts. Funding decisions will be determined by the Region III,         
  Regional Womens Health Coordinator, Office on Women's Health and will take           
  into consideration the recommendations and ratings of the review panel;              
  program needs, stated preferences; geographic location; and recommendations of       
  the other DHHS Regional Women's Health Coordinators.                                 
                                                                                       
Deadlines:

  Please contact program office for application deadline.                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 60 days from the application deadline date.                            
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Cost sharing, matching funds, and cost participation is not a requirement of this    
  grant.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The award period is one year. Funds will be released on a monthly basis in           
  twelve (12) equal increments.                                                        
Reports:                                                                               
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly progress reports, a final report, and a    
  final Financial Status Report in the format established by the DHHS Office on        
  Women's Health (OWH), in accordance with provisions of the general                   
  regulations which apply under "Monitoring and Reporting Program

  Performance," 45 CFR parts 74 and 92. The purpose of the quarterly and final

                                                                                       
  reports is to provide accurate and timely program information to program

  managers and to respond to Congressional, Departmental, and public requests          
  for information about the program. An original and two copies of the quarterly

  progress reports must be submitted by December 2, March 2, and June 2. A draft       
  of the final report must be submitted by July 24. The report should describe all     


1232                                                                             11-08

  project activities for the entire year and include an analysis of the tracking and
  evaluation data. OWH will review the draft. Suggested revisions will be
  discussed individually during a conference call with each grantee. The mutually
  agreed upon revisions must be incorporated into the final report by the end date
  of the award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.
Account Identification:
  75-0120-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $60,000 (direct and indirect costs). This is a new program.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Increase the number of girls who engage regularly in moderate physical activity,
  preferably daily, for at least 60 minutes per day. Increase girls' knowledge of
  healthy nutrition and healthy weight and promote strategies for accomplishing
  these. Increase girls' knowledge about the ill health effects of tobacco and
  promote strategies for accomplishing these. Increase girls' knowledge of the
  importance of a healthy environment and strategies to accomplish this.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994); 45 CFR 100 applies.
Regional or Local Office:
  CAPT Rosa Myers, Regional Women's Health Coordinator, DHHS Region III, at
  150 S. Independence Mall West, Suite 436, Philadelphia, PA 19106, e-mail:
  rmyers@osophs.dhhs.gov . Sandra Estepa, Regional Women's Health
  Coordinator, HHS Region II at 26 Federal Plaza, Room 3835, New York, NY
  10278, e-mail: sestepa@osophs.dhhs.gov .
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Women's Health Department of Health and Human Services 200
  Independence Avenue, SW Room 712E Washington, DC 20201.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.4woman.gov/owh .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  New Program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Basis for Sole Source Restriction on the Planned Cooperative Agreement. The
  Office of Grants Management, OPHS, has determined in accordance with
  AGAM 2.04 104A 1.e.(2) that this project is an outgrowth of a current ongoing
  collaboration between the OWH and GSUSA that is part of the Department's
  Steps to Healthier US. In addition, responsible government officials have
  determined that the GSUSA: (a) Is a well-established, trusted, national
  organization that serves diverse 11 to 17 year old girls; (b) has demonstrated
  evidence of commitment to girls' health; (c) has shown interest in the health
  promotion topics identified as priority subject areas under its MOU with DHHS
  which was the basis for an ongoing collaborative relationship and this particular
  project with OWH; (d) is able/willing to assist the local councils and the
  RWHCs in the design of the program; (e) is able/willing to implement the
  program designed by the RWHCs and the councils; (f) is able to support the
  evaluation process; and (g) has the organizational potential in terms of an
  ongoing structure and resources to sustain and expand health promotion program
  activities for diverse girls 11 to 17 years of age. Whether or not an award is
  application addressing the program components described in section I. Funding
  Opportunity Description and the amount of funds available for the Steps to
  Healthier Girls program (see Section IV.2 ``Application for Submission
  Information''). The government will not be obligated to make any awards as a
  result of this announcement.
93.015 HIV PREVENTION PROGRAMS FOR WOMEN
   (HIV Prevention Programs for Women)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, OFFICE OF THE
