  SECRETARY, OFFICE ON WOMENS HEALTH                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  This program is authorized by 42 U.S.C. 300u-2(a).                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  HIV Prevention for Women Living in the Rural South: (1) Increase knowledge          
  of accurate HIV prevention information among women living in rural                  
  communities in the south; (2) improve and increase access to quality HIV            
  prevention services to women living with or at high risk for HIV infection in       
  rural communities in the south; (3) improve receptivity to and awareness of HIV     
  prevention education, necessary to reduce the stigma among women in rural           
  southern communities; and (4) increase the number of women living in the rural      
  south, who voluntarily receiving HIV testing. HIV Prevention for Young Women        
  Attending Minority Institutions: (1) Increase on campus activities targeting        
  women at risk for HIV infection; (2) improve HIV prevention education efforts       
  involving women on campus; (3) increase knowledge base of accurate HIV/STD          
  prevention information among women attending minority institutions; and (4)         
  improve access to HIV health related services for women attending minority          
  institutions. HIV Prevention for Women Living in the Rural and Frontier Indian      
  Country: (1) Increase knowledge of accurate HIV prevention information among        
  women living in Indian Country; (2) improve and increase access to quality HIV      
  prevention services to women living with or at high risk for HIV infection in       
  rural and frontier Indian Country; (3) improve receptivity to and awareness of      
  HIV prevention education necessary to reduce the stigma among women in rural        
  and frontier Indian Country; and (4) increase the number of women living in         
  rural and frontier Indian Country, who voluntarily receiving HIV testing. HIV       
  Prevention for Women Incarcerated and Newly Released: (1) Increase the              
  number of incarcerated women receiving pre-release discharge planning,              
  particularly those who are living with HIV or at high risk for HIV infection; (2)   
  increase the number of HIV infected incarcerated women who are connected to         
  drug assistance programs, medical care, and case management services prior to       
  release or at time of release; (3) increase the number of community linkages and    
  networks for ensuring continuum of care for incarcerated and newly released         
  women living with or at high risk for HIV in locations with high rates of HIV       
  infections and incarcerated populations; and (4) increase the number of newly       
  released women receiving support services and HIV care six months post              
  release. HIV Prevention for Women Living in the U.S. Virgin Islands & Puerto        
  Rico: (1) Increase access to quality care and treatment for women living with       
  HIV infection; (2) improve and increase access to secondary HIV prevention          
  services to women living with HIV infection and primary prevention for those        
  women at risk for infection; (3) increase understanding of living with HIV,         
  disease management, and treatment adherence; and (4) increase community             
  support activities for women living with HIV and their families.                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds may be used to cover costs of: personnel; consultants; grant related office   
  supplies and software; grant related travel (domestic only); educational,           
  promotional and evaluation materials; and other grant related costs. Funds shall    
  not be used to fund direct health care services or equipment for patients (e.g.     
  diagnostic tests, screening equipment, treatment, etc.). Also, funds may not be     
  used for: building alterations or renovations, construction, screening supplies or  
  equipment, incentives and prizes, food, fund raising activities, political          
  education and lobbying, and other activities that are not grant related.            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The applicant must be a Public College or University; a Historically Black          
  College or University; a Hispanic Serving Institution; a Tribal College or          
  University; a Private Non-Profit Community-Based Organization; a Native             
  American Tribal Organization; and/or a Faith-Based Community Organization           
  serving underserved women. Small businesses or organizations not in an official     
  partnership with a qualified institution are not eligible for funding under this    
  announcement.                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Underserved women living in the Rural South; Young Women Attending                  
  Minority Institutions; Native/American Indian and Alaskan Native Women              
  Living in Rural and Frontier Indian Country; Women Incarcerated and Newly           
  Released Living with or at Risk for HIV/AIDS/STDs; and Women Living in              
  Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, will benefit from this program.            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review. The application kit to be made           
  available under this notice will contain a listing of States that have chosen to set
  up a review system and will include a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in       
  the State for review. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribes)    
  should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective    
  applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For       


                                                                                 11-08
  proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to
  contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office on
  Women's Health does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling (240) 453-8822 or writing to: Ms.
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS e-Grants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS e-Grants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline will be returned without comment.
  Accepted applications will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with
  PHS policies. Applications will be evaluated by a technical review panel
  composed of experts. Funding decisions will be determined by the Director,
  Division for Policy and Program Development, Office on Women's Health and
  will take into consideration the recommendations and ratings of the review
  panel; program needs, stated preferences; geographic location; and
  recommendations of DHHS Regional Women's Health Coordinators.
Deadlines:
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will
  be returned to the applicant unread.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days from the application deadline date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Support may be requested for a total project period not to exceed 2 years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Cost sharing and matching funds is not a requirement of this grant.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Support may be requested for a total project period not to exceed 2 years. Non-
  competing continuation awards of up to the amount specified in the
  announcement published in the Federal Register will be made subject to
  satisfactory performance and availability of funds.
Reports:
  Grantees will submit quarterly an annual technical report that include a detailed
  discussion of the process, impact, outcome evaluation of the HIV Prevention
  Program and an annual Financial Status Report (SF-269) in accordance with
  provisions of the general regulations which apply under Monitoring and
  Reporting Program Performance, 45 CFR parts74 and 92. An original and two
  copies of the annual report must be submitted by July 1. The annual report will
  serve as the non-competing continuation application and must cover all
  activities for the entire budget year. Therefore, this report must also include the
  budget request for the next grant year, with appropriate justification, and
  signatures, and must include a completed OPHS-1 Form.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  30, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
                                                                                  1233
