  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer  
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.                            
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  This is a new program therefore the number of awards and the amounts are            
  specified in the announcement published in the Federal Register, pending            
  availability of funds.                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  (1) Develop and implement the model described in the application; (2) provide       
  complete curricula, i.e., topics, content, participant workbook, participant        
  evaluation forms, pre/post instruments, and goals/objectives; (3) describe          
  training, teaching methods and strategies, e.g., interactive exercises, facilitated 
  discussion, lectures, video/films, community peers, etc., proposed to deliver       
  modules. Describe the intervention format: one time session, series of sessions     
  occurring beyond one day, one day session, etc.; (4) conduct outreach to local      
  entities and community representatives. Identify locations for prevention           
  education sites and identify community liaisons for assistance in identifying       
  prospective women participants; (5) establish community partnerships through        
  Memoranda of Understanding; (6) participate in the OWH Evaluation of                
  HIV/AIDS program, submitting requested data as needed as well as participating      
  in a site visit conducted by Evaluation Contractor; (7) participate in special      
  meetings and projects/funding opportunities identified by the OWH; (8) adhere       
  to all program requirements specified in this announcement and the Notice of        
  Grant Award; (9) submit required quarterly progress, annual, and financial          
  reports by the due dates stated in this announcement and the Notice of Grant        
  Award; and (10) comply with the DHHS Protection of Human Subjects                   
  regulations (45 CFR Part 46), which require obtaining Institutional Review          
  Board (IRB) approval, if applicable.                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the    
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS            
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994); 45 CFR 100 applies.        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office on Women's Health Department of Health and Human Services 200                
  Independence Avenue, SW Room 712E Washington, DC 20201.                             
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.4woman.gov/owh .                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None - New Program.                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None - New Program.                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The applicant must be a Public College or University; a Historically Black          
  College or University; a Hispanic Serving Institution; a Tribal College or          
  University; a Private Non-Profit Community-Based Organization; a Native             
  American Tribal Organization; and/or a Faith-Based Community Organization           
  serving underserved women. Small businesses or organizations not in an official     
  partnership with a qualified institution are not eligible for funding under this    
  announcement. For specific details see the full announcement published in the       
  Federal Register.                                                                   
                                                                                      
93.017 STRENGTHENING THE MANAGEMENT AND                                               
SERVICES OF THE WOMEN'S AND CHILDREN'S                                                
                                                                                      
HOSPITALS IN KABUL                                                                    
  (Strengthening the Management and Services of the Women's and                       
  Children's Hospitals in Kabul)                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, OFFICE OF THE                              
  SECRETARY, OFFICE OF GLOBAL HEALTH AFFAIRS                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  This program is authorized under the Authority of Section 103 (a) (1); Section      
  103 (a) (7) of Public Law 107-327; Public Health Service Act, Section 307 and       
  Division F of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005, Public Law 108-447         
  (2004).                                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The primary goal of this project is to improve the quality of care at health        
  institutions in Afghanistan Hospital by developing effective leadership and         
  management and improving operations. The funding will provide essential             
  material resources within budgetary limitations for patient care, operations,       
  facility management and for grant activities related to leadership and              
  management development. To create equitable and high quality care through the       
  acceptance and delivery of donated medical equipment, pharmaceuticals, and          
  technology-related training for physicians, nurses, midwives, and other health      


1234                                                                            11-08

  care workers at hospitals in Kabul, Afghanistan.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to cover costs of: personnel; consultants; grant related office
  supplies and software; grant related travel (domestic only); educational,
  promotional and evaluation materials; and other grant related costs. Funds shall
  not be used to fund direct health care services or equipment for patients (e.g.
  diagnostic tests, screening equipment, treatment, etc.). Also, funds may not be
  used for: building alterations or renovations, construction, screening supplies or
  equipment, incentives and prizes, food, fund raising activities, political
  education and lobbying, and other activities that are not grant related.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applications may be submitted by non-profit entities with offices in the United
  States and partner country or incorporated and headquartered in the United
  States with offices in the United States. Additionally, organizations or
  consortiums of organizations, including faith-based and community based
  organizations, that have collective experience with accepting donated medical
  technology, upgrading drug formularies, training health care providers, local and
  international transportation, and other logistics are encouraged to apply for a
  grant under this announcement.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Underserved women and children receiving services from Kabul Hospitals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Notification of Intent to Apply: A Letter of Intent(LOI), is not required.
  However, if a LOI is submitted, the letter should identify the applicant
  organization and its intent to apply, and briefly describe the proposal to be
  submitted. We will not acknowledge receipt of Letters of Intent. This letter
  should be sent by the date listed in the Federal Register, by mail or fax to: U.S.
  Department of Health and Human Services, Office of the Secretary, Office of
  Global Health Affairs, 5600 Fishers Lane, Suite 18-101, Rockville, MD 20857,
  Facsimile Number: (301) 443-2820 Executive Order 12372 This program is not
  subject to the review requirements of Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling (240) 453-8822 or writing to: Ms.
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS eGrants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS eGrants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline will be returned without comment.
  Accepted applications will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with
  PHS policies. Applications will be evaluated by a technical review panel
  composed of experts and of peer reviewers. Funding decisions will be
  determined by the Deputy Director, Asia and Pacific Division of the Office
  Global Health Affairs and will take into consideration the recommendations and
  ratings of the review panel; program needs, stated preferences; program
  relevance and, availability of funds.
Deadlines:
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will
  be returned to the applicant unread.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 30 days from the application deadline date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
