  Project period is for up to 3 years with annual renewals and budget periods and    
  are contingent upon available funding.                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Cost sharing and matching funds is not a requirement of this grant.                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project period is for up to 3 years with annual renewals and budget periods and    
  are contingent upon available funding.                                             
Reports:                                                                             
  Grantees will submit quarterly an annual technical reports that include a detailed 
  discussion of the process, impact, outcome and evaluation of the Program; and      
  submit an annual Financial Status Report (SF-269) in accordance with               
  provisions of the general regulations which apply under "Monitoring and            
  Reporting Program Performance," 45 CFR parts74 and 92. An original and two         
  copies of the annual report and Financial Status Report must be submitted          
  within 90 days of the budget period end date.                                      
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June        
  30, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are          
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government              
  officials.                                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other        
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer 
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.                           
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $200,000 to $1,500,000; (including direct and indirect costs). This is a new       
  program.                                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Measurable outcomes of the program will be in alignment with one (or more) of      
  the following performance goals: Increase access to care and improve quality of    
  care; Improve disease prevention and health education; Improve workforce           
  development and retention; and Improve public health infrastructure.               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the   
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS           
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994); 45 CFR 100 applies.       
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Global Health Affairs U.S. Department of Health and Human Services       
  200 Independence Ave., S.W., Room 639 H Washington, D.C. 20201 Phone:              
  (202) 690-6174, Fax: (202) 690-7127.                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.globalhealth.gov/oirh.shtml .                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applications will be screened by OGHA staff for completeness and for

                                                                                     
  responsiveness to the program guidance. Applicants should pay strict attention

                                                                                     
  addressing these criteria, as they are the basis upon which applications will be

                                                                                     
  judged. Those applications judged to be non-responsive or incomplete will be

                                                                                     
  returned to the applicant without review. Applications that are complete and

                                                                                     
  responsive to the guidance will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by

                                                                                     
  an appropriate peer review group specifically convened for this solicitation and

                                                                                     
  in accordance with HHS policies and procedures. As part of the initial merit

                                                                                     
  review, all applications will receive a written critique. All applications

                                                                                     
  recommended for approval will be discussed fully by the ad hoc peer review

                                                                                     
  group and assigned a priority score for funding. Eligible applications will be

                                                                                     
  assessed according to the listed criteria in the Federal Register announcement.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.018 STRENGTHENING PUBLIC HEALTH SERVICES AT                                       
THE OUTREACH OFFICES OF THE U.S.-MEXICO                                              
                                                                                     
BORDER HEALTH COMMISSION

                                                                                     
   (Strengthening Public Health Services at the Outreach Offices of                  
  the U.S.-Mexico Border Health Commission)                                          
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, OFFICE OF GLOBAL HEALTH AFFAIRS,                          


                                                                               11-08 
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  This program is authorized under the Authority of Section 103 (a) (1); Section
  103 (a) (7) of public law 107-327; Public Health Service Act, Section 307.
OBJECTIVES:
  This initiative addresses and targets outreach and health promotion activities;
  evaluation and assessments; health data analysis and surveillance; public
  information, promotion and communication; Healthy Border/Healthy Gente
  activities; and will work with communities to implement programs to improve
  the health of border residents; and will publicize the achievements and
  challenges of border health; and will provide programmatic and administrative
  support to the members and staff of the Unites States - Mexico Border Health
  Commission. This assistance is geared to support current, on-going and
  proposed public health initiatives in this border region that support the goals and
  objectives of the United States - Mexico Border Health Commission as it serves
  to strengthen access to health care, disease prevention, and public health along
  the state border.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to cover costs of: personnel; consultants; grant related office
  supplies and software; grant related travel (domestic only); educational,
  promotional and evaluation materials; and other grant related costs. Funds shall
  not be used to fund direct health care services or equipment for patients (e.g.
  diagnostic tests, screening equipment, treatment, etc.). Also, funds may not be
  used for: building alterations or renovations, construction, screening supplies or
  equipment, incentives and prizes, food, fund raising activities, political
  education and lobbying, and other activities that are not grant related.
Applicant Eligibility:
  This is a single eligibility cooperative agreement offered to the TX, NM, AZ,
  and CA State Department of Health. The State Department of Health will work
  with the Border State Outreach Office to accomplish the goals and objectives of
  the U.S.-Mexico Border Health Commission.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Underserved individuals residing in border area communities, and increase
  assistance to United States- Mexico Border Health Commission.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. The application kit to be made
  available under this notice will contain a listing of States that have chosen to set
  up a review system and will include a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in
  the State for review. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribes)
  should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective
  applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For
  proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to
  contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office on
  Women's Health does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling (240) 453-8822 or writing to:
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Karen Campbell, Director, Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management, 1101
  Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS eGrants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS eGrants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov.
Award Procedure:
                                                                                   1235
