  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be            
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline will be returned without comment.          
  Accepted applications will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with      
  PHS policies. Applications will be evaluated by a technical review panel           
  composed of experts. Funding decisions will be determined by the Director,         
  Office of Global Health Affairs and will take into consideration the               
  recommendations and ratings of the review panel; program needs, and stated

  preferences.                                                                       
Deadlines:

  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established     
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will   
  be returned to the applicant unread.                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Approximately 60 days from the application deadline date.                          
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Project period is for 1 year.                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Cost-sharing and matching funds is not a requirement of this grant.                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project period is for 1 year.

                                                                                     
Reports:

                                                                                     
  Grantees will submit quarterly an annual technical reports that include a detailed

                                                                                     
  discussion of the process, impact, outcome and evaluation of the Program; and

                                                                                     
  submit an annual Financial Status Report (SF-269) in accordance with

                                                                                     
  provisions of the general regulations which apply under Monitoring and

                                                                                     
  Reporting Program Performance, 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92. An original and two

                                                                                     
  copies of the annual report and Financial Status Report must be submitted

                                                                                     
  within 90 days of the budget period end date.

                                                                                     
Audits:

                                                                                     
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                     
  30, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,

                                                                                     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                     
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are

                                                                                     
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government

                                                                                     
  officials.

                                                                                     
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other

                                                                                     
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer

                                                                                     
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  75-0120-0-1-551.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                     
  $250,000 to $500,000; (including direct and indirect costs).

                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                     
  Measurable outcomes of the program will be in alignment with one (or more) of

                                                                                     
  the following performance goals: Increase access to care and improve quality of

                                                                                     
  care; Improve disease prevention and health education; Improve workforce

                                                                                     
  development and retention; Improve public health infrastructure; and Improve

                                                                                     
  outreach and health promotion to the community.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the   
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS           
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994); 45 CFR 100 applies.       
                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Global Health Affairs, Department of Health and Human Services 200       
  Independence Ave., S.W., Room 639 H, Washington, DC 20201. Telephone:              
  (202) 690-6174, Fax: (202) 690-7127.                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.globalhealth.gov/oirh.shtml .                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applications will be screened by OGHA staff for completeness and for               
  responsiveness to the program guidance. Applicants should pay strict attention     
  addressing these criteria, as they are the basis upon which applications will be   
  judged. Those applications judged to be non-responsive or incomplete will be       
  returned to the applicant without review. Applications that are complete and       
  responsive to the guidance will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by 
  an appropriate peer review group specifically convened for this solicitation and   
  in accordance with HHS policies and procedures. As part of the initial merit       


1236                                                                           11-08

  review, all applications will receive a written critique. All applications
  recommended for approval will be discussed fully by the ad hoc peer review
  group and assigned a priority score for funding. Eligible applications will be
  assessed according the following criteria: Technical Approach, 45 points;
  Experience and Capabilities of the Organization, 45 points; and Facilities and
  Resources, 10 points.
93.019 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND PROVISION FOR
FOREIGN HOSPITALS AND HEALTH ORGANIZATIONS
  (Technical Assistance and Provision for Foreign Hospitals and
  Health Organizations)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, OFFICE OF GLOBAL HEALTH AFFAIRS,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  This program is authorized under the Authority of Section 103 (a) (1) and
  Section 103 (a) (7) of Public Law 107-327; Public Health Service Act, Section
  307; Division F of the Consolidate Appropriations Act, 2005, Public Law 108-
  447 (2004).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide support for a quality of care improvement project based in a partner
  healthcare institution in Afghanistan, to provide continuing education and
  refresher training to physicians and other staff at Women's and Children's
  hospitals and other Health Organizations in Afghanistan, and to provide support
  to strengthen the management of Women's and Children's hospitals by the
  Afghan Ministries of Public Health (MOPH) in Afghanistan.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to cover costs of: personnel; consultants; grant related office
  supplies and software; grant related travel (domestic only); educational,
  promotional and evaluation materials; and other grant related costs. Funds shall
  not be used to fund direct health care services or equipment for patients (e.g.,
  diagnostic tests, screening equipment, treatment, etc.). Also, funds may not be
  used for: building alterations or renovations, construction, screening supplies or
  equipment, incentives and prizes, food, fund raising activities, political
  education and lobbying, and other activities that are not grant related.
Applicant Eligibility:
  This is a single eligibility cooperative agreement offered to the TX, NM, AZ,
  and CA State Department of Health. The State Department of Health will work
  with the Border State Outreach Office to accomplish the goals and objectives of
  the U.S.-Mexico Border Health Commission.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Underserved individuals residing in border area communities, and increase
  assistance to U.S.-Mexico Border Health Commission.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. The application kit to be made
  available under this notice will contain a listing of States that have chosen to set
  up a review system and will include a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in
  the State for review. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribes)
  should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective
  applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For
  proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to
  contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office on
  Women's Health does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling (240) 453-8822 or writing to:
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Karen Campbell, Director, Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management, 1101
  Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
