  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant      
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the          
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic   
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any         
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,  
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,    
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the     
  OPHS eGrants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.              
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS eGrants Web site,          
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov.                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be           
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline will be returned without comment.         
  Accepted applications will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with     
  PHS policies. Applications will be evaluated by a technical review panel          
  composed of experts. Funding decisions will be determined by the Director,

  Office of Global Health Affairs and will take into consideration the              
  recommendations and ratings of the review panel; program needs, and stated

  preferences.                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                          
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established

                                                                                    
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will  
  be returned to the applicant unread.                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 60 days from the application deadline date.                         
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.

                                                                                    
Renewals:

                                                                                    
  Project period is for 1 year.

                                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Cost-sharing and matching funds is not a requirement of this grant.               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Project period is for 1 year.                                                     
Reports:                                                                            
  Grantees will submit quarterly an annual technical reports that include a detailed
  discussion of the process, impact, outcome and evaluation of the Program; and     
  submit an annual Financial Status Report (SF-269) in accordance with              
  provisions of the general regulations which apply under "Monitoring and           
  Reporting Program Performance," 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92. An original and two       
  copies of the annual report and Financial Status Report must be submitted         
  within 90 days of the budget period end date.                                     
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  30, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are         
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government             
  officials.                                                                        
Records:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $1,285,500; and FY 09 est not reported.                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $250,000 to $500,000; (including direct and indirect costs).                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Measurable outcomes of the program will be in alignment with one (or more) of     
  the following performance goals: Increase access to care and improve quality of   
  care; Improve disease prevention and health education; Improve workforce          
  development and retention; Improve public health infrastructure; and Improve      
  outreach and health promotion to the community.                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the  
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS          
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994); 45 CFR 100 applies.      
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office of Global Health Affairs, Department of Health and Human Services, 200     
  Independence Ave., S.W., Room 639 H, Washington, DC 20201. Telephone:             
  (202) 690-6174, Fax: (202) 690-7127.                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  www.globalhealth.gov/oirh.shtml.                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  None.

                                                                               11-08
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be screened by OGHA staff for completeness and for
  responsiveness to the program guidance. Applicants should pay strict attention
  addressing these criteria, as they are the basis upon which applications will be
  judged. Those applications judged to be non-responsive or incomplete will be
  returned to the applicant without review. Applications that are complete and
  responsive to the guidance will be evaluated for scientific and technical merit by
  an appropriate peer review group specifically convened for this solicitation and
  in accordance with HHS policies and procedures. As part of the initial merit
  review, all applications will receive a written critique. All applications
  recommended for approval will be discussed fully by the ad hoc peer review
  group and assigned a priority score for funding. Eligible applications will be
  assessed according the following criteria: Technical Approach 45 points;
  Experience and Capabilities of the Organization 45 points; and Facilities and
  Resources 10 points.
93.041 SPECIAL PROGRAMS FOR THE AGING-TITLE VII,
CHAPTER 3-PROGRAMS FOR PREVENTION OF ELDER
ABUSE, NEGLECT, AND EXPLOITATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION ON AGING, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Older Americans Act of 1965, Title III, Parts A and G, Public Law 89-73, as
  amended; Public Law 90-42, 81 Stat. 106; Public Law 91-69, 83 Stat. 108;
  Public Law 93-29, 87 Stat. 30; Public Law 93-351, 88 Stat. 357; Public Law 94-
  135, 89 Stat. 713; Public Law 95-65, 91 Stat. 269; Public Law 95-478, 92 Stat.
  1513; Public Law 97-115, 95 Stat. 1595; Public Law 98-459, 98 Stat. 1767;
  Public Law 100- 175, 101 Stat. 926; Section 705, Public Law 100-628; 42
  U.S.C. 3022- 3030(p); Public Law 106-501.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support activities to develop, strengthen, and carry out programs for the
  prevention, detection, assessment, and treatment of, intervention in,
  investigation of, and response to elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation
  (including financial exploitation), including: (1) providing for public education
  and outreach to identify and prevent elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation; (2)
  providing for public education and outreach to promote financial literacy and
  prevent identity theft and financial exploitation of older individuals; (3) ensuring
  the coordination of services provided by area agencies on aging with services
  instituted under the State adult protection service program, State and local law
  enforcement systems, and courts of competent jurisdiction; (4) promoting the
  development of information and data systems, including elder abuse reporting
  systems, to quantify the extent of elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation in the
  State; (5) conducting analyses of State information concerning elder abuse,
  neglect, and exploitation and identifying unmet service, enforcement, or
  intervention needs; (6) conducting training for individuals, professionals, and
  paraprofessionals, in relevant fields on the identification, prevention, and
  treatment of elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation, with particular focus on
  prevention and enhancement of self determination and autonomy; (7) providing
  technical assistance to programs that provide or have the potential to provide
  services for victims of elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation and for family
  members of the victims; (8) conducting special and on going training for
  individuals involved in serving victims of elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation,
  on the topics of self determination, individual rights, State and Federal
  requirements concerning confidentiality, and other topics determined by a State
  agency to be appropriate; (9) promoting the development of an elder abuse,
  neglect, and exploitation system; (10) examining various types of shelters
  serving older individuals (in this paragraph referred to as safe havens), and
  testing various safe haven models for establishing safe havens (at home or
  elsewhere), that recognize autonomy and self-determination, and fully protect
  the due process rights of older individuals; and (11) supporting multidisciplinary
  elder justice activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are awarded to State Agencies on Aging to develop and enhance
  comprehensive and coordinated programs for the prevention and treatment of
  elder abuse, neglect, and exploitation, consistent with relevant State law and
  coordinated with State adult protective service activities. A State plan covering
  2, 3, or 4 years, with annual revisions as necessary, must be submitted for
  approval to the Assistant Secretary on Aging. Funds are used to develop,
  strengthen, and carry out activities for prevention and treatment of elder abuse,
  neglect and exploitation.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All States and U.S. Territories which have State Agencies on Aging designated
  by the governors.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals 60 years of age and older, targeting those older individuals with the
                                                                                   1237
