Renewals:                                                                          
  Grant extensions are available and may be requested from the grantee's Program   
  Officer.                                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  This program has no statutory formula. Matching requirements may be required     
  of any grantee to the extent deemed appropriate by the Assistant Secretary for   
  Aging and are generally set at a minimum of 25 percent of the total cost of the

  project.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                   
  Generally, projects are approved for a period of 12 to 36 months. Support        
  beyond the first year is contingent upon the availability of funds and evidence  
  of satisfactory progress.

Reports:                                                                           
  Semi-annual progress reports and final reports are required of grantees. Annual  
  financial reports are required. Reports to be submitted by the grantees or       
  contractors are specified in the contract or grant award.                        
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June      
  24, 1997), "Audits of State and Local Governments, and Nonprofit                 
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit         
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a    
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, 
  except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                       
Records:                                                                           
  Records must be maintained for 3 years after submission of the final expenditure 
  report.                                                                          
Account Identification:                                                            
  75-0142-0-1-506.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $37,190,699; FY 08 est $48,618,000; and FY 09       
  est $48,618,000.                                                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  $15,000 to $2,931,390; $204,476.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  The number of awards in fiscal year 2006 totaled 210. It is estimated that 228   
  awards will be made in fiscal year 2007. Awards in fiscal year 2006 were made    
  to support: (1) A national program to enlist retired professional and other older
  volunteers in combating Medicare/Medicaid fraud and waste; (2) a national        
  program of statewide senior legal information services, legal and related elder  
  rights projects; (3) Performance Outcomes Measures Projects; (4) the Eldercare   
  Locator, a national toll-free aging information and assistance telephone service;
  (5) projects focused on minority aging issues; (6) information and assistance    
  resource centers for older adults and persons with disabilities; (7) evidence-   
  based health promotion and disease prevention grants designed to translate       
  clinical research into effective approaches delivered through community-based    
  aging services providers.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  See Chapter XIII, Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations on AoA supported   
  projects. Annual guidelines, program information, and application instructions   
  are available from the Administration on Aging, Washington, DC 20201.            
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Regional Administrator, Administration on Aging, Department of Health and        
  Human Services, located at all HHS Federal Regional Offices. (See Appendix IV    
  of the Catalog for addresses.)                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Greg Case, Center for Planning and Policy Development, Administration on         
  Aging; Department of Health and Human Services, Washington, DC 20201;            
  Telephone: (202) 357-3442. E-mail: Greg.Case@aoa.hhs.gov. T (202) 401-4634       
  for FTS.                                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.aoa.gov. For information on current funding opportunities and         
  associated application forms, visit:                                             
  www.aoa.gov/doingbus/fundopp/fundopp.asp.                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  93.041, Special Programs for the Aging_Title VII, Chapter 3_Programs for         
  Prevention of Elder Abuse, Neglect, and Exploitation; 93.042, Special Programs   
  for the Aging_Title VII, Chapter 2_Long Term Care Ombudsman Services for         
  Older Individuals; 93.043, Special Programs for the Aging_Title III, Part        
  D_Disease Prevention and Health Promotion Services; 93.044, Special Programs     
  for the Aging_Title III, Part B_Grants for Supportive Services and Senior        
  Centers; 93.051, Alzheimer's Disease Demonstration Grants to States; 93.052,     
  National Family Caregiver Support, Title III, Part E; 93.990, National Health    
  Promotion.                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  (1) Evidence-Based Disease Prevention Grants Program; (2) National Center on     
  Elder Abuse; (3) Alzheimer's Disease Demonstration Grants to States Program;     
  (4) Senior Medicare Patrol Projects; and (5) Aging and Disability Resource       
  Centers.                                                                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  


                                                                              11-08
  Details for evaluating applications are published as part of each Title IV
  program announcement. Major emphases are: (1) documented need; (2)
  expected outcomes and benefits; (3) innovative approach; (4) level of effort; (5)
  involvement of community-based organizations in planning and implementation
  activities; and, (6) projects that benefit disadvantaged groups, including low-
  income, minority and limited English speaking populations.
93.051 ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE DEMONSTRATION
GRANTS TO STATES
   (Alzheimer's Demonstration Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION ON AGING, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Alzheimer's Disease Demonstration Grants to States (ADDGS) program was
  established under Section 398 of the Public Health Service Act (Public Law 78-
  410; 42 U.S.C. 280c-3). It was amended by the Home Health Care and
  Alzheimer's Disease Amendments of 1990 (Public Law 101-557) and by the
  Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998 (Public Law 105-392).
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist States in creating a system of dementia care for persons with
  Alzheimer's disease and their families, by carrying out demonstration projects
  for planning, establishing, and operating programs to: (1) Create models of
  assistance for persons with Alzheimer's disease and their families; and (2) to
  improve the responsiveness of the existing home and community based care
  system to persons with Alzheimer's disease and related disorders and their
  families by linking programs to other state system change efforts, including state
  programs to streamline consumer access to services and family caregiver support
  programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  (1) Not less than 50 percent of the federal grant must be spent on home health
  care, personal care, day care, companion services, short-term care in health
  facilities, and other respite care to individuals with Alzheimer's disease and
  related disorders. (2) Grant funds cannot be used to replace existing, State,
  Federal, or private insurance funds. (3) Matching funds are required. (4) Not
  more than 10 percent of the grant will be expended for administrative expenses.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State government agencies are eligible for grant awards; the applicant agency is
  encouraged to have the support and active involvement of the Single State
  Agency on Aging. Only one application per State will be funded, however,
  multiple state and local agencies are encouraged to collaborate in planning and
  carrying out the project.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  (1) Individuals with Alzheimer's disease and related disorders; (2) families of
  those individuals; and (3) care providers of those individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must submit: (1) A description of intended use of the grant; (2)
  information describing programs and activities to be supported; (3) the number
  of individuals receiving services and the cost of services; and (4) a plan
  describing coordination of such services. Applicable costs and administrative
  procedures will be determined in accordance with Part 92 of Title 45 of the Code
  of Federal Regulations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant Application for Federal Assistance (Nonconstruction Programs) are in
  accordance with program announcements developed by the Administration on
  Aging (AoA) and will be published in Grants.gov when funding is available. As
  specified in the program announcement, application forms and instructions may
  be obtained by writing to the US Department of Health and Human Services,
  Administration on Aging, Grants Management Office, Washington, DC 20201.
Award Procedure:
  After review and approval, notification of award will be issued to the grantee,
  along with appropriate notification to the public.
Deadlines:
  As specified in guidelines published in the Program Announcement and on
  Grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days from closing date or receipt of application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  As outlined in the program announcement.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Matching requirements are as follows: first year of the award, 25 percent
  nonfederal matching requirement; second year, 35 percent nonfederal; and third
                                                                                 1243
