  and subsequent years, 45 percent nonfederal. The nonfederal contribution may      
  be in the form of cash or in-kind contributions, including plant, equipment, or   
  services.                                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Awards are typically 3 years in duration. Length of future awards will be         
  published in the program announcement and on Grants.gov.                          
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial status reports are required annually, program progress reports are      
  required semi-annually, and final reports are due at the end of the full project  
  period.                                                                           
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June       
  24, 1997), "Audits of State and Local Governments, and Nonprofit                  
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000  
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit          
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a     
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,  
  except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                        
Records:                                                                            
  Records must be kept available for 3 years after submission of the final          
  expenditure report.                                                               
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-0142-0-1-506.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $11,668,000; FY 08 $10,996,505; and FY 09 est not available.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $100,000 to $300,000; $270,144.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Program evaluation includes analysis of seven years of longitudinal program       
  data and ongoing project evaluation. During the first ten years of program        
  implementation, over 15,000 client families have received direct services (such   
  as adult day care, respite, personal care, home health care, and companion care)  
  and approximately 1 million units of outreach, including educational seminars     
  and workshops have been provided to family caregivers, community service          
  providers, and volunteers. Nearly 50 percent of the clients served are minorities 
  and 48 percent of those receiving services reside in rural areas.                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Home Health Care and Alzheimer's Disease Amendments of 1990 (Public Law           
  101-557); Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998 (Public Law       
  105-392).                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Administration on Aging, Department of Health and Human Services, located at      
  all HHS Federal Regional Offices. (See Appendix IV of the Catalog for listings.)  
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Lori Stalbaum, Center for Wellness and Community-Based Services,                  
  Department of Health and Human Services, Administration on Aging,                 
  Washington, DC 20201; Telephone: (202) 357-3452 or (202) 401-4634. Use the        
  latter number for FTS. E-mail: Lori.Stalbaum@aoa.hhs.gov.                         
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  For more information about current funding opportunities and associated           
  application forms visit - http://www.aoa.gov/doingbus/fundopp/fundopp.asp or      
  www.grants.gov                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  A listing of currently funded projects may be obtained by contacting Lori         
  Stalbaum at (202) 357-3452 or by visiting http://www.aoa.gov/alz.                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  As specified in the program announcement.                                         
                                                                                    
93.052 NATIONAL FAMILY CAREGIVER SUPPORT,                                           
                                                                                    
TITLE III, PART E

                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  ADMINISTRATION ON AGING, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                                 
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Older Americans Act, as amended, Public Law 106- 501, Title III, Part E and VI,   
  Part C.                                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To assist States, Territories and Indian Tribal Organizations in providing        
  multifaceted systems of support services for: (1) Family caregivers; and (2)      
  grandparents or older individuals who are relative caregivers. Services to be     
  provided include: information to caregivers about available services; assistance  
  to caregivers in gaining access to the services; individual counseling, and       
  caregiver training to caregivers to assist the caregivers in making decisions and 
  solving problems relating to their caregiving roles; respite care to enable       
  caregivers to be temporarily relieved from their caregiving responsibilities; and 
  supplemental services, on a limited basis, to complement the care provided by     
  caregivers.                                                                       


1244                                                                          11-08

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  These two authorities are for making grants to States and Territories under Title
  III-E and to Indian Tribal Organizations under Title VI-C to enable the provision
  of multifaceted systems of support services for family caregivers; and for
  grandparents or older individuals who are relative caregivers.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Formula grants: State governments and U.S. Territories, with distribution to
  designated area agencies on aging through an approved State plan and intrastate
  funding formula. Project (Title VI-C) grants: Indian Tribal Organizations and
  Native Hawaiian organizations with approved applications under Title VI, Parts
  A and B.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Family caregivers, grandparents and older individuals who are relative
  caregivers will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Formula Grants - Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular
  No. A-87 for State and local governments. Project Grants (Title VI-C). Costs
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and
  local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Formula Grants - This program is subject only to the State Plan Consolidation
  Section of E.O. 12372. State plans are covered under this Section, but
  Intergovernmental Consultation Review is excluded. Project Grants (Title VI-C):
   standard application forms will be provided and may be used for this program.
  Applicants are encouraged to consult with the Administration on Aging in the
  development of the application.
Application Procedure:
  Formula Grants - Application Procedures: Consult with the appropriate Regional
  Office for State application instruction. Project Grants (Title VI-C) - Grant
  applications are in accordance with program announcements developed by the
  Administration on Aging (AoA) and will be published in the Federal Register.
  As specified in the program announcement, application forms and instructions
  may be obtained by writing to the Administration on Aging, Grants
  Management Division, 330 Independence Avenue, SW., Cohen Building, 4th
  Floor, Washington, DC 20201.
Award Procedure:
  Formula Grants - The Administration on Aging awards funds through a statutory
  formula to State Agencies on Aging. State agencies approve and award funds to
  substate level organizations, that they have designated. Project Grants (Title VI-
  C). After review and approval, notification of award will be issued to the
  grantee, along with appropriate notification to the public.
Deadlines:
  Formula Grants - Funds are awarded to State Agencies on Aging based on the
  Federal fiscal year. Project Grants (Title VI-C) are as specified in guidelines
  published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Formula Grants - States are entitled to these grants by statue. Project Grants
  (Title VI-C) - Approximately 60 to 90 days from closing date or receipt of
  application.
Appeals:
  Formula Grants and Project Grants Under Title VI-C - Appeals are processed in
  accordance with the HHS regulations in 45 CFR, Part 1321, and Section 2112 of
  Title 28, U.S.C.
Renewals:
  Formula Grants - State plans are submitted for a 2,3,or 4-year period, with
  annual revisions as necessary. Project Grants (Title VI-C) are as outlined in the
  program announcement published in the Federal Register.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula grants (Title III-E) -- are 75 percent Federal and 25 percent nonfederal.
  The nonfederal contribution may be in the form of cash or in-kind contributions,
  including plant, equipment, or services. Project Grants (Title VI-C) - no
  matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  One year.
Reports:
  Financial status reports and program progress reports are required semi-annually
  for formula and project grants, including a final report at the end of each grant
  year.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of State and Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a
  year in Federal awards is exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records must be kept available for 3 years after submission of
