  ADMINISTRATION ON AGING, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                                   
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Older Americans Act, as amended, Public Law 106-501; Public Law 109-365,            
  Title VI, Part C.                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist Indian Tribal Organizations in providing multifaceted systems of          
  support services for: (1) Family caregivers; and (2) grandparents or older          
  individuals who are relative caregivers. Services to be provided include:           
  information to caregivers about available services; assistance to caregivers in     
  gaining access to the services; individual counseling and caregiver training to     
  assist the caregivers in making decisions and solving problems relating to their    
  caregiving roles; respite care to enable caregivers to be temporarily relieved from 
  their caregiving responsibilities; and supplemental services, on a limited basis,   
  to complement the care provided by caregivers.                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  This authority is for making grants to Indian Tribal Organizations under Title      
  VI-C to enable the provision of multifaceted systems of support services for        
  family caregivers; and for grandparents or older individuals who are relative       
  caregivers.                                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Indian Tribal Organizations and Native Hawaiian organizations with approved

  applications under Title VI, Parts A and B.                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Family caregivers, grandparents, and older individuals who are relative

  caregivers will benefit.                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:

  Applicable costs and administrative procedures will be determined in                
  accordance with Parts 74 and 92 of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations.     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Standard application forms will be provided and may be used for this program.       
  Applicants are encouraged to consult with the Administration on Aging in the        
  development of the application. THis program is excluded from coverage under        
  E.O.12372.                                                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications are submitted in accordance with program announcements           
  developed by the Administration on Aging (AoA) and will be published in the         
  Federal Register. As specified in the program announcement, application forms       
  and instructions may be obtained by writing to the U.S. Administration on           
  Aging, Dept. of Health & Human Services, Office of Grants Management,               
  Washington, DC 20001.                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  After review and approval, notification of award will be issued to the grantee,     
  along with appropriate notification to the public.                                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Grants are awarded as specified in guidelines published in the Federal Register.    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Grants are approved approximately 60 to 90 days from closing date or receipt of     
  application.                                                                        
Appeals:                                                                              
  Appeals are processed in accordance with the HHS regulations in 45 CFR Part         
  1326 and 1328.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals are issued as outlined in the program announcement published in the        
  Federal Register.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no matching requirements.                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  One year.                                                                           
Reports:                                                                              
  Financial status reports and program progress reports are required annually.        
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June         
  24, 1997), "Audits of State and Local Governments, and Nonprofit                    
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000    
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit            
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a       
  year in Federal awards is exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,     
  except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Records must be kept available for 3 years after submission of the final            
  expenditure report.                                                                 
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0142-0-1-506.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $6,241,000; FY 08 $6,268,335; and FY 09 est $6,316,000.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                      
  $14,510 to $59,310; $31,048.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

1246                                                                            11-08

  In fiscal years 2007 and 2008, it is estimated that 109 grants will be made to
  Tribal Organizations. Funds are provided to Indian Tribal Organizations and
  Native Hawaiian organizations to provide multifaceted systems or support
  services for family caregivers and for grandparents or older individuals who are
  relative caregivers.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR Part 74, 45 CFR Part 92.
Regional or Local Office:
  Administration on Aging Regional Administrator, Administration on Aging,
  Department of Health and Human Services, located at all HHS Federal Regional
  Offices. (See Appendix IV of the Catalog for listings.)
Headquarters Office:
  Yvonne Jackson, Office for American Indian, Alaskan Natives and Native
  Hawaiian Programs, Administration on Aging, Washington, DC 20201.
  Telephone: (202) 357-3501. E-mail: Yvonne.Jackson@aoa.hhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.aoa.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are published in the Federal Register.
93.061 INNOVATIONS IN APPLIED PUBLIC HEALTH
RESEARCH
   CDC Health Protection Research Initiative (HPRI)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 317(k)(2) of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 247b(k)(2), as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To foster the new knowledge necessary to develop, enhance, and disseminate
  effective public health services, programs, and policies that improve health and
  quality of life for the population.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Applied public health research provides the critical new knowledge to address
  the CDC Health Protection Goals and identified priority research needs.
  Research is focused on improving public health practices to maximize positive
  health outcomes and impacts.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applications may be submitted by public and private nonprofit and for profit
  organizations and by governments and their agencies, such as: Public nonprofit
  organizations Private nonprofit organizations, For profit organizations, Small,
  minority, women-owned businesses, Universities, Colleges, Research
  institutions, Hospitals, Community-based organizations, Faith-based
  organizations, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, Indian tribes,
  Indian tribal organizations, State and local governments or their Bona Fide
  Agents (this includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
  Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianna Islands,
  American Samoa, Guam, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the
  Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau), Political subdivisions of States (in
  consultation with States).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiary will be to public and private nonprofit and for profit organizations
  and by governments and their agencies, such as: Public nonprofit organizations
  Private nonprofit organizations, For profit organizations, Small, minority,
  women-owned businesses, Universities, Colleges, Research institutions,
  Hospitals, Community-based organizations, Faith-based organizations, Federally
  Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, Indian tribes, Indian tribal
  organizations, State and local governments or their Bona Fide Agents (this
  includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin
  Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianna Islands, American Samoa,
  Guam, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
  and the Republic of Palau), Political subdivisions of States (in consultation with
  States).
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the
  project, present their approach to meeting the objectives, and outline the
  methods of operation. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and Federally Recognized
  Indian Tribal Governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
