Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants must download the SF424 (R&R) application forms and SF424               
  (R&R) Application Guide located at:                                                
  http://www.grants.gov/applicants/apply_for_grants.jsp or applications must be      
  prepared using the most current PHS 398 research grant application instructions    
  and forms. The PHS 398 application instructions are available at                   
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html. Applicants are            
  required to have a Dun and Bradstreet Data Universal Numbering System              
  (DUNS) number to apply for a grant from the Federal Government. The DUNS           
  number is a nine-digit identification number, which uniquely identifies business   
  entities. Obtaining a DUNS number is easy and there is no charge. To obtain a      
  DUNS number, access www.dunandbradstreet.com or call 1(866) 705-5711.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Successful applicants will receive a Notice of Grant Award (NGA) from the          
  CDC Procurement and Grants Office. The NGA shall be the only binding,              
  authorizing document between the recipient and CDC. The NGA will be signed         
  by an authorized Grants Management Officer, and mailed to the recipient fiscal     
  officer identified in the application.                                             
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Electronic applications must be successfully received by Grants.gov no later       
  than 5:00 p.m. local time (of the applicant institution/organization) on the       
  application submission/receipt date(s). Paper applications must be received on or  
  before 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the application submission/receipt date(s).       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 90 to 150 days.                                                               
Appeals:

  None.                                                                              
Renewals:

  Throughout the project period, CDC's commitment to continuation of awards          
  will be conditioned on the availability of funds, evidence of satisfactory progress
  by the recipient (as documented in required reports), and the determination that   
  continued funding is in the best interest of the Federal Government.               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Financial assistance is provided for a 12-month budget period with project         
  periods of up to 3 years subject to the availability of funds and satisfactory     
  progress of the grantee.                                                           
Reports:                                                                             
  Annual progress report, (PHS 2590, OMB Number 0925-0001,                           
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/2590/2590.htm) is due no less than 90 days    
  before the end of the budget period. The progress report will serve as the non-    
  competing continuation application. Financial status report is due no more than    
  90 days after the end of the budget period. Final financial and performance        
  reports due, no more than 90 days after the end of the project period.             
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt for Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, these grants are subject to inspection and     
  audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.                                        
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other        
  records pertinent to the project must be kept readily available for review by      
  personnel authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must be                
  maintained for a minimum of 3 years after the end of a budget period. If           
  questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of an audit, records must 
  be retained until completion or resolution of any audit in process or pending      
  resolution. Property records must be retained in accordance until the matter is    
  completely resolved.                                                               
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $26,839,324; FY 08 est $27,000,000; and FY 09 est                   
  $27,000,000.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Range: $35,000 / yr. to $1.6 million / yr.                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  FY 07: New funding for Translation Research (R18), Public Health Dissertation      
  Research (R36), Mentored Research Scientist Development Awards (K01),              
  Translation Worksite Health Promotion Research (R01); Continuation funding         
  for Institutional Research Training Grants (T01), Centers of Excellence in Health  
  Marketing and Health Communication (P01), and Centers of Excellence in             
  Public Health Informatics (P01).                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  45 CFR Part 74 and Part 92 For more information on the Code of Federal             
  Regulations, see the National Archives and Records Administration at the           


                                                                                11-08
  following Internet address: http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-
  search.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  For general questions about this program, contact: Dr. Juliana Cyril, Associate
  Director for Policy and Peer Review, CDC, Office of Public Health Research,
  1600 Clifton Rd., MS D-72, Atlanta, GA 30333, Telephone: (404) 693-4639 or
  Mattie Jackson, Grants Management Specialist, CDC, Procurement and Grants
  Office, 2920 Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-
  2696.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov or http://www.cdc.gov/od/science/PHResearch.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications that are complete and responsive to the FOA will be evaluated for
  scientific and technical merit by an appropriate peer review group convened by
  the Office of Public Health Research, CDC in accordance with the review
  criteria. As part of the initial merit review, all applications may: Undergo a
  process in which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific
  merit, generally the top half of the applications under review, will be discussed
  and assigned a priority score and receive a written critique.
93.063 CENTERS FOR GENOMICS AND PUBLIC HEALTH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 301 of the Public Health Service Act, Public Law 78-410, 42 U.S.C.
  241, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide technical assistance to community, State and regional organizations
  by responding to identified needs and requests for information assistance and
  training in genomics and population health for the health workforce, with a
  particular focus on enhancing knowledge and awareness of genomics
  applications among public health workers, and support the integration of
  genomics into population health research, policy and practice; provide
  competency based training, identify opportunities to serve as a credible and
  impartial provider of current information about genomics, participate in
  collaborative processes with other Centers, CDC and external partners and
  evaluate the achievements and impact of the Centers' activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Cooperative Agreement funds may not be used to support the provision of direct
  patient care, for facility or capital outlay, or to conduct research involving
  human subjects.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Universities, colleges, and research institutions.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Targeted State and community program capacity in genomics and population
  health will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  1)access to, and well-defined availability of, staff or collaborators with
  multidisciplinary expertise (epidemiology, public health practice, genomics,
  clinical genetics and medicine, policy, health communications and education);
  2)demonstrated ability to develop educational and practice collaborations among
  public, private, and academic partners, with emphasis on public health and
  health science institutions, State health departments and other agencies, health
  care organizations and community groups; 3)experience relevant to the specific
  objectives and activities of the program, particularly direct involvement with
  public health practice, improving population health, and integrating genomics
  into practice; and 4) expertise in needs assessment and planning and delivering
  technical assistance and training to public health workers or other health
  professionals.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in the State for more information on the
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review. When indicated in individual program
  announcements, applications are subject to review in accordance with the
  National Health Planning and Resources Development Act, Public Law 93-641,
  as amended. For the technical assistance component of this program, when
  indicated in individual program announcements, applications are eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is eligible for coverage under the
                                                                                  1247
