  Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Under these requirements, all           
  community-based nongovernmental applicants must report to the appropriate            
  State and/or local health agency as determined by the applicant.                     
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Technical Information Management, CDC Procurement and Grants Office, 2920            
  Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341.                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Successful applicants will receive a Notice of Grant Award (NGA) from the            
  CDC Procurement and Grants Office. The NGA shall be the only binding,                
  authorizing document between the recipient and CDC. The NGA will be signed           
  by an authorized Grants Management Officer, and mailed to the recipient fiscal       
  officer identified in the application.                                               
Deadlines:                                                                             
  4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the deadline date.                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  About 120 days from receipt of application.                                          
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Throughout the project period, CDC's commitment to continuation of awards            
  will be conditioned on the availability of funds, evidence of satisfactory progress  
  by the recipient as documented in required reports, and the determination that       
  continued funding is in the best interest of the Federal Government.                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Matching funds are not required for this program.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Assistance is available for a 12-month budget period within project periods

                                                                                       
  ranging from one to four years. After awards are issued, funds are released in       
  accordance with the payment procedure established by the grantee institution         
  with DHHS, which may be an Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cost

  Request System.                                                                      
Reports:                                                                               
  Current budget period activities objectives, current budget period financial         
  progress, new budget period program proposed activity objectives, budget,            
  additional requested information, measure of effectiveness, financial status         
  report by 90 days after the end of the budget and semi-annual progress report by     
  March 15 of each funding year. Final financial and performance reports by 90         
  days after the end of the project period.                                            
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations;"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are            
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government                
  officials.                                                                           
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records, support documents, statistical records, and all other records     
  pertinent to the project must be kept readily available for review by personnel      
  authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must be maintained for a           
  minimum of three years after the end of a budget period. If questions still          
  remain, such as those raised as a result of an audit, records must be retained until 
  completion or resolution of any audit in process or pending resolution.              
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $900,000; FY 08 $700,000; and FY 09 est $0.                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $900,000(Amount for the first 12-month period, including both direct and             
  indirect costs.) Floor of Award Range: $350,000, Ceiling of Award Range:             
  $900,000.                                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is the Federal Agency           
  responsible for disease and injury prevention. The agency also focuses on            
  prevention of disability and secondary conditions. As the Nation's prevention        
  agency CDC's vision for the 21st century is "Healthy People in a Healthy World"      
  reflecting the agency's concern that people's health is important both nationally    
  an internationally and that the environment is critical to health in the future. The 
  National Office of Public Health Genomics in collaboration with the Association      
  of Schools of Public Health funded cooperative agreements with three schools of      
  Public Health to establish the first Centers for Genomics and Public Health.         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  45 CFR Part 74 and Part 92. For information on the Code of Federal                   
  Regulations, see the National Archives and Records Administration at the             
  following Internet address: http://www.accessxgpo.gov/nara/cfr-table-                
  search.html.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Technical Information Management Section, CDC Procurement and Grants                 


1248                                                                             11-08

  Office, 2920 Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-
  2700.
Headquarters Office:
  Shirlene Elkins, National Office of Public Health Genomics, Office of the
  Director, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2877 Brandywine Road,
  Mail Stop K-89, Atlanta, GA 30341; Telephone: (770) 488-8434. Grants
  Management Contact: Hector Buitrago, Grants Management Specialist,
  Procurement and Grants Office, Center for Disease Control and Prevention
  (CDC), Department of Health and Human Services, 2920 Brandywine Road,
  Mail Stop K-14, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2921.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Three schools of Public Health to establish the first Centers for Genomics
  and Public Health. The goal for the initial 3-year project period was to establish
  regional hubs of expertise in genomics and population health by coordination
  existing institutional programs and reaching out to engage public health
  programs, health care providers and community groups, and to create the
  foundation for a national network of resource centers that could develop the
  capacity needed to respond to future needs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
93.064 LABORATORY TRAINING, EVALUATION, AND
QUALITY ASSURANCE PROGRAMS
   (Quality Assurance in Pathology and Laboratory Medicine)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 317(k)(2) of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 247b(k)(2), as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve the quality of laboratory genetic testing practices relevant to clinical
  and public health settings and to determine standardized approaches to quality
  assurance in pathology and laboratory medicine that can be applied in multiple,
  diverse settings (e.g. community hospitals, academic medical centers, and
  independent laboratories) that demonstrate measurable and sustainable
  improvements over time.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  None.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applications may be submitted by public and private nonprofit organizations
  and by governments and their agencies, such as: Public nonprofit organizations,
  private nonprofit organizations, universities, colleges, research institutions,
  hospitals, community and faith based organizations, State and local governments
  or their Bona Fide Agents (this includes the District of Columbia, the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the
  Northern Marianna Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Federated States of
  Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Applicants must have experience in the administration and evaluation of
  standardized quality assurance programs in multiple, diverse laboratory sites
  (including community hospitals and academic medical centers). This experience
  is required for an applicant to be able to assess the effectiveness of these quality
  assurance programs and to determine best practices.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Title 2 of the United States Code section 1611 states that an organization
  described in section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code that engages in
  lobbying activities is not eligible to receive Federal funds constituting an award,
  grant, or loan. For all other nonprofit grantees, costs will be determined in
  accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR 74, Subpart Q. For-profit
  organizations' costs are determined in accordance with the Federal Acquisition
  Regulations, 48 CFR 31.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under Executive Order 12372.
Application Procedure:
  To apply for this funding opportunity use application form PHS 5161.
  Application forms and instructions are available on the CDC web site, at the
  following Internet address: www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm If you do not
  have access to the Internet, or if you have difficulty accessing the forms on-line,
  you may contact the CDC Procurement and Grants Office Technical Information
  Management Section (PGO-TIM) staff at: Telephone: (770) 488-2700.
  Application forms can be mailed to you.
