Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications will be reviewed for completeness by the Procurement and Grants        
  Office (PGO) staff, and for responsiveness by the PHPPO. Incomplete                 
  applications and applications that are non-responsive to the eligibility criteria   
  will not advance through the review process. Applicants will be notified that       
  their application did not meet submission requirements. An objective review         
  panel will evaluate complete and responsive applications according to the           
  criteria listed in the "V.1. Criteria" section above. In addition, the following    
  factors may affect the funding decision: Preference may be given to                 
  organizations that routinely provide and/or utilize clinical or public health       
  genetic testing laboratory services. Preference may also be given to organizations  
  that have contributed to the development, or use of quality assurance programs      
  for genetic testing, have engaged in research or assessment of new technologies     
  and their implications for clinical and public health practice, have participated in
  activities relevant to the translation of research findings to clinical and public  
  health applications, and/or participated in efforts to develop domestic and         
  international genetic testing policies. Preferences may be given to organizations   
  that have expertise in heritable human conditions of public health significance     
  that can be applied to the efforts described in this program announcement in        
  such a way that results will be broadly applicable to other areas of genetic        
  testing. Lastly, preferences will be given to applications demonstrating            
  collaboration among clinical and public health entities in developing and           
  carrying out the work proposed. Entities can include clinical and public health     
  academic departments, state and local public health organizations, professional     
  organizations that focus on clinical and/or public health issues, and other such    
  groups.                                                                             
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From two to three months.                                                           
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Throughout the three year project period, CDC's commitment to continuation of       
  awards will be conditioned on the availability of funds, evidence of satisfactory   
  progress by the recipient (as documented in required reports), and the              
  determination that continued funding is in the best interest of the Federal         
  Government.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Financial assistance is provided for a 12 month budget period, with project         
  periods of up to three years.                                                       
Reports:

  Interim progress report, no less than 90 days before the end of the budget period.  
   1) The progress report will serve as your non-competing continuation               
  application, and must contain the following elements: current budget period         
  activities objectives, current budget period financial progress, new Budget         
  period program proposed activity objectives, budget, additional requested           
  information, measures of effectiveness; 2) Financial status report, no more than    
  90 days after the end of the budget period and; 3)Final financial and               
  performance reports, no more than 90 days after the end of the project period.      
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single, or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are           
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal governments              
  officials.                                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, including documents to support entries on accounting records     
  and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept readily available for       
  review by personnel authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must          
  be maintained for three years after the end of a budget period. If questions still  
  remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related records should be        
  retained until the matter is completely resolved.                                   
                                                                                      
Account Identification:

  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,405,000; FY 08 $2,644,196; and FY 09 est $2,400,000.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $100,000 to $500,000; $250,000.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  42 CFR 52; basic grant administration policies of DHHS and PHS are also             
  applicable, 45 CFR 74 and 45 CFR 92; PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS              


                                                                                 11-08
  publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994.
Regional or Local Office:
  For general questions about this announcement, contact: Technical Information
  Management Section, CDC Procurement and Grants Office, 2920 Brandywine
  Road, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: 770-488-2700. For program technical
  assistance, contact: Charlene Beach, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
  NCPDCID, DLS, 1600 Clifton Road, MS G25. Telephone: (404) 718-1039, Fax:
  (404) 718-1095, E-mail: CHO1@cdc.gov. For financial, grants management, or
  budget assistance, contact: Sharron Orum, Grants Management Specialist, CDC
  Procurement and Grants Office, 2920 Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341.
  Telephone: (770) 488-2716, E-mail: spo2@cdc.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Program POC: Charlene Beach, Telephone: (404) 718-1039; Email:
  CHO1@cdc.gov. Grants Management Officer contact is Sharron Orum.
  Telephone: (404) 488-2716, Grants Management Officer, Procurement and
  Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of
  Health and Human Services, 2920 Brandywine Road, Suite 3000, Atlanta, GA
  30341.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.283, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and
  Technical Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated based upon best practices in quality assurance
  methods for addressing pre-analytic components of laboratory testing, including
  the test requisition, quality assurance methods for addressing post-analytic
  components of laboratory testing, including the test report, assessments of
  laboratory practices which gather specific information related to technology
  assessment. This requires the development of specific and measurable objectives
  and a sound operational plan that includes laboratory genetic testing practices
  relevant to clinical and public health settings and standardized approaches to
  quality assurance in pathology and laboratory medicine that can be applied in
  multiple, diverse settings, demonstrate measurable and sustainable
  improvements over time.
93.065 LABORATORY LEADERSHIP, WORKFORCE
TRAINING AND MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT,
IMPROVING PUBLIC HEALTH LABORATORY
INFRASTRUCTURE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 317(k)(3), 42 U.S.C. 247b (k)(3), as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote and maintain a collaborative relationship with the Association of
  Public Health Laboratories (APHL) that includes the National Laboratory
  Training Network (NLTN) and the National Laboratory Partnership (NLP) for
  the purpose of improving public health laboratory infrastructure, maintaining a
  competent and trained laboratory workforce, promoting laboratory leadership
  activities to ensure future laboratory leaders, ensure laboratory preparedness for
  emerging infectious diseases or other biologic and chemical public health
  threats, promote technology transfer to ensure up-to-date technologies for the
  testing laboratory, and to enhance communication linkages between state and
  local public health laboratories, and the clinical laboratory testing community.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Improvement of public health laboratory infrastructure, state-of-the-art training
  for the nation's laboratorians to be prepared in dealing with public health threats,
  improving laboratory leadership capabilities, enhancing inter-laboratory
  communications. There are no restrictions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State governments, specifically State public health laboratories, particularly any
  organization representing state public health laboratories and having an
  established training network.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  This project represents the front line defense against health threats to the nation's
  public. The nation's public is the ultimate recipient of benefits from this
  program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. For all other nonprofit grantees, cost will be determined
  in accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR 74 Subpart Q. For-profit
                                                                                    1249
