  organizations' costs are determined in accordance with the Federal Acquisition      
  Regulations, 48 CFR 31.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  To apply for this funding opportunity use application form PHS 5161.                
  Application forms and instructions are available on www.grants.gov and/or the       
  CDC web site, at the following Internet address:                                    
  www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. If you do not have access to the Internet, or

  if you have difficulty accessing the forms on-line, you may contact the CDC         
  Procurement and Grants Office Technical Information Management Section

  (PGO-TIM) staff at: 770-488-2700. Application forms can be mailed to you.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Successful applicants will receive a Notice of Award (NoA) from the CDC             
  Procurement and Grants Office. The NoA shall be the only binding, authorizing       
  document between the recipient and CDC. The NoA will be signed by an                
  authorized Grants Management Officer, and mailed to the recipient fiscal officer    
  identified in the application. Unsuccessful applicants will receive notification of 
  the results of the application review by mail.                                      
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Applications must be received in the Centers for Disease and Prevention Control     
  (CDC) Procurement and Grants Office (PGO)by 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the           
  deadline date.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From two to three months.                                                           
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Throughout the project period, CDC's commitment to continuation of awards           
  will be conditioned on the availability of funds, evidence of satisfactory progress 
  by the recipient (as documented in required reports), and the determination that    
  continued funding is in the best interest of the Federal Government.                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Financial assistance is provided for a 12-month budget period with project          
  periods of up to five years subject to the availability of funds and satisfactory   
  progress of the grantee.                                                            
Reports:                                                                              
  (1)Interim progress report, no less than 90 days before the end of the budget       
  period. The progress report will serve as your non-competing continuation           
  application, and must contain the following elements: current budget period         
  activities objectives, current budget period financial progress, new budget period  
  program proposed activity Objectives, budget, additional requested information,     
  and measures of effectiveness; (2) Financial status report and annual progress      
  report, no more than 90 days after the end of the budget period; and (3) Final      
  financial and performance reports, no more than 90 days after the end of the        
  project period.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June           
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,        
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Financial and personnel records including financial awards, financial status        
  reports, interim reports, and final reports must be maintained for a period of      
  seven years.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $11,395,475; FY 08 $12,000,000; and FY 09 est $12,000,000.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $4,200,000 to $4,800,000; $4,700,000.                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local, and   
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher educations,        
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.              
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Frank Lochner, Interim Project Officer, Telephone: (404) 498-1117, National         
  Center for Health Marketing, E-mail: fel1@cdc.gov or Pamela Baker, Grants           
  Management Specialist, Procurement and Grants, Telephone: (770) 488-2689.           
  E-mail: fxz7@cdc.gov.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     


1250                                                                            11-08

  www.cdc.gov; or www.phppo.cdc.gov/dls.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposed program, Methods, Proposal Adequacy, Evaluation, Program
  Personnel and Budget (not scored).
93.066 STATE VITAL STATISTICS IMPROVEMENT
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 304 and 306.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of this Program is to improve the timeliness, quality and
  sustainability of the de-centralized vital statistics system by adopting nationally-
  developed, consensus standards and guidelines and by actively working with
  states to re-engineer their state-owned and operated systems using these
  standards/guidelines. Working collaboratively between State and Federal
  agencies, the goal is to facilitate the development and implementation of re-
  engineered systems in all 57 registration areas. These will be systems that can:
  (1)Provide quality and timely data for public health surveillance and medical
  research; (2) meet citizen needs for legal copies of their birth and death records,
  including providing paper copies of records to citizens for their immediate legal
  or personal use, and at citizens' request, transferring records electronically to
  local, State or Federal agencies to satisfy an agency's need for a record; meet
  Federal agencies' needs for record verification and authentication; (3) result in
  comparable vital registration/statistics systems in each state; 4)use national
  standards and guidelines, including the 2003 revision of the U.S. Standard
  Certificates of Birth and Death and the Report of Fetal Death, the ICD-10
  classification system, the FIPS geographic coding scheme, and the standard HL-
  7 vital events messaging; (5) Support national security and privacy
  requirements; (6) Integrate or harmonize easily with other public health systems
  such as Public Health Information Network (PHIN), immunization registries,
  and newborn screening, and (7) use Internet technology.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Restrictions, which must be taken into account while writing your budget, are as
  follows: Approved project plan required prior to expenditure of funds; all travel
  will need to be identified in the approved project plan; and purchase of computer
  hardware and software will require prior approval before expenditure.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An application may be submitted by public or private nonprofit organization
  whose primary mission is the support of state vital statistics and vital records
  programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  An application may be submitted by public or private nonprofit organization
  whose primary mission is the support of state vital statistics and vital records
  programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicant are required to provide measures of effectiveness that will
  demonstrate the accomplishment of the various identified objectives of the
  cooperative agreement. Measures must be objective and quantitative, and must
  measure the intended outcome. These measures of effectiveness must be
  submitted with the application and will be an element of evaluation.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  To apply for this funding opportunity use application form PHS 5161.
  Application forms and instructions are available on the CDC web site, at the
  following Internet address: www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm.
Award Procedure:
  Successful applicants will receive a Notice of Grant Award (NGA) from the
  CDC Procurement and Grants Office. The NGA shall be the only binding,
  authorizing document between the recipient and CDC. The NGA will be signed
  by an authorized Grants Management Officer, and mailed to the recipient fiscal
  officer identified in the application.
Deadlines:
  4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the deadline date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 120 days from receipt of application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Throughout the project period, CDC's commitment to continuation of awards
