  will be conditioned on the availability of funds, evidence of satisfactory progress 
  by the recipient as documented in required reports, and the determination that

  continued funding is in the best interest of the Federal Government.                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Matching funds are not required for this program.                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Assistance is available for a 12-month budget period within project periods         
  ranging from one to three years.                                                    
Reports:                                                                              
  You must provide CDC with an original, plus two hard copies of the following        
  reports: Mid-year progress report, no less than 30 days after the end of the sixth  
  month. This progress report must contain the following elements: Current            
  Budget Period Activities Objectives, current budget period accomplishments,         
  and any other requested information. Interim year-end report, no less than 90       
  days before the end of the budget period. This report will serve as your non-       
  competing continuation application, and must contain the following elements:        
  Current Budget Period Activities Objectives. current Budget Period Financial        
  Progress. New Budget Period Program Proposed Activity Objectives, budget,           
  additional Requested Information, and measures of Effectiveness. Financial          
  status report, no more than 90 days after the end of the budget period. Final       
  financial and performance reports, no more than 90 days after the end of the        
  project period.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations;"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject   
  to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government officials.            
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, support documents, statistical records, and all other records    
  pertinent to the project must be kept readily available for review by personnel     
  authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must be maintained for a          
  minimum of three years after the end of a budget period. If questions still         
  remain, such as those raised as a result of an audit, records must be retained until
  completion or resolution of any audit in process or pending resolution.             
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $171,500; FY 08 $571,500; and FY 09 est $500,000.                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Floor of award $171,500 and ceiling of award $571,500.                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) is the Federal Agency          
  responsible for disease and injury prevention. The agency also focuses on           
  prevention of disability and secondary conditions. As the Nation's prevention       
  agency CDC's vision for the 21st century is "Healthy People in a Healthy World"     
  reflecting the agency's concern that people's health is important both nationally   
  an internationally and that the environment is critical to health in the future.    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  45 CFR Part 74 and Part 92. For information on the Code of Federal                  
  Regulations, see the National Archives and Records Administration at the            
  following Internet address: http://www.accessxgpo.gov/nara/cfr-table-               
  search.html.                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Technical Information Management Section, CDC Procurement and Grants                
  Office, 2920 Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-              
  2700.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Delta Atkins, Project Officer, National Center for Health Statistics, Division of   
  Vital Statistics, Room 7315, 3311 Toledo Road, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782,         
  Telephone: 301-458-4467, E-mail: dxa9@cdc.gov. For financial, grants                
  management, or budget assistance, contact: Larry Guess, Grants Management           
  Specialist, Acquisition and Assistance Field Branch, CDC Procurement and            
  Grants Office, P.O. Box 18070, Cochran Mill Road, Pittsburg, PA 15236.              
  Telephone: (412) 386-6826, E-mail: lfg6@cdc.gov.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.cdc.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.283, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and               
  Technical Assistance.                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                     
                                                                                      
93.067 GLOBAL AIDS                                                                    
                                                                                      


                                                                                 11-08
   (FEDERAL AGENCY)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Sections 307 and 317(k)(2), Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 242l and
  247b(k)(2), as amended; United States Leadership Against HIV/AIDS,
  Tuberculosis and Malaria Act of 2003, Public Law 108-25, 22 U.S.C. 7601.
OBJECTIVES:
  By 2010, work with other countries, international organizations, the U.S.
  Department of State, USAID and other partners to achieve the United Nations
  General Assembly Special Session on HIV/AIDS goal of reducing prevalence
  among 15 to 24 years of age.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Reimbursement of pre-award costs is not allowed. No funds shall be used to
  distribute sterile needles or syringes for the hypodermic use of any illegal drug.
  Funds may be spent for reasonable program purposes, including personnel,
  travel, operating costs including supplies, fuel for transportation, utilities, staff
  training costs including registration fees and purchase and rental of training
  related equipment, renovation of clinical or lab facilities; and purchase of HIV
  testing reagents, test kits and laboratory equipment for HIV testing and services.
  Equipment may be purchased if deemed necessary to accomplish program
  objectives; however, prior approval by CDC officials must be requested in
  writing. All requests for funds contained in the budget shall be stated in U.S.
  dollars. Once an award is made, CDC will not compensate foreign grantees for
  currency exchange fluctuations through the issuance of supplemental awards.
  The costs that are generally allowable in grants to domestic organizations are
  allowable to foreign institutions and international organizations, with the
  following exception: With the exception of the American University, Beirut, and
  the World Health Organization (WHO), Indirect Costs will not be paid (either
  directly or through sub-award) to organizations located outside the territorial
  limits of the United States or to international organizations regardless of their
  location. The applicant may contract with other organizations under this
  program; however the applicant must perform a substantial portion of the
  activities (including program management and operations, and delivery of
  prevention services for which funds are required). You must obtain an annual
  audit of these CDC funds (program-specific audit) by a U.S. - based audit firm
  with international branches and current licensure/authority in-country, and in
  accordance with International Accounting Standards or equivalent standard(s)
  approved in writing by CDC. A fiscal Recipient Capability Assessment may be
  required, prior to or post award, in order to review the applicant's business
  management and fiscal capabilities regarding the handling of U.S. Federal funds.
  Prostitution and Related Activities The U.S. Government is opposed to
  prostitution and related activities, which are inherently harmful and
  dehumanizing, and contribute to the phenomenon of trafficking in persons. Any
  entity that receives, directly or indirectly, U.S. Government funds in connection
  with this document (recipient) cannot use such U.S. Government funds to
  promote or advocate the legalization or practice of prostitution or sex trafficking.
  Nothing in the preceding sentence shall be construed to preclude the provision to
  individuals of palliative care, treatment, or post-exposure pharmaceutical
  prophylaxis, and necessary pharmaceuticals and commodities, including test
  kits, condoms, and, when proven effective, microbicides. A recipient that is
  otherwise eligible to receive funds in connection with this document to prevent,
  treat, or monitor HIV/AIDS shall not be required to endorse or utilize a
  multisectoral approach to combating HIV/AIDS, or to endorse, utilize, or
  participate in a prevention method or treatment program to which the recipient
  has a religious or moral objection. Any information provided by recipients about
  the use of condoms as part of projects or activities that are funded in connection
  with this document shall be medically accurate and shall include the public
  health benefits and failure rates of such use. In addition, any foreign recipient
  must have a policy explicitly opposing, in its activities outside the United States,
  prostitution and sex trafficking, except that this requirement shall not apply to
  the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, the World Health
  Organization, the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative or to any United Nations
  agency, if such entity is a recipient of U.S. government funds
  inconnection with this document.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Competition is limited, or single eligibility by authorizing legislation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  This is only for non-research and research activities supported by CDC/ATSDR.
  For the definition of research, please see the CDC web site at the following
  Internet address: http://www.cdc.gov/od/ads/opspoll1.htm.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Your narrative should address activities to be conducted over the entire project
  period, and must include the following items in the order listed: 1)
  Organizational Experience; 2) Goals and Objectives; 3) Plan of Action; 4)
  Management plan, staffing, and infrastructure; and 5) Budget.
                                                                                    1251
