Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  To apply for this funding opportunity use application form PHS 5161.                 
  Application forms and instructions are available on the CDC web site, at the         
  following Internet address: www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. If you do not           
  have access to the Internet, or if you have difficulty accessing the forms on-line,  
  you may contact the CDC Procurement and Grants Office Technical Information          
  Management Section (PGO-TIM) staff at; Telephone: (770) 488-2700.                    
  Application forms can be mailed to you. Submit the original and two hard copies      
  of your application by mail or express delivery service to: Technical Information    
  Management, CDC Procurement and Grants Office, 2920 Brandywine Road,                 
  Atlanta, GA 30341. Applications may not be submitted electronically at this          
  time.                                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Successful applicants will receive a Notice of Grant Award (NGA) from the            
  CDC Procurement and Grants Office. The NGA shall be the only binding,                
  authorizing document between the recipient and CDC. The NGA will be signed           
  by an authorized Grants Management Officer, and mailed to the recipient fiscal       
  officer identified in the application.                                               
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Applications must be received in the CDC Procurement and Grants Office by            
  5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the deadline date.                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 90 to 120 days.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Renewals are made by competitive applications and Reviews.                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Matching funds are not required for this program.                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  From one to five years. Throughout the project period, CDC's commitment to           
  continuation of awards will be conditioned on the availability of funds, evidence    
  of satisfactory progress by the recipient (as documented in required reports), and

  the determination that continued funding is in the best interest of the Federal

  Government.

                                                                                       
Reports:                                                                               
  You must provide CDC with an original, plus two hard copies of the following         
  reports: 1) Interim progress report, due not less than 90 days before the end of

  the budget period. The progress report will serve as your non-competing              
  continuation application, and must contain the following elements: a. Current        
  Budget Period Activities Objectives; b. Current Budget Period Financial              
  Progress; c. New Budget Period Program Proposed Activity Objectives; d.              
  Budget; e. Measures of Effectiveness; and f. Additional Requested Information.       
  2) Annual progress report, due 30 days after the end of the budget period. This      
  report should detail all activities proposed for that budget period and their        
  current status. Explanation for any activities not completed within the budget       
  period should be included. 3)Financial status report, no more than 90 days after     
  the end of the budget period. 4)Final financial and performance reports, no          
  more than 90 days after the end of the project period.                               
Audits:                                                                                
  Foreign recipients are subject to audit requirements specified in 45 CFR             
  74.26(d). A non-Federal audit is required, if during the recipients fiscal year, the 
  recipient expended a total of $500,000.00 or more under one or more HHS              
  awards (as a direct recipient and/or as a subrecipient) . The recipient either may   
  have (1) A financial related audit (as defined in the Government Auditing            
  Standards, GPO stock #020-000-00-265-4) of a particular award in accordance          
  with Government Auditing Standards, in those case where the recipient receives       
  awards under only one HHS program; or, if awards are received under multiple         
  HHS programs, a financial related audit of all HHS awards in accordance with         
  Government Auditing Standards; or (2) An audit that meets the requirements           
  contained in OMB Circular A-133. Please forward a copy of the completed audit        
  to the following address: Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease         
  Control and Prevention, Attn: Grants Management Officer, 2920 Brandywine             
  Road, MS-K75, Atlanta, GA 30341. If your audit was completed in accordance           
  with number two (2) above, in addition to the address listed above, you are          
  required to send a copy of the audit report to: Department of Health & Human         
  Services, National External Audit Review Center Lucas Place, Room 514, 323           
  West 8th Street, Kansas City, MO 64105.                                              
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records, including documents to support entries on accounting records      
  and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept readily available for        
  review by personnel authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must           
  be maintained for three years after the end of a budget period. If questions still   
  remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related records should be         
  retained until the matter is completely resolved.                                    
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           


1252                                                                             11-08

  (Grants) FY 07 $499,757,780; FY 08 est $706,323,427; and FY 09 est
  $1,124,382,010.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $75,000 to $5,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  To date the President's Emergency Plan for Aids Relief has provided treatment
  to 1,358,500 people which equates to 3,192,439 years of life gained. In addition,
  6,637,600 people are receiving are receiving care worldwide.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR Part 74 and Part 92 For more information on the Code of Federal
  Regulations, see the National Archives and Records Administration at the
  following Internet address: http://www.access.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/cfr-table-
  search.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  Sherry Smallwood, Branch Chief, International Branch, (770)488-2632, 2920
  Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341.
Headquarters Office:
  Not applicable.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.283, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and
  Technical Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  GAP has almost 500 funded projects primarily supporting Prevention, Care, and
  Treatment of HIV/AIDS internationally.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be reviewed for completeness by the Procurement and Grants
  Office (PGO) staff, and for responsiveness by the National Center for HIV, STD
  and TB Prevention (NCHSTP). Incomplete applications and applications that
  are non-responsive to the eligibility criteria will not advance through the review
  process. Applicants will be notified that their application did not meet
  submission requirements. An objective review panel will evaluate complete and
  responsive applications.
93.068 CHRONIC DISEASES: RESEARCH, CONTROL,
AND PREVENTION
   (Research, Control, and Prevention)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 317(k)(2) of the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act), 42 U.S.C.
  247b(k)(2); Section 301(a) of the PHS Act, 42 U.S.C. 241(a); Section 307(a)
  and (b) of the PHS Act, 42 U.S.C. 242l(a) and (b).
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist State and local health agencies, health related organizations, and other
  public and private organizations in their efforts to prevent and control chronic
  diseases and disorders through research, development, capacity building, and
  intervention. To utilize research data to improve detection, diagnosis, treatment,
  and care of chronic diseases and their complications. To generate new
  knowledge related to chronic diseases that will improve health and quality of life
  and eliminate health disparities among segments of the population.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for costs associated with conducting research and
  surveillance of chronic diseases and their complications. Funds may also be
  used for program planning and development, to support capacity building, and
  for evaluation of chronic disease prevention and control programs. CDC will
  have substantial involvement with the award recipient during performance of the
  funded activity.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applications may be submitted by State or local governments or their Bona Fide
  Agents (this includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto
  Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianna Islands,
  American Samoa, Guam, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the
  Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau). Eligible applicants also include
  public and private nonprofit organizations, for profit organizations, small,
  minority, women-owned businesses, universities, colleges, research institutions,
  hospitals, community-based organizations, faith-based organizations, Federally
  recognized Indian tribal governments, Indian tribes, and Indian tribal
  organizations. Foreign institutions may be eligible for some specific programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The general public will benefit from the objectives of this program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the
  project, outline the method of operation, describe the evaluation procedures and
