  provide a budget justification of funds requested. Costs for nonprofit recipients 
  will be determined in accordance with HHS Regulations, 45 CFR Part 74,            
  Subpart Q.                                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Not required. Some specific programs may be eligible for coverage under E.O.      
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should        
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.        
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from the Grants     
  Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants              
  Office. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Telephone: (770) 488-2700.    
  The standard application forms must be used for this program as furnished by      
  the Public Health Service and requirement by OMB Circular No. A-110 for           
  nongovernmental applicants. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB      
  Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organization.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  After review and approval of an application, a notice of award is prepared and    
  processed, along with appropriate notification to the public.                     
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact the Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  From 3 to 6 months.

Appeals:

                                                                                    
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Project periods are for 1 to 5 years with 12-month budget periods. Applications   
  must be obtained from Grants Management Officer, Grants Management                
  Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and            
  Prevention. Telephone: (770) 488-2700.                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. Although there    
  are no matching requirements, applicants must assume part of the project cost     
  and fiscal information must be provided in the narrative portion of the           
  applications pursuant to provisions of Section 317 of the Public Health Service   
  Act.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  None.                                                                             
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual or semiannual progress reports are required. Financial status reports are  
  required no later than 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final         
  financial status and performance reports are required 90 days after the end of a  
  project period.                                                                   
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are         
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government             
  officials.                                                                        
Records:                                                                            
  There is a 3-year record retention requirement; records shall be retained beyond  
  the 3-year period if final audit has not been done or findings resolved. Property 
  records must be retained in accordance with PHS Grants Policy Statement           
  requirements.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $3,087,105; FY 08 est $4,400,000; and FY 09        
  est $4,000,000.                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $100,000 to $1,500,000; $500,000.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Regulations governing this program are published under 42 CFR Part 51b.           
  Guidelines are available in the application kit. PHS Grants Policy Statement No.  
  94- 50,000 (Revised) April 1, 1994.                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Program Contact: Extramural Research Program Office, Coordinating Center for      
  Health Promotion (CoCHP), Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC),       
  Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), Brenda Colley Gilbert,            
  4770 Buford Highway NE, Mailstop K-92, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone:              
  (770) 488-8390. Grants Management Contact: Hector Buitrago, Grants                


                                                                               11-08
  Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants
  Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road,
  Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2921.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov/ .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.283, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and
  Technical Assistance; 93.945, Assistance Programs for Chronic Disease
  Prevention and Control.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Assessment of Proposed Revisions to the Youth Tobacco Survey: Impact on
  Measures of Youth Tobacco Use; Vision Health: Developing an Integrative
  Approach for Promotion and Protection; Genomic Applications in Practice and
  Prevention (GAPP): Translation Research.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated based on: (1) Agreements between all agencies
  providing professional and/or supportive care, either voluntarily or for fees; (2) a
  description of the approach that will be used to provide prevention case
  management services; and (3) a description of how services will
  complement/expand existing agency primary and secondary services and
  specific criteria published in program guidance. All applications will be peer
  reviewed.
93.069 PUBLIC HEALTH EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION (CDC)
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act Sections 301, 307, 311, 317, and 319, Public Law
  108-111, Public Law 109-417, U.S.C. 247d-3.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop emergency-ready public health departments by upgrading,
  integrating and evaluating State and local public health jurisdictions
  preparedness for and response to terrorism, pandemic influenza, and other public
  health emergencies with Federal, State, local, and tribal governments, the private
  sector, and non-governmental organizations (NGOs). These emergency
  preparedness and response efforts are intended to support the National Response
  Plan (NRP) and the National Incident Management System (NIMS).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The distribution of funds will be to the health departments of all 50 States, the
  District of Columbia, the nation's three largest municipalities (New York City,
  Chicago and Los Angeles County), the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the
  Northern Mariana Islands, the territories of American Samoa, Guam and the
  U.S. Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republics of
  Palau and the Marshall Islands.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State health departments of all 50 States, the District of Columbia, the nation's
  three largest municipalities (New York City, Chicago and Los Angeles County),
  the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands, the
  territories of American Samoa, Guam and the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Federated
  States of Micronesia, and the Republics of Palau and the Marshall Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All State and Local Health Departments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual CDC Guidance documents issued under
  this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  CDC provides an Internet-based system for submitting applications, including
  narrative and budget, electronically. This system will also enable applicants to
  complete most required forms electronically, which can then be signed and
  uploaded into the system. Applicants are required to use this system in lieu of
  paper-based applications. Under separate cover, CDC will provide detailed
  instructions on obtaining a digital certificate to access the CDC web portal
  https://sdn.cdc.gov and use the electronic application system. This program is
  subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92, as appropriate.
Award Procedure:
  After review and approval of an application, a notice of award is made in writing
  and issued by the Grants Management Officer, Procurement and Grants Office,
  CDC. Also, appropriate notification is made to the public.
Deadlines:
                                                                                   1253
