  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 2 to 3 months.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Project periods are for 5 years with 12-month budget periods. Applications must      
  be submitted in the same manner as a new application.                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Formula and Matching Requirements This program has no statutory formula or           
  matching requirements.                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Awards are made annually and assistance is available for a 12-month budget           
  period. There are five separate budget periods within the 5-year project period.     
  After awards are issued, funds are released in accordance with DHHS payment          
  procedures, which may be through an Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly          
  Cash Request System.                                                                 
Reports:                                                                               
  Semiannual and year end progress reports are required. Financial status reports      
  are required no later than 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final        
  financial status and performance reports are required 90 days after the end of a     
  project period.                                                                      
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are            
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government                
  officials.                                                                           
Records:                                                                               
  Grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records for a minimum of          
  three years after the end of a grant period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation,  
  audit or other act ion involving the record has been started before the expiration   
  of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action   
  and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3- 
  year period, whichever is later. More detailed information regarding retention       
  requirements is provided in 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92.

Account Identification:

  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $897,166,530; FY 08 $704,867,418; and FY

                                                                                       
  09 est $694,096,980.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                       
  FY 07 $471,804 to $65,303,030.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                       
  Improved Preparedness at State and Local Levels: Over $4.9 billion in PHEP

                                                                                       
  cooperative agreement funding has been awarded to state and local agencies

                                                                                       
  since 2002 with a Grantee base of 62 grantees, including 50 states, 8 territories,

                                                                                       
  District of Columbia, Chicago, Los Angeles County, and New Your City. All

                                                                                       
  states have bioterrorism response plans in place (few states had such planning in

                                                                                       
  2001). All states have pandemic influenza plans as well as plans in place for

                                                                                       
  receiving and distributing assets from the Strategic National Stockpile and are

                                                                                       
  exercising those plans. Ninety-six percent of states have a crisis and emergency

                                                                                       
  risk communication plan. Ninety-eight percent of states have individuals

                                                                                       
  assigned to receive and evaluate urgent disease reports 24 hours, 7 days a week,

                                                                                       
  365 days a year. All states have protocols in place to activate the public health

                                                                                       
  emergency response system 24 hours, 7 days a week, 365 days a year. Increased        
  Laboratory Capacity: $492 million annually since 2002 has been utilized by           
  states to bolster Epidemiology and Surveillance, Laboratory Capacity and             
  Communication -key functions of public health response. There are more than          
  150 Laboratory Response Network (LRNs) with at least one in every state (up          
  from 91 labs in 2001). More than $75 million has been awarded to state and           
  local health departments to increase chemical lab capacity. Comprehensive            
  Approach: The program has migrated cooperative agreement guidance from a             
  focus area approach to a comprehensive all hazards approach that infuses             
  performance and accountability within the framework of CDC preparedness              
  goals and the National Response Plan (NRP).                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and     
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,          
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.               
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Program Contact: Susan True, Branch Chief, Program Services Branch,                  
  Division of State and Local Readiness, Coordinating Office of Terrorism              
  Preparedness and Emergency Response, Centers for Disease Control and                 


1254                                                                             11-08

  Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services, 1600 Clifton Road,
  N.E., Mailstop D29, Atlanta, GA 30333. Telephone: (404) 639-5998. Grants
  Management Contact: Nealean Austin, Grants Management Officer, Branch VI,
  Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
  2920 Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2771.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  For FY 08, the emphasis of this project will be to upgrade State and local public
  health jurisdiction's preparedness and response to bioterrorism, outbreaks of
  infectious diseases, and other public health threats and emergencies. Enacted in
  December 2006, The Pandemic and All-Hazards Preparedness Act (PAHPA,
  Public Law 109-417 42 U.S.C. 247d-3a) requires project activities to meet the
  following goals: (1) Integrating public health and public and private medical
  capabilities with other first responder systems; (2) Developing and sustaining
  essential State, local, and tribal public health security capabilities, including
  disease situational awareness, disease containment, risk communication and
  public preparedness, and the rapid distribution and administration of medical
  countermeasures; (3) Addressing the public health and medical needs of at-risk
  individuals in the event of a public health emergency; (4) Minimizing
  duplication and assuring coordination among State, local, and tribal planning,
  preparedness, and response activities (including Emergency Management
  Assistance Compact). Such planning shall be consistent with the National
  Response Framework or any successor plan, the National Incident Management
  System, and the National Preparedness Goal; (5) Maintaining vital public health
  and medical services to allow for optimal federal, State, local, and tribal
  operations in the event of a public health emergency; and (6) Developing and
  testing an effective plan for responding to pandemic influenza.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The applicants must submit their application in accordance with appropriate
  program guidance. Applications will be reviewed for completeness by the
  Procurement and Grants Office staff and for technical acceptability by the
  Coordinating Office of Terrorism Preparedness and Emergency Response and
  CDC subject matter experts. Incomplete applications and applications that are
  non-responsive to the eligibility criteria will not advance through the review
  process. Applicants will be notified that their application did not meet
  submission requirements.
93.071 MEDICARE ENROLLMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM
   Medicare Enrollment Assistance Program
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION ON AGING, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Medicare Improvements for Patients and Providers Act of 2008, Public Law
  110-275.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide outreach to eligible Medicare beneficiaries regarding the benefits
  available under title XVIII of the Social Security Act, including the Medicare
  prescription drug benefit under Part D of title XVIII of the Social Security Act
  and under the Medicare Savings Program, and to coordinate efforts to inform
  older Americans about benefits available under Federal and state programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may not be used for: (a) construction and/or major rehabilitation of
  buildings; (b) basic research (e.g., bio-medical experiments); (c) continuation
  and/or expansion of existing services, and (d) medical care, institutional care or
  income maintenance. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments, OMB Circular A-21 for
  Educational Institutions, and OMB Circular A-122 for Non-Profit
  Organizations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Formula grants: State governments and U.S. Territories, with distribution to
  designated area agencies on aging and Indian Tribal Organizations through an
  approved State plan. Project grants: Grants may be made to any public or
  nonprofit private agency, organization, or institution.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals eligible for Medicare benefits, including Part D drug benefits, and
  older persons eligible for benefits and services provided under Federal and state
  programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Formula Grants - AoA will utilize appropriate census and Medicare coverage
  data to identify statutory target populations. Project Grants -- Nonprofit
  organizations must submit proof of nonprofit status. Applicable costs and
