  administrative procedures will be determined in accordance with Parts 74 and 92  
  of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations.                                  
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                         
Application Procedure:

  Formula Grants - Grant applications are in accordance with program               
  announcements developed by the Administration on Aging (AoA) and will be         
  posted on www.grants.gov. Project Grants - The availability of competitive       
  grant funds is announced via program announcement that is simultaneously         
  published on www.grants.gov and on the AoA web site at www.aoa.gov/doing         
  bus/fundopp/fundopp.asp.                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Formula Grants - The Administration on Aging awards funds through a statutory    
  formula to State Agencies on Aging. State agencies approve and award funds to    
  Indian Tribal Organizations, Area Agencies on Aging and Aging and Disability     
  Resource Centers. Project Grants - Notification of award will be issued to the   
  grantee.                                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                         
  As specified in each program announcement posted on www.grants.gov and           
  www.aoa.gov/doingbus/fundopp/fundopp.asp.                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  From 60 to 90 days from receipt of application.                                  
Appeals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                            
Renewals:                                                                          
  Formula Grants - State plans are submitted for one-year period, with annual      
  revisions. Project Grants - Grant extensions are available and may be requested. 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  There is no matching requirement.                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Formula Grants - One year. Project Grants - One to Five Years.                   
Reports:                                                                           
  Financial status reports and program progress reports are required semi-annually 
  for formula and project grants, including a final report at the end of each grant
  year.                                                                            
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June      
  24, 1997), "Audits of State and Local Governments, and Nonprofit                 
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit         
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a    
  year in Federal awards is exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,  
  except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                       
Records:                                                                           
  Financial records must be kept available for 3 years after submission of         
  expenditure reports in accordance with the regulations at 45 CFR Parts 74 and    
  92.                                                                              
Account Identification:                                                            
  75-0142-0-1-506.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est $17,500,000.

                                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                   
  Formula Grants - $50,000 to $600,000; $250,000. Project Grants - $5,000,000

                                                                                   
  to $5,000,000; $5,000,000.

                                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                   
  The Medicare Enrollment Assistance Program is a new program in Fiscal Year

                                                                                   
  2009.

                                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                   
  Formula Grants - 45 CFR 92. Project Grants - 45 CFR 74, HHS Grants Policy

  Statement, located at: http://www.hhs.gov/grantsnet/adminis/gpd/index.htm.       
                                                                                   
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                   
  Regional Administrator, Administration on Aging, Department of Health and

                                                                                   
  Human Services, located at all HHS Federal Regional Offices. (See Appendix IV

  of the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance for addresses.)                    
                                                                                   
Headquarters Office:

  Mimi Toomey, Administration on Aging; Department of Health and Human             
  Services, Washington, DC 20201; Telephone: (202) 357-0141. E-mail:               
                                                                                   
  Mimi.Toomey@aoa.hhs.gov.

                                                                                   
Web Site Address:

  http://www.aoa.gov. For information on current funding opportunities and         
  associated application forms, visit: http://www.grants.gov.                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  93.770, Medicare Prescription Drug Coverage.                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  None.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Awards are made on a non-competitive basis. State Grants are awarded upon        
  approval of a State Plan.                                                        
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   


                                                                              11-08
93.086 HEALTHY MARRIAGE PROMOTION AND
RESPONSIBLE FATHERHOOD GRANTS
   (Healthy Marriage Promotion and Responsible Fatherhood Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Social Security Act, Title IV, Part A, Section 403(a)(2) as included in the Deficit
  Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA), Public Law 109-171.
OBJECTIVES:
  Included four objectives: (1) To fund Healthy Marriage Promotion activities that
  will help couples, who have chosen marriage for themselves, gain greater access
  to marriage education services on a voluntary basis. These services will help
  couples acquire the skills and knowledge necessary to form and sustain a healthy
  marriage; (2) To fund Responsible Fatherhood promotion activities specifically
  designed to promote responsible fatherhood to reverse the rise in father absence
  and its subsequent impact on our nation's children. ACF will award these funds
  on a competitive basis to States, territories, Indian tribes and tribal
  organizations, and public and nonprofit community entities, including faith-
  based organizations; (3) To award competitive based demonstration projects
  designed to test the effectiveness of tribal governments or tribal consortia in
  coordinating the provision to tribal families at risk of child abuse or neglect of
  child welfare services and services under tribal programs funded under this part;
  and, (4) To provide technical assistance by the Federal government to States,
  Indian tribes and tribal organizations, receiving a grant for any program funded
  under this part.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Secretary may not award funds on a noncompetitive basis, and may not
  provide any such funds to an entity for the purpose of carrying out healthy
  marriage promotion activities or for the purpose of carrying out activities
  promoting responsible fatherhood unless the entity has submitted to the
  Secretary an application which describes how the programs or activities
  proposed in the application will address, as appropriate, issues of domestic
  violence; and what the applicant will do, to the extent relevant, to ensure that
  participation in the programs or activities is voluntary, and to inform potential
  participants that their participation is voluntary; and contains a commitment by
  the entity to not use the funds for any other purpose; and to consult with experts
  in domestic violence or relevant community domestic violence coalitions in
  developing the programs and activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Healthy Marriage and Responsible Fatherhood grants were awarded one
  time for a five-year (5) project period. The awards were made final in
  September 2006 and will run for five consecutive years up through September
  2011. There are no subsequent competitive awards for this program. Eligible
  organizations for Healthy Marriage Grants in general were public and private
  entities. This included, but was not limited to: States; County governments; City
  or township governments; Special district governments; State controlled
  institutions of higher education; Native American tribes and tribal organizations;
  Nonprofit organizations; Private organizations of higher education; For-profit
  organizations; and faith-based and community organizations. Application
  Eligibility for Responsible Fatherhood Grants included: States; territories; Indian
  tribes and tribal organizations; and public and non-profit community entities,
  including Faith-based organizations. Application Eligibility for Tribal TANF
  Child Welfare TA Grants includes Native American Tribal governments.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Families, couples, individuals in need of assistance with marriage enhancement
  and relationship education, parenting education, economic stability services. In
  general these funds will assist in the efforts to enhance and expand the ability of
  States, Native American governments, local governments, for-profit
  organizations, non-profit community organizations and other public entities to
  provide family formation services to those in need.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Any nonprofit agency was required to provide proof of its nonprofit status
  through one of the following: (a) A reference to the applicant organization's
  listing in the Internal revenue Service's (IRS) most recent list of tax-exempt
  organizations described in the IRS code. (b) A copy of a currently valid IRS tax
  exemption certificate (c) A statement from a State taxing body, State Attorney
  General, or other appropriate State official certifying that the applicant
  organization has a nonprofit status and that none of the net earnings accrue to
  any private shareholders or individuals. (d) A certified copy of the
  organization's certificate of incorporation or similar document that clearly
  establishes nonprofit status. (e) Any of the items in the subparagraphs
  immediately above for a State or national parent organization and a statement
  signed by the parent organization that the applicant organization if it's local
  nonprofit affiliate.
Preapplication Coordination:
                                                                                  1255
