  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs. The applicants were advised that they should            
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or  
  her State for more information on the process the State required to be followed     
  in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. In    
  addition, the legislation requires that applicants consult with experts in domestic 
  violence or relevant community domestic violence coalitions in developing their     
  programs and activities. Therefore, applicants were required to engage in this      
  process before the official application is submitted.                               
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicants needed to complete all the standard forms required for making            
  application for awards under this announcement. Applicants that requested           
  financial assistance submitted Standard Forms 424, 424A, 424B and the               
  associated certifications and assurances. Specific instructions were published in   
  the official program announcement.                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications received by the due date were reviewed and scored competitively.       
  Experts in the field, generally persons from outside the Federal government, used   
  the evaluation criteria listed in Part V of the Program Announcement to review      
  and score the applications. The results of the review were a primary factor in      
  making funding decisions. ACF may also solicit comments from Regional               
  Office staff and other Federal agencies. ACF may consider a variety of factors in   
  addition to the review criteria identified above, including geographic              
  diversity/coverage and types of applicant organizations, in order to ensure that    
  the interests of the Federal Government are met in making the final selections.     
  The successful applicants were notified through issuance of a Financial             
  Assistance Award document which set forth the amount of funds granted, the          
  terms and conditions of the grant, the budget period for which initial support      
  will be given, the nonfederal share to be provided, and the total project period    
  for which support is contemplated.                                                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  The Healthy Marriage and Responsible Fatherhood grant deadlines have closed.        
  All awards for these programs were made in September 2006. The grants were          
  one time for a five-year (5) period through September 2011. No other                
  applications are being accepted and no future funding is anticipated.               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Range of Approval/Disapproval Time: All grants were approved/disapproved            
  within the 60-90 day period.                                                        
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards were made for five-year project periods, funding for years 2 thru 5 are      
  not competitive and will depend upon satisfactory performance and availability      
  of funds.                                                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Cost sharing or matching requirements were provided in the official program         
  announcement.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The grants were awarded for project periods of up to five years. Awards,            
  however, were made on a competitive basis, for a one-year budget period.            
  Applications for continuation grants funded under these awards beyond the one-      
  year budget period but within the five-year project period will be entertained in

  subsequent years on a noncompetitive basis, subject to availability of funds,       
  satisfactory progress of the grantee and a determination that continued funding

  would be in the best interest of the government.

                                                                                      
Reports:                                                                              
  Grant recipients are required to submit semi-annual program reports; grantees       
  are also required to submit semi-annual expenditure reports using the required      
  financial standard form (SF-269) which is located on the Internet under the         
  "Forms" section at: http://www.acf.hhs.gov/grants/index.html. A suggested

  format for the program report is sent to all grantees after the awards are made.    
Audits:                                                                               
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.       
  These provisions are also outlined in OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  24, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,        
  non-federal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from the Federal audit requirements for that year, except as      
  noted in Circular No. A-133.                                                        
Records:                                                                              
  All financial records are to be maintained for 3 years after termination of the     
  project or until audit is completed, whichever occurs first.                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-1552-1-0-506.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $150,000,000; FY 08 $150,000,000; and FY 09 est $150,000,000.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Healthy Marriage Grants range from $250,000 to $3,250,000 depending on the          
  scope of the project. Average award: $1,000,000. Responsible Fatherhood             


1256                                                                            11-08

  Grants will range from $200,000 to $1,000,000 depending on the scope of the
  project. Average award: $700,000. Tribal TANF Child Welfare Grants will range
  from $25,000 to $100,000. Average Award: $140,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In September 2006, ACF's Office of Family Assistance (OFA) awarded 226
  grants from the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA) Healthy Marriage and
  Promoting Responsible Fatherhood. One hundred twenty six (126) grants were
  for Healthy Marriage and 100 grants for Promoting Responsible Fatherhood.
  OFA received a total of 1,653 applications. Healthy Marriage applications
  totaled 828, and 825 for Responsible Fatherhood. Healthy Marriage and
  Responsible Fatherhood grants were distributed across 47 States and 1 Territory.
   Grantees are currently in the implementation phase of their projects. This has
  resulted in a marked increase in the provision of healthy marriage and
  fatherhood promotional activities, marriage and parenting education,
  relationship and economic skills development, and training across the country.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Family Assistance (OFA), Administration for Children and Families,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, 5th Floor
  East, Washington, DC 20447. Contact: Robin McDonald; Telephone: (202) 401-
  5587 (office); Fax: (202) 205-5887.
Web Site Address:
  www.acf.hhs.gov/healthymarriage/index.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Healthy Marriage Promotion grants provide married and unmarried individuals
  with skilled base marriage education training. Promotion Responsible
  Fatherhood grants provides marriage, parenting and economic stability training.
  The majority of the grant amount provides services to low-income families.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The criteria used for selecting successful proposals were as follows: approach,
  objectives and need for assistance, organizational profiles, evaluation and budget
  and budget justification. The needs of target populations to be served and the
  needs of communities to be served are factors for evaluating the objectives and
  need for assistance of the applicant. The staff and position data and past
  experience were factors used to evaluate the organizational profile of the
  applicant. Applicants were evaluated under the budget and budget justification
  criteria on the extent to which they include a budget that is clear, easy to
  understand, and provided a detailed justification for the amount requested.
  Under the approach criterion, applicants were evaluated on the extent to which
  the specific goals and activities of the proposed project were highly innovative,
  reasonable, quantified, and directly support the authorized activities outlined in
  the legislation. The official evaluation criteria were published as a part of the
  program announcement, which was posted at www.grants.gov and
  www.acf.hhs.gov/healthymarriage/index.html. Applications for discretionary
  grants were subject to a competitive peer review process leading to
  recommendations for approval or disapproval.
93.087 ENHANCE THE SAFETY OF CHILDREN AFFECTED
BY PARENTAL METHAMPHETAMINE OR OTHER
SUBSTANCE ABUSE
  (Targeted Grants to Increase the Well-Being of, to Improve the
  Permanency Outcomes for, and Enhance the Safety of Children Affected by
  Parental Methamphetamine or Other Substance Abuse)-
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Child and Family Services Improvement Act of 2006, Public Law 109-288.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide, through interagency collaboration and integration of programs
  activities and services that are designed to increase the well-being of, improve
  permanency outcomes for, and enhance the safety of children who are in an out-
  of-home placement or are at risk of being placed in an out-of-home placement as
  a result of a parent's or caretaker's methamphetamine or other substance abuse.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Contracts).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are provided for services or activities that are consistent with the purpose
  of section 437(f) of Title IV-B of the Social Security Act and may include the
  following: (1) family-based comprehensive long-term substance abuse treatment
  services; (2) early intervention and preventative services; (3) children and family
  counseling; (4) mental health services; (5) parenting skills training; (6)
  replication of successful models for providing family-based comprehensive long-
