  term substance abuse treatment services. Other suggested activities and services     
  are listed in the program announcement.                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State governments, County governments, Local Governments, City or township           
  governments, Regional Organizations, U.S. Territory or Possession, Independent       
  school districts, Public and State-controlled institutions of higher education,      
  Indian/Native American Tribal governments (Federally recognized),                    
  Indian/Native American Tribal organizations (other than Federally recognized),       
  Indian/Native American Tribally Designated Organizations, Public/Indian              
  Housing Authorities, Non-profits with 501(c)(3) IRS status (other than               
  institutions of higher education), Non-profits without 501(c)(3) IRS status (other   
  than institutions of higher education), Private institutions of higher education,    
  For-profit organizations (other than small businesses), Small businesses,            
  Hispanic-Serving Institutions, Historically Black Colleges and Universities          
  (HBCUs), Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities (TCCUs), Alaska               
  Native and Native Hawaiian Serving Institutions, and Special district                
  governments. Foreign entities are not eligible under this announcement.              
  Applications must represent regional partnerships formed by a collaborative          
  agreement. Applications must identify a primary applicant responsible for            
  administering the grant. The primary applicant must be one of the regional           
                                                                                       
  partnership organizations listed below. The primary applicant cannot be an

                                                                                       
  individual. The regional partnership must include either the State child welfare

                                                                                       
  agency that is responsible for the administration of the State plan under title IV-

                                                                                       
  B or title IV-E of the Social Security Act or an Indian tribe or tribal consortium

                                                                                       
  but the regional partnership may not consist of only State entities.

                                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  Agencies or organizations serving children and families who have experienced

                                                                                       
  or are at risk of experiencing an out of home placement as a result of a parent's

                                                                                       
  or caregivers methamphetamine or other substance abuse.

                                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                       
  Non-profit agencies must submit proof of nonprofit status. Applicable costs and

                                                                                       
  administrative procedures will be determined in accordance with Parts 74 and 92

                                                                                       
  of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations.

                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  Standard application forms as furnished by DHHS must be used for this

  program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                     
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult          
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State

  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying    
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.

Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Announcement of availability of funds is posted to grants.gov. Eligible              
  applicants submit applications by specified deadlines.                               
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Grant applications are reviewed by a panel of non-federal professionals with         
  expertise in the fields of child welfare and substance abuse treatment. Final        
  decisions are made by the Commissioner, Administration for Children, Youth           
  and Families (ACYF).                                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                             
  This program was announced and grants awarded in FY 2007 for 3 and 5 years.          
  There is no additional announcement anticipated for this program in FY 2008 or       
  FY 2009.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 3 to 6 months.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  Appeals are processed in accordance with HHS regulations in 45 CFR Part 16.          
Renewals:                                                                              
  Projects are awarded with a provision for non-competitive renewal during the         
  selected award period (3 or 5 years).                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  The required match must increase over the course of the grant period, such that      
  grantees must contribute 15 percent of the costs of grant-funded services and        
  activities in FY 2007 and FY 2008, 20 percent of such costs in FY 2009 and FY        
  2010, and 25 percent of such costs in FY 2011.                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Grants were available for a 36- or 60-month period. Renewal funding for              
  multiple-year grants is dependent upon grantee performance and availability of       
  funds.                                                                               
Reports:                                                                               
  Financial and program reports are required semiannually with a final report at       
  completion of the project. In addition, grantees must select and track               
  performance indicators that measure the extent to which grant-funded activities      
  and services enhance the safety, permanency, and well-being of children and          
  their families.                                                                      
Audits:                                                                                
  Audits are conducted in accordance with requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.            
Records:                                                                               
  All financial records are to be maintained for 3 years after termination of the      
  project or until audit is completed, whichever comes first.                          
Account Identification:                                                                


                                                                                 11-08 
  75-1512-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $40,000,000; FY 08 $35,000,000; and FY 09
  $30,000,000. (Note: The funds in this program are also available for contracts.
  The amounts for contracts cannot be predetermined.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $500,000 to $1,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 1340.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Headquarters Office: Catherine Luby, Federal Project Office, Office on Child
  Abuse and Neglect, Children's Bureau, 1250 Maryland Avenue, S.W.,
  Washington, DC 20024, 8th Floor. Telephone: (202) 205-8879. FTS is not
  available.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/cb .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.600, Head Start; 93.643, Children's Justice Grants to States; 93.648, Child
  Welfare Services Training Grants; 93.669, Child Abuse and Neglect State
  Grants; 93.645, Child Welfare Services_State Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are evaluated on the basis of the degree to which proposals meet
  specific objectives defined in the program announcement including, but not
  limited to: (1) demonstration of regional impact of methamphetamine or other
  substance abuse; (2) organizational capacity to collaborate with other service
  providers; and (3) relevance of proposed services and activities in enhancing the
  well-being of children in foster care or at risk of foster care due to a parent's or
  caretaker's substance abuse.
93.088 ADVANCING SYSTEM IMPROVEMENTS TO
SUPPORT TARGETS FOR HEALTHY PEOPLE 2010
   (ASIST2010)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES, OFFICE ON WOMEN'S HEALTH
AUTHORIZATION:
  This program is authorized by 42 U.S.C. 300u-2(a).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide three years of additional support to existing public health
  systems/collaborative partnerships to enable them to add a gender focus to HP
  2010 objectives that track the health status of women and/or men, to help
  improve gender outcomes in the targeted population and/or geographic area. To
  improve surveillance/information systems that allow tracking of program
  progress on HP 2010 objectives at the grantee level. To develop and implement a
  plan to sustain the program after OWH funding ends. To use a public health
  systems approach to improve performance on two or more HP 2010 objectives
  that target women and/or men in Focus Areas 1, Access to Quality Health
  Services, 3-Cancer, 5-Diabetes, 7-Educational and Community-Based Programs,
  and 12-Heart Disease and Stroke.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to implement evidence-based strategies to achieve the
  applicants and the Office on Women's Health (OWH), OWH's program
  objectives. Funds may not be used for construction, building alterations,
  equipment, printing, food, and medical treatment.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are public and private organizations (public and private
  academic institutions and hospitals); community-based and faith-based
  organizations, and medical groups/practices with existing funding lasting
  through September 30, 2010, that will help support the proposed ASIST 2010
  activities; State, county, and local health departments, and tribes and tribal
  organizations with expertise/experience in the proposed objectives. The
  applicant must be part of an existing public health system/collaborative
  partnership. At least a third of the partners should have demonstrated
  experience addressing gender differences through appropriate interventions,
  programs, or research related to the selected objectives.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Women and men across the life span.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
                                                                                    1257
