  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental            
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review. The application kit to be made            
  available under this notice will contain a listing of States that have chosen to set 
  up a review system and will include a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in        
  the State for review. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribes)     
  should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective     
  applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For        
  proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to           
  contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process              
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office on             
  Women's Health does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its            
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date.                 
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application kits may be obtained by accessing Grants.gov at                          
  http://www.grants.gov or the eGrants system at http://www.GrantSolutions.gov .       
  To obtain a hard copy of the Application Kit, contact WilDon Solutions at            
  1(888) 203-6161. Applicants may fax a written request to WilDon Solutions at         
  (240) 453-8823 or email the request to OPHSgrantinfo@teamwildon.com .                
  Applications must be prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in           
  Adobe Acrobat format at the following website:                                       
  http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. The Office of Public Health and              
  Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the submission of                    
  applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from the OPHS Office     
  of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications submitted using          
  any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS Office of Grants         
  Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review and will be           
                                                                                       
  returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be extended.

                                                                                       
  Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant

                                                                                       
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the

                                                                                       
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic      
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any            
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,     
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,       
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the        
  OPHS eGrants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.                 
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS eGrants Web site,             
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be              
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline will be returned without comment.            
  Accepted applications will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with        
  PHS policies. Applications will be evaluated by a technical review panel             
  composed of experts. Funding decisions will be made by the OWH and will take         
  into consideration the recommendations and ratings of the review panel;              
  recommendations made based on the pre-award site visit; program needs, stated        
  preferences; and, geographic location.

Deadlines:

  No later than 5:00 p.m. Eastern time 90 calendar days after publication in the       
  Federal Register (FR). The application due date in the FR announcement               
  supersedes the instructions in the Form OPHS-1.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 90 days from the application deadline due date.                        
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Project period is for 3 year.                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                       
  Project period is not to exceed 3 years.

                                                                                       
Reports:

  The applicant will a submit quarterly progress report on December 10, March          
  10, June 10, and August 10 of each year and a Financial Status Report 90 days        
                                                                                       
  after the close of each 12-month budget period. The June 10 report will serve as

                                                                                       
  the non-competing renewal application. An original and two copies of the non-

                                                                                       
  competing renewal application must be submitted no later than June 10. The

                                                                                       
  final program report is due 30 days after the close of the project period (August

                                                                                       
  31, 2010). The purpose of the progress reports is to provide accurate and timely

                                                                                       
  program information to program managers and to respond to Congressional,

                                                                                       
  Departmental, and public requests for information about the program.

                                                                                       
Audits:

                                                                                       
  In accordance with: the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                       
  30, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,

                                                                                       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                       
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                       
1258                                                                             11-08

  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.
Account Identification:
  75-0120-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  FY 08 $4,000,000; FY 09 $4,000,000; and FY 10 $4,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The OWH anticipates making 3-year award between $150,000 - $500,000 total
  cost (direct and indirect) starting September 1, 2007, and ending August 31,
  2007. The number of awards made is contingent on the quality and type of
  applications received, the amount of funds requested by the applicants, and the
  availability of Federal funds.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994); 45 CFR 100 applies.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office on Women's Health, Department of Health and Human Services, 200
  Independence Avenue, SW Room 712E Washington, DC 20201.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.womenshealth.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  To be considered for review, applications must be received by the Office of
  Public Health and Science, Office of Grants Management, c/o WilDon Solutions
  by 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the due date published in the Dates section of the
  FR. Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be in
  compliance will be reviewed for technical merit by a technical panel composed
  of experts with experience with sex and gender programs, program management,
  service delivery, outreach, health education, Healthy People 2000 and/or Healthy
  People 2010, leadership development, and program assessment in accordance
  with DHHS policy. The technical review of the applications will consider the
  following factors: Factor 1: Background and Implementation Plan (30 points).
  Factor 2: Strength of the Public Health System/Collaborative Partnership
  (Partnership Plan) (20 points). Factor 3: Management Plan (20 points). Factor 4:
  Evaluation Plan (20 points). Sustainability Plan (10 points) Details regarding the
  elements to be addressed within each Factor are available in the FR notice.
93.100 HEALTH DISPARITIES IN MINORITY HEALTH
   (Health Disparities Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title XVII, Section 1707(d)(1), 42
  U.S.C. 300u et seq; Disadvantaged Minority Health Improvement Act of 1990,
  Public Law 101-527.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support the elimination of health disparities among racial and ethnic
  populations through local small-scaled projects which address a demonstrated
  health problem or health issue.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are to be used for support of projects or activities consistent with the
  mission of the Office of Minority Health of the U.S. Public Health Service and
  the purpose of the Health Disparities Grant program. Funds are not to be used
  for the provision of health care, for construction, or to supplant ongoing project
  activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private nonprofit community-based minority serving organizations may apply.
  Faith based organizations are eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Members of minority groups: American Indians or Alaska Natives; Blacks or
  African Americans; Hispanics or Latinos; Native Hawaiian or other Pacific
  Islanders; or sub groups of these populations.
Credentials/Documentation:
