  Credentials/Documentation: Proof of nonprofit status is required as part of the   
  application submission. Costs will be determined in accordance with 45 CFR 74     
  and 92.                                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program does not require preapplication coordination. This program is        
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal      
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official designated as the   
  single point of contact in the State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be filed with applying for assistance, if the State has selected the  
  program for review. This program is also covered by the Public Health System      
  reporting requirements.                                                           
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Requests for the standard PHS application form (SF PHS 1561-1, Revised July       
  2000) and instructions for submission should be directed to Ms. Karen             
  Campbell, Director, Office of Grants Management, Office of Public Health and      
  Science, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20853, Telephone          
  (301) 594-0758. A signed original and two copies of the application are to be     
  sent to the above address. Applications are screened upon receipt for             
  completeness, responsiveness and conformance to the program announcement.         
  Those applications judged to be unacceptable based on this initial screening will 
  be returned.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Accepted applications will be reviewed by a review panel that will make           
  recommendations on the technical merit based on the published criteria. After     
  considering the recommendations of the panel, the Deputy Assistant Secretary      
  for Minority Health, will make a final decision on funding projects and a notice  
  of grant award will be issued.                                                    
Deadlines:

  Contact Headquarter Office listed below for application deadlines.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  From 90 to 120 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Grant projects will have a project period not to exceed 2 years, with 12 month    
  budget periods. Following the initial budget period, continued funding is subject 
  to the availability of funds and satisfactory program performance. Necessary      
  instructions regarding payment procedures will be provided at the time of award.  
Reports:                                                                            
  Progress reports are required for each budget period, and a final report is due 90
  days following the end of the project period. Financial Status Reports are due at 
  the end of each budget period, and a final Financial Status Report is due 90 days 
  following the end of the project period.                                          
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 "Audits of States,    
  Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities that         
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal Awards will have a     
  single or a program specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities   
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt as noted in    
  Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject    
  to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government officials.          
Records:                                                                            
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other       
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.                          
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants)FY 07 est $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.        
  (Note: Will support non-competing applications only. This is the final year for   
  this program.)                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $30,028 to $50,000; $49,146.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  45 CFR 74 and 92. Specific program requirements are contained in the Federal      
  Register Notice, the application instructions, and the PHS Grants Policy          
  Statement.                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                    
  Program Contact: Ms. Cynthia H. Amis, Director, Division of Program

                                                                                    
  Operations, Office of Minority Health, Office of Public Health and Science,

                                                                                    
  Office of the Secretary, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 700, Rockville, MD

                                                                                    
  20852. Telephone: (301) 594-0769. Grants Management Contact: Ms. Karen

                                                                                    


                                                                               11-08
  Campbell, Director, Office of Grants Management, Office of Public Health and
  Science, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852, Telephone
  (301) 594-0758.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.omhrc.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Increasing knowledge of diabetes among African American community residents
  and improving skills necessary for the maintenance of diabetes through
  workshops, dissemination of health information and participation in health fairs;
  improving the health status of American Indians at risk for or diagnosed with
  cardiovascular disease and/or diabetes through fitness activities and an
  educational component; and reducing teen pregnancy and HIV/STDs among
  young Latinos by increasing parents knowledge of the conditions and promoting
  inter-generational communication skills between Latino parents and children
  about sexuality and family planning issues.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Complete review criteria are published in the Federal Register Notice or can be
  obtained from the Program contact. Listed below are some criteria used to
  review applications: 1) consistency of project's goals and objectives with the
  Office of Minority Health's mission; 2) coherence and feasibility of methodology
  and activities selected to address the problem as evidence in the proposed
  implementation plan; 3) strength of proposed grant organization's management
  capability; 4) adequacy of qualifications, experience and cultural competence of
  proposed personnel; and 5) strength of analysis of potential impact or innovation
  the project proposes to generate.
93.103 FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION-RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title III, Section 301(c), Public Law 78-410, as
  amended; Radiation Control for Health Safety Act of 1968, Public Law 90-602,
  42 U.S.C. 241 and 263; 42 U.S.C. 300u, Title XVII; Small Business Innovation
  Research Program Reauthorization Act of 1992, as amended, Public Law 102-
  564 and 106-554.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist institutions and organizations, to establish, expand, and improve
  research, demonstration, education and information dissemination activities;
  acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), biologics, blood and blood
  products, therapeutics, vaccines and allergenic projects; drug hazards, human
  and veterinary drugs, clinical trials on drugs and devices for orphan products
  development; nutrition, sanitation and microbiological hazards; medical devices
  and diagnostic products, radiation emitting devices and materials; food safety
  and food additives. These programs are supported directly or indirectly by the
  following Centers and Offices: Center for Biologics Evaluation and Researh;
  Center for Drug Evaluation and Research; Center for Devices and Radiological
  Health; Center for Veterinary Medicine, Center for Food Safety and Applied
  Nutrition, National Center for Toxicological Research, the Office of Orphan
  Products Development and Office of Regulatory Affairs, and the Office of the
  Commissioner. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Programs: to
  stimulate technological innovation; to encourage the role of small business to
  meet Federal research and development needs; to increase private sector
  commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation by minority and
  disadvantaged persons in technological innovation. Funding support for
  scientific conferences that are relevant to the FDA scientific mission and public
  health are available. Funds are also provided to assist with State Food Safety
  Task Force meetings, which are an important mechanism for promoting food
  safety, food security program coordination, and information exchanges within
  the states. The availavility of Food Safety Task Force (FSTF) grant funds is
  intended to encourage the development and continual occurence of Task Force
  meetings within each state.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Research grants are awarded to an eligible institution in the name of a principal
  investigator for a discrete project representing the investigator's interest and
  competence and are responsive to programmatic requirements as stated in the
  Request for Application. Funds are to be used for costs as identified in the
  Request for Applications and are directly allocable, necessary and reasonable to
  carry out the research. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Phase I
  grants are to establish the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research
  effort that may lead to a commercial product or process. SBIR Phase II grants for
  this program are for the competitive continuation of the research initiated in
  Phase I, and which are likely to result in commercial products or processes. Only
  Phase I awardees are eligible to apply for Phase II support. Conference grants
                                                                                 1259
