  provide partial support for domestic scientific conferences. Food Safety Task      
  Force grant funds are to be utilized only for direct costs incurred to secure      
  meeting facility rental expenses, supplies, publication costs, and in state travel 
  expenses for meeting attendees. Funds shall not be used for Federal employees to   
  travel to the meetings.                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  The grants are available to any domestic or foreign, public or private, for-profit 
  or non-profit entity (including State and local units of government). Federal      
  agencies that are not part of HHS may apply. Organizations that engage in          
  lobbying activities, as described in section 501 (c) (4) of the Internal Revenue   
  Code of 1968, are not eligible. Other eligible institutions include Private/Public 
  and State Controlled institutions of higher education including Hispanic serving   
  Institutions; Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs); Tribally       
  Controlled Colleges and Universities (TCCUs); Alaska Native and Native             
  Hawaiian Serving Institutions; Nonprofit with 501(c)(3) IRS Status (other than     
  Institution of Higher Education); Non-domestic (non-U.S.) entity; Small            
  Business; For-Profit Organization (other than Small Business); State               
  Government; Regional Organization; U.S. Territory or Possession; Indian/Native     
  American Tribal Government (Federal recognized and other than Federally            
  recognized); Indian/Native American Tribally Designated Organization; Faith-       
  based or community based organizations.                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Domestic or foreign entitities, public or private Colleges, universities, profit-  
  making organizations, nonprofit institutions, hospitals, and State and local       
  governments; U.S. Territory or Possession; Indian/Native American Tribal           
  Government (Federal recognized and other than Federally recognized);               
  Indian/Native American Tribally Designated Organizations and faith-based           
  organizations.                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  All grant applications must present a research plan and provide evidence of        
  scientific competence, experimental methods and programmatic relevance, as         
  well as the availability of necessary equipment, and facilities and resources to   
  accomplish the proposed aims and objectives. Phase I Small Business Innovation     
  Research applications should be an idea or concept with commercial potential;      
  and Phase II applications should provide evidence that commercialization of the    
  research results are plausible. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB    
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local or Indian Tribal governments; for-profit     
  organizations' with 48 CFR Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations     
  (FAR); OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions, 45 CFR 74               
  Appendix E for Hospitals; OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations       
  and large non-profit organizations listed in Attachment C of OMB circular A-       
  122 are subject to Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) 48 CFR Subpart 31.2        
  (A subawardee would be subject to the cost principles applicable to its type of    
  organization).                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under Executive Order       
  (E.O.)12372.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The standard application forms, as furnished by FDA through grants.gov and         
  required by 45 CFR 74 and 92 must be used for this program. All research           
  applicants must complete the SF-424 R&R application and all non-research           
  applicants must submit the SF 424-5161 forms for new competing continuations       
  or competing supplemental research grants. Solicited applications in response to   
  Federal Register Announcements and/or the NIH Guide announcements must be          
  submitted through grants.gov. Consultation with Program Staff is available by      
  contacting the Headquarters Office listed below.                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  All accepted research grant applications receive a dual scientific review for      
  technical merit by an appropriate initial review group and a second level review   
  by a national advisory Council or Board. All approved applications compete for     
  available funds on the basis of scientific merit and programmatic relevance. All   
  applications accepted under the Radiation Control for Health Safety Act of         
  1968, Public Law 90-602 and Small Scientific Conference grants, are evaluated      
  under objective review procedures.                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Research grant applications due dates are published in the Federal Register        
  and/or in the Funding Opportunity Announcement published in the NIH Guide.         
  SBIR: April 5, August 5 and December 5; Conference grant applications:             
  October 15, January 15, April 15, and July 15. Unsolicited and SBIR                
  applications are received and processed by the Center for Scientific Review at     
  the National Institutes of Health. The Headquarters Office listed below can be     
  contacted for solicited research application deadlines.                            
                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  From 6 to 9 months for research grant applications. SBIR applications:             
                                                                                     
  Approximately 6 months. Conference applications: Approximately 3 months.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Renewals are available. Procedures are the same as for new applications.           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   


1260                                                                           11-08

  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Normally, awards are made for 1-year with additional support (up to 5 years)
  depending on the recommendation of the dual review groups, successful annual
  performance and availability of funds. Small Business Innovation Research
  Phase I awards are generally for 6 months; Phase II awards are generally for 2
  years.
Reports:
  Program progress reports are due as stated in the Terms and Conditions of
  award. Progress reports and financial status reports are required at the end of
  each budget period. Final program progress, financial status reports and an
  invention statements on all projects must be submitted upon completion of the
  project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (most recent
  revision), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133." In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial and Programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical records
  and all other records that are required by the terms of the grant, or may be
  considered pertinent to a grant must be retained for 3 years from the date the
  grantee submits the final financial status report for the report period. See 45
  CFR 74.53 and 92.42 for exceptions and qualifications to the 3 year retention
  requirement. See 45 CFR 74.48 and 92.36 for record retention and access
  requirements for contracts and grants.
Account Identification:
  75-0600-0-1-554.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $24,500,000; FY 08 est $25,200,000; and FY 09 est
  $25,900,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $5,000 to $5,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Research: In fiscal year 2007, over 100 new competitive applications were
  received and 32 new awards were funded. Approximately 77 continuation
  awards were also funded in fiscal year 2007. In fiscal year 2008, it is anticipated
  that approximately 90 new competitive applications will be received,
  approximately 40 new awards will be funded, and approximately 50
  continuation awards will be made. SBIR: In fiscal year 2007, 2 Phase I's and 1
  Phase II applications were received. In fiscal year 2008 approximately two Phase
  I, and one Phase II competing awards will be funded. About five competing
  grants under the Small Scientific Conference Program were funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  42 CFR Part 52 - Grants for Research Project; 45 CFR Part 46 - Protection of
  Human Subjects; 45 CFR Part 74 - Uniform Administrative Requirements for
  Awards and Subawards to Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, Other
  Nonprofit Organizations and Commercial Organizations; and certain grants and
  agreements with States, Local Governments and Indian Tribal Governments; 45
  CFR Part 92 - Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; the HHS Grants
  Policy Statement, (Most recent revision) available at
  http://www.hhs.gov/grantsnet/adminis/gpd/index.htm; and the Public Health
  Omnibus Solicitation for Small Business Innovation Research Grant
  applications.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program and Grants Management Contact: Michelle Hawley, Acting Chief
  Grants Management Officer, Division of Acquisition Support and Grants, Office
  of Acquisition and Grant Services, Food and Drug Administration, Department
  of Health and Human Services, HFA-500, Room 2107, 5600 Fishers Lane,
  Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 827-1991; Fax: (301) 827-7101;
  Internet address: michelle.hawley@fda.hhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Heat Treatment of Bacterial Spores in Dairy Products; (2) Waste
  Management Education and Research Consortium; (3) Post Marketing
  Surveillance of Adverse Drug Reactions; (4) International Program on Chemical
  Safety; (5) Veterinary Antimicrobial Decision Support System; (6) Continuation
  of the National Center for Food Safety and Technology; (7) Trial of
  Mycophenolate Mofetil in Myasthenia Gravis; and (8) SBIR: Phase II Patient
