  Dose Tracking system for Fluoroscopic Procedures, (9) various Small Scientific     
  Conferences and Food Safety Task Force Conferences.                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include the assessment of: (1) The      
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the        
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the        
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available proposed facilities and resources; (5)  
  the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed       
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.     
  For Small Business Innovation Research applications, the major elements in         
  evaluating Phase I grant applications include the assessment of: (1) The           
  technical merit of the proposed research; (2) the soundness of the proposed        
  design and methods; (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, 
  supporting staff, and consultants; (4) the potential of the proposed research for  
  technological innovation and commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of    
  the budget requested; and (6) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and   
  research environment. In review of Phase II applications, criteria include those   
  listed above, in addition to the following: (1) the degree in which Phase I        
  objectives were met and the feasibility demonstrated; and (2) the adequacy of      
  the Phase I objectives and methodology for addressing the proposed research.       
  For conference programs, the support of scientific meetings is contingent on the   
  scientific interest and priorities of the individual centers and programs.         
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.104 COMPREHENSIVE COMMUNITY MENTAL                                                
HEALTH SERVICES FOR CHILDREN WITH SERIOUS                                            
EMOTIONAL DISTURBANCES (SED)                                                         
                                                                                     
   (CMHS Child Mental Health Service Initiative)                                     
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES                                         
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                                     
  SERVICES                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, Title V, Part E, Section 561, as amended, Public Law    
  102-321, 42 U.S.C. 290ff.                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide community-based systems of care for children and adolescents with a     
  serious emotional disturbance and their families. The program will ensure that     
  services are provided collaboratively across child-serving systems; that each      
  child or adolescent served through the program receives an individualized          
  service plan developed with the participation of the family (and, where            
  appropriate, the child); that each individualized plan designates a case manager   
  to assist the child and family; and that funding is provided for mental health     
  services required to meet the needs of youngsters in these systems.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grant funds may be used for salaries, wages and fringe benefits of professional    
  and support staff; travel directly related to carrying out service activities;     
  supplies, communications, and rental of equipment and space; training              
  specifically aimed at one of the following: the development of individualized      
  service plans; the provision of therapeutic foster care, group home care;          
  intensive home-based services, or intensive day treatment services;                
  administration of the system; and appropriate continuing education of two days     
  or less; contracts for performance of activities under the approved project; and   
  other such items necessary to support project activities. Grant funds and required 
  matching funds may not be used for: other required services; to purchase or        
  improve real estate property; provide residential care and/or services in          
  residential treatment centers serving more than 10 children in inpatient hospital  
  settings; any training activities with the exception of those mentioned above;     
  and non-mental health services including mental health medical services,           
  educational services, vocational counseling and rehabilitation, and protection     
  and advocacy.                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  States, political subdivisions of a State, such as county or local governments,    
  and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal governments.                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Children under age 22 with a diagnosed serious emotional disturbance, serious      
  behavioral disorder, or serious mental disorder.                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  In order for an entity to be eligible it must provide the following credentials or 
  documentation along with an application for assistance: (1) Documentation that     
  the State mental health agency of the applicant receives funds from the Center     
  for Mental Health Services Community Mental Health Services Block Grant; (2)       
  documentation that the applicant entity is qualified to deliver services under the 
  State Medicaid Plan and has an agreement to do so, either directly or through a    
  service provider organization; (3) documentation that the State has an approved    


                                                                                11-08
  plan for the development of a system of care for community-based services for
  children with a serious emotional disturbance approved by the Secretary of the
  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. For the purpose of this
  program, an approved State Mental Health Plan for children and adolescents
  with serious emotional disturbance submitted in accordance with the
  requirements of Section 1912 of the Public Health Service Act, will be accepted
  as such a plan; and (4) matching requirements.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Standard application forms, as furnished by the Public Health Service (PHS
  5161-1, Rev. July, 2000) and required by 45 CFR Part 92 for State and local
  governments, must be used by applicants. Grant application kits may be
  obtained from: Knowledge Exchange Network (KEN) at 1 (800) 789-2647.
Award Procedure:
  Applications submitted are reviewed in a two- tired peer review process. Grants
  in support of projects recommended for approval by the initial review group and
  the Center for Mental Health Services Advisory Council are awarded directly to
  the applicant organization.
Deadlines:
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 120 to 180 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Matching requirements pertain to specific instances (Part E of Title V) of the
  Public Health Service Act as amended by 42 U.S.C. 290ff. This program
  requires that the applicant entity will, with respect to the costs incurred in
  carrying out the purpose of this program, make available (directly or through
  donations from public or private entities) nonfederal contributions towards such
  costs in an amount not less than $1 for each $3 of Federal funds provided in the
  first, second and third years of the grant; not less than $1 for each $1 of Federal
  funds provided in the fourth year of the grant; and, not less than $2 for each $1
  of Federal funds provided in the fifth year of the grant.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project will be funded for up to 6 years. Payments will be made under an
  Electronic Transfer System.
Reports:
  Quarterly and annual progress reports are required as well as a final performance
  report. Annual and final financial status reports are due not later than 90 days
  following the end of the budget/project periods.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," entities that expend
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in a year shall have an audit made in
  accordance with Circular No. A-133. In addition, 45 CFR Part 74.26 requires
  that for-profit recipients and subrecipients have an audit performed in
  accordance with Government Auditing Standards or Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  There is a 3-year record retention requirement: records shall be retained beyond
  the 3-year period if the final audit has not been done or findings resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-1362-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $82,277,923; FY 08 $62,058,726; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $82,277,923 to $62,058,726; $43,769,800.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 56 continuation awards were made. It is estimated that 41
  awards will be funded in fiscal year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 92. Guidelines are provided along with instructions in application kits.
  PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000,
  (Revised April 1, 1994).
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Gary Blau, PhD, Chief, Child Adolescent and Family Branch,
  Division of Knowledge Development and Systems Change, Center for Mental
  Health Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 1 Choke Cherry Road, 6-1041;
  Telephone: (240) 276-1980 Rockville, MD 20857. Contact: Gwendolyn
  Simpson, Grants Management Team Leader, SAMHSA, Department of Health
                                                                                  1261
