  and Human Services, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:             
  (240) 276-1408. E-mail: Gwendolyn.simpson@samhsa.hhs.gov . Use the same              
  numbers for FTS.                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.samhsa.gov .                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  East Baltimore, Maryland; Charleston, South Carolina; Tohatchi, New                  
  Mexico/Navajo Nation; South Bronx, New York; Parsons, Kansas; Milwaukee,             
  Wisconsin; and Santa Barbara, California.                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The following review criteria will be used in evaluating proposals: (1) Potential    
  significance of the proposed project; (2) appropriateness of goals and objectives;   
  (3) adequacy and appropriateness of the proposed approach and activities; (4)        
  evidence of the State's readiness and commitment to the proposed project; (5)        
  commitment to family participation in system development and care of their           
  children and adolescents; (6) degree of cultural competence demonstrated; (7)        
  capability and experience of project director, consultants, and other key staff; (8) 
  adequacy of available resources; (9) reasonableness of the proposed budget; (10)     
  cooperation in the evaluation activities; and (11) evidence of activities directed   
  at developing continues funding support. Award criteria include: (1) quality of      
  proposed project as determined by the review process; (2) geographical               
  distribution; and (3) availability of funds.                                         
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.105 BILINGUAL/BICULTURAL SERVICE                                                    
DEMONSTRATION GRANTS                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                              
  SERVICES                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, Title XVII, Section 1707(e)(1), 42 U.S.C. 300u et         
  seq.                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To improve and expand the capacity for linguistic and cultural competence of         
  health care professionals and paraprofessionals working with Limited-English-        
  Proficient (LEP) minority communities and improve the accessibility and              
  utilization of health care services among the LEP minority populations.              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds are to be used to support projects that provide bilingual/bicultural           
  assistance in the delivery of health services for minority populations. Funds are    
  not to be used for the provision of health care services, construction,              
  augmentation of ongoing Office of Minority Health (OMH) supported                    
  demonstrations, or supplantation of on-going project activities.                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Public and private nonprofit minority community-based organizations or health        
  care facilities serving a targeted LEP minority community may apply.                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Members of the minority groups whose native language is other than English:          
  American Indians or Alaska Natives, Asians, Blacks or African Americans,             
  Hispanics or Latinos, Native Hawaiians or other Pacific Islanders, or a subgroup     
  of any of these groups.                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Proof of nonprofit status is required as part of the application submission.         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program does not require preapplication coordination. This program is           
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal         
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official designated as the      
  single point of contact in the State for more information on the process the State   
  requires to be filed with applying for assistance, if the State has selected the     
  program for review. This program is also covered by the Public Health System         
  reporting requirements.                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application kits may be requested by calling 240-453-8822 or writing to: Ms.         
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office          
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD                 
                                                                                       
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,

                                                                                       
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,

                                                                                       
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be

                                                                                       
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format

                                                                                       
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. The Office

                                                                                       
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the

                                                                                       
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from

                                                                                       
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications

                                                                                       
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS

                                                                                       
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review

                                                                                       
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be



1262                                                                             11-08

  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS e-Grants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS e-Grants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  Accepted applications will be reviewed by a review panel that will make
  recommendations on the technical merit based on the published criteria. After
  considering the recommendations of the panel, the Deputy Assistant Secretary
  for Minority Health, will make a final decision on funding projects and a notice
  of grant award will be issued.
Deadlines:
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will
  be returned to the applicant unread.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days from the application deadline date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant projects can have a 3-year project period, with 12-month budget periods.
  Following the initial budget period, continued funding is subject to the
  availability of funds and satisfactory program performance. Payments will be
  made either on a monthly cash basis or under a letter of credit. Necessary
  instructions regarding procedures will be provided at the time the Notice of
  Grant Award is issued.
Reports:
  Progress reports are required for each budget period, and a final performance
  report is due 90 days following the end of the project period. Financial status
  reports are due at the end of each budget period, and a final status report is due
  90 days following the end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative
  agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal
  government officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.
Account Identification:
  75-0120-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $100,000 to $200,000; $150,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  FY 2007 will support continuation awards only.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 74 and 92. Specific program requirements are contained in the Federal
  Register Notice, the application instructions, and the PHS Grants Policy
  Statement.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Ms. Cynthia H. Amis, Director, Division of Program Operations, Office of
  Minority Health, Office of Public Health and Science, Office of the Secretary,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 600, Rockville, MD 20852: Telephone: (240)
  453-8444. For technical assistance on budget and business aspects of the
  application may be obtained from the Office of Grants Management. Contact the
  Office of Public Health and Science, Office of Grants Management, 1101
  Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852: Telephone: (240) 453-
  8822.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.omhrc.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
