  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  1) Reducing linguistic and cultural barriers which exist between Hispanic          
  patients and health care providers through language and cultural training          
  sessions; 2) developing and implementing a case management and education           
  program that targets specific groups of limited-English-speaking Asians and        
  Pacific Islanders; 3) assessing the health status of Chinese, Vietnamese,          
  Cambodian, and Laotian seniors; providing lectures on Asian health care needs      
  and specific health resources, and providing bilingual and bicultural translators  
  and interpreters; and increasing knowledge and awareness about managed care        
  and its implications.                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Complete review criteria are published in the Federal Register Notice or can be    
  obtained from the Program contact. Listed below are some criteria used to          
  review applications: 1) consistency of project's goals and objectives with the     
  Office of Minority Health's mission; 2) coherence and feasibility of methodology   
  and activities selected to address the problem as evidence in the proposed         
  implementation plan; 3) strength of proposed grant organization's management       
  capability; 4) adequacy of qualifications, experience and cultural competence of   
  proposed personnel; and 5) strength of analysis of potential impact or innovation  
  the project proposes to generate.                                                  
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.107 MODEL STATE-SUPPORTED AREA HEALTH                                             
EDUCATION CENTERS                                                                    
   (MODEL AHEC)                                                                      
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 751(a)(2), as amended; Public        
  Health Professions Education Partnership Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Model State-Supported Area Health Education Centers (MAHEC) Program            
  and the Basic/Core Area Health Education Centers (BAHEC) Program goals are         
                                                                                     
  to assist schools to improve the distribution, diversity, supply, and quality of

                                                                                     
  health personnel in the health services delivery system, and to attract and retain

                                                                                     
  health personnel in underserved areas. The AHEC Program awardees link the

                                                                                     
  academic resources of medical schools and participating health professions

                                                                                     
  schools with local educational and clinical sites, and thereby establish a network

                                                                                     
  of community-based training sites to provide educational services to health

                                                                                     
  professions students, faculty-preceptors and health care providers in underserved

                                                                                     
  areas, and ultimately, to improve the delivery of health care in an underserved

                                                                                     
  region or in an entire state. Emphasis is placed on community-based training of

                                                                                     
  health professions students, primary care-oriented medical residents, local        
  providers, and also 9-12 grade students. The BAHEC Program assists schools in      
  the initial planning, development and implementation of community-based Area       
  Health Education Centers (AHECs) which assist schools and organize the             
  training of at least three health professions disciplines at training-service      
  delivery sites in rural and underserved areas, of a region or an entire state.     
  Schools which complete Basic AHEC Program development, then compete for            
  Model AHEC Program awards in partnership with affiliated (contracted) AHEC         
  Centers to maintain and enhance/expand training programs and training sites        
  responsive to local, State and Federal needs. The MAHEC programs are an            
  established training infrastructure of local, State and Federal partners which     
  address current health workforce priorities within a region of a State or in an    
  entire State. The MAHEC and BAHEC programs embrace the goal of increasing          
  the number of health professions graduates who ultimately practice in              
  underserved areas. Both AHEC programs carry out health careers recruitment         
  and enhancement activities to attract high school students from underserved        
  areas into health careers.                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  With respect to the costs of operating the model area health education center      
  program of the school, the school must make available (directly or through         
  donations from public or private entities) nonfederal contributions in cash        
  toward such costs of at least 50 percent of such costs. Amounts provided by the    
  Federal Government may not be included in determining the amount of                
  nonfederal contributions in cash. With respect to the costs of operating the area  
  health education center program of the school, the school will maintain            
  expenditures of nonfederal amounts for such costs at a level of such               
  expenditures maintained by the school for the fiscal year preceding the first      
  fiscal year for which the school receives an award under this program. Schools     
  may expend not more than 10 percent of amounts received for demonstration          
  projects cited under Section 746(a)(3)(E). The aggregate amount of awards to       
  schools in a State for the fiscal year under this new Model AHEC authority shall   
  not exceed the lesser of (i) $2 million; and (ii) and amount equal to $250,000     
  times the aggregate number of AHEC centers operated in the State by the

                                                                               11-08 
  schools.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The types of entities eligible to apply for this program include public or private
  nonprofit accredited schools of medicine and osteopathic medicine and
  incorporated consortia made up of schools, or the parent institutions of schools.
  Applicants must also have previously received funds, but are no longer receiving
  funds under Section 751(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act, and are
  operating an AHEC program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Accredited schools of medicine or osteopathic medicine, or the parent institution
  on behalf of such schools, and also, accredited schools of nursing in States in
  which no AHEC program is in operation.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from
  Headquarters Office.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 3 to 4 months after the review of the application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Competitive continuation applications may be submitted during the final budget
  period of the approved project.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Awardees shall make available (directly or through contributions from State,
  county or municipal governments, or the private sector) recurring non-Federal
  contributions in cash in an amount not less than 50 percent of the operating
  costs of the Model State-Supported AHEC Program.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project periods are limited up to 3 years.
Reports:
  A Uniform Progress Report(UPR) must be submitted annually. A financial status
  report must be submitted within 90 days after the end of each budget period.
  Final progress and financial reports must be submitted within 90 days after the
  end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $15,077,970; FY 08 est $14,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For FY 06, $170,311 to $851,555; $378,378.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, 39 awards were made. It is expected that 42 Model AHEC Program
  awards will be made in FY 08.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  David Hanny, Ph.D., M.P.H., or CAPT Norma Hatot, Program Officers, AHEC
                                                                                 1263
