  Branch, Division of Diversity and Interdisciplinary Education, Bureau of Health      
  Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of             
  Health and Human Services, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 9-36,          
  Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6950.                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                 
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                 
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.             
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)          
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                       
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Awards are made to a school of medicine or osteopathic medicine that is              
  operating an area health education center program and that is not receiving          
  financial assistance under Section 751(a)(2) of the PHS Act to encourage State       
  coordination and support for AHEC community-based primary care training              
  activities. A listing of currently funded programs is available at                   
  http://bhpr.hrsa.gov/ahec/modahec.htm.                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  In determining the funding of applications, consideration is given to: (1) NEED      
  Demonstrates an understanding of the purpose of the AHEC program, and                
  demonstrates an understanding of the identified need(s) as evidenced by the          
  applicant's description of target population(s) and geographic areas validated       
  with supporting data, demographics, health status of the target population(s),       
  and associated contributing factors which the proposed AHEC project intends to       
  address in the area(s) to be served by the area health education center(s); (2)      
  RESPONSE The degree to which the proposed project responds to the program            
  requirements as set forth in Sections 751(a)(l) and 751(a)(2) of the PHS Act, as     
  amended; degree to which project activities address the AHEC Project and             
  Center requirements; clarity of the project objectives and their relationship to the 
  identified need(s); extent to which project objectives are measurable and            
  attainable within the stated timeframe; clarity of the proposed work plan and        
  mechanisms to assure that satisfactory progress is attained; extent to which the     
  project fulfills the cost sharing/matching requirements; degree to which project     
  challenges and plans to overcome barriers are addressed; and degree to which         
  the project meets the Medical School 10 Percent Requirement; (3)                     
  EVALUATIVE MEASURES The adequacy of the evaluation strategy to monitor               
  and evaluate project results: potential of evaluative measures to assess the extent  
  to which project objectives are met and to what extent these can be attributed to    
  the project; clarity of methods and techniques that will be used to measure,         
  analyze, and report the outcomes of each objective; and the extent to which the      
  proposed project adequately responds to AHEC Program performance measures            
  and outcome indicators; the points will be allocated across the performance          
  measures of Distribution, Diversity, and Quality; (4) IMPACT The potential of        
  the proposed AHEC program and participating center(s) to continue on a self-         
  sustaining basis; identification of plans for effective, efficient dissemination of  
  project results; potential of project results to be of national significance; and    
  potential for replication of project activities; (5) RESOURCES/CAPABILITIES          
  Evidence of qualifications in key personnel bio-sketches; evidence of adequate       
  staffing plan for proposed project; evidence of ability to implement complex         
  programs with similar requirements; evidence of institutional support, e.g.,         
  resources and letters of support; and evidence of successful partnerships and        
  linkages with academic and community-based organizations; (6) SUPPORT                
  REQUESTED Evidence of a reasonable detailed budget and budget rationale to           
  accomplish the project objectives; evidence of fiscal capability to successfully     
  manage cooperative agreements and contracts; and evidence of efforts to become       
  self-sufficient, e.g., other sources of income, income generation plans, and future  
  funding strategies.                                                                  
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.110 MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH FEDERAL                                               
CONSOLIDATED PROGRAMS                                                                  
   Special Projects of Regional and National Significance (SPRANS),                    
  including Family to Family Health Information Centers, and Community                 
  Integrated Service Systems (CISS); and Public Health Service Act -                   
  Section 399BB Programs under the Combating Autism Act of 2006.                       
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Social Security Act, Title V, Section 502(a)(1) and (b)(1) and 501(c)(1), as         
  amended; 42 U.S.C. 702.; and Section 399BB of the Public Health service Act.         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To carry out special maternal and child health (MCH) projects of regional and        
                                                                                       
  national significance; to conduct training and research; to conduct genetic

                                                                                       
  disease testing, counseling, and information development and dissemination

1264                                                                             11-08

  programs; for grants relating to hemophilia without regard to age; and for the
  screening of newborns for sickle cell anemia, and other genetic disorders. These
  grants are funded with a set-aside from the MCH Block grant program. SPRANS
  grants are funded with 15 percent of the Block Grant appropriation of up to
  $600 million. When the appropriation exceeds $600 million, 12.75 percent of
  the amount over $600 million is set aside for the Community Integrated Service
  Systems grants. 15 percent of the balance remaining over $600 million is also
  for SPRANS. The CISS program is to develop and expand the following: (1)
  Home visitation; (2) increased participation of obstetricians and pediatricians;
  (3) integrated service delivery systems; (4) maternal and child health centers for
  women and infants, under the direction of a not-for-profit hospital; (5) services
  for rural populations; and (6) community-based services for children with
  special health care needs in order to enhance or develop an integrated services
  system. Funds are appropriated for the development of family to family health
  information centers as such: $3,000,000 for FY 07; $4,000,000 for FY 08; and
  $5,000,000 for FY 09. Family to Family health information centers assist
  families with children with disabilities or special health care needs to make
  informed choices about health care in order to promote good treatment
  decisions, cost effectiveness, and improved health outcomes for such families.
  In FY 2008 Congress first funded the Combating Autism Act program, which is
  for early detection, education and intervention activities on autism and other
  developmental disorders.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Training grants are made to institutions of higher learning for training personnel
  for health care and related services for mothers and children. Research grants are
  for the purpose of research activities which show promise of a substantial
  contribution to the advancement of maternal and child health services. Genetic
  grants are for genetic disease testing, counseling and information development
  and dissemination. Hemophilia grants are for the support of centers which
  provide hemophilia diagnostic and treatment services. Other special project
  grants are designed to support activities of a demonstration nature which are
  designed to improve services for mothers and children.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Training grants may be made to public or private nonprofit institutions of higher
  learning. Research grants may be made to public or private nonprofit institutions
  of higher learning and public or private nonprofit private agencies and
  organizations engaged in research or in Maternal and Child Health (MCH) or
  Children with Special Health Care Needs (CSHCN) programs. Any public or
  private entity is eligible for hemophilia and genetics grants and other special
  project grants, including CISS. Family to Family Health Information Centers are
  to be developed in the 50 States and the District of Columbia.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  For training grants: (1) Trainees in the health professions related to MCH; and
  (2) mothers and children who receive services through training programs. For
  research grants: public or private nonprofit agencies and organizations engaged
  in research in MCH or CSHCN programs. For hemophilia, genetics, and special
  projects: (1) Public or private agencies, organizations and institutions; and (2)
  mothers and children, and persons with hemophilia (any age), who receive
  services through the programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Maternal and
  Child Health. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Project applications are reviewed by committees composed of staff of DHHS
  and/or nongovernmental experts. Applications are reviewed based on their merit
  and are ranked according to the priority score the committees have assigned.
  Final decisions regarding funding are made by the Associate Administrator for
  Maternal and Child Health.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 3 to 6 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  After initial award, projects may be renewed annually up to the limit of the
  project period upon the submission and approval of a satisfactory continuation
