  except as noted in Circular No. A - 133.                                              
Records:                                                                                
  HHS and the Controller General of the United States or any of their authorized        
  representatives, shall have the right of access to any books, documents, papers,      
  or other records of a grantee, subgrantee, contractor, or subcontractor, which are    
  pertinent to the HHS grant, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, and      
  transcripts. In accordance with 45 CFR, Part 74.53, and 45 CFR, Part 92,              
  grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records 3 years after the end      
  of a budget period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action      
  involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period,    
  the records shall be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all    
  issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year period,            
  whichever is later.                                                                   
Account Identification:                                                                 
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,040,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $108,000 to $151,000; $145,000.                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Regulations, 42 CFR 52 and 52h, 45 CFR 74; 45 CFR 92; PHS Grants Policy               
  Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994.               
  Program guidance is provided in the application kit.                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                        
  Program Contact: Ms. Barbara Cohen, Office of Adolescent Pregnancy

                                                                                        
  Programs, Office of Population Affairs, Department of Health and Human

                                                                                        
  Services, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 700, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone:

                                                                                        
  (240) 453-2828. Grants Management Contact: Karen Campbell, Director, Office

                                                                                        
  of Grants Management, Office of Public Health and Science, Department of

                                                                                        
  Health and Human Services, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD

                                                                                        
  20853, Telephone (240) 453-8822.

                                                                                        
Web Site Address:

                                                                                        
  http://www.opa.osophs.dhhs.gov .

                                                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:

  93.995, Adolescent Family Life_Demonstration Projects.                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  This program has funded projects for the following purposes: (1) Adolescents at       
  risk; and (2) adoption versus parenting.                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  (All applications are subject to peer review, in a system established by 42 CFR       
  Section 52h.8, which must find a project to be of scientific merit before it can be   
  awarded a grant.) Criteria include: (1) Scientific and technical significance and     
  originality; (2) adequacy of methodology; (3) qualifications and experience of        
  principal investigator staff; (4) availability of necessary resources; (5)            
  reasonableness of budget and duration; and (6) adequacy of protection of              
  humans, animals, and the environment.                                                 
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
93.113 ENVIRONMENTAL HEALTH                                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                               
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301 and 472, Public Laws 78-410 and 99-            
  158, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 241, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 288, Public Law 99-             
  500, Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992,                 
  Public Law 102-564.                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To foster understanding of human health effects of exposure to environmental          
  agents in the hope that these studies will lead to: the identification of agents that 
  pose a hazard and threat of disease, disorders and defects in humans; the             
  development of effective disease prevention strategies; the overall improvement       
  of human health effects due to environmental agents; the development of               
  products and technologies designed to better study or ameliorate the effects of       
  environmental agents; and the successful training of research scientists in all       
  areas of environmental health research. Supported grant programs focus on the         
  following areas: (1) Understanding biological responses to environmental agents       
  by determining how chemical and physical agents cause pathological changes in         
  molecules, cells, tissues, and organs, and become manifested as respiratory           
  disease, neurological, behavioral and developmental abnormalities, cancer, and        
  other disorders; (2) Determining the mechanisms of toxicity of ubiquitous agents      
  like metals, natural and synthetic chemicals, pesticides, and materials such as       
  asbestos and silica, and natural toxic substances, and their effects of on various    
  human organ systems, on metabolism, on the endocrine and immune systems,              
  and on other biological functions; (3) Developing scientific information about        
  potentially toxic and hazardous chemicals by concentrating on toxicological           




1266                                                                              11-08

  research, testing, test development, and validation efforts; (4) Conducting broad-
  scale efforts in biometry and risk estimation for determining, monitoring and
  predicting the probable health risks of cancer, organ system toxicities, and
  diseases and disorders resulting from human exposures to various environmental
  hazards, including the development of new statistical analytic tools and
  methods; (5) Expanding and improving the SBIR program; to increase private
  sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; to increase small business participation in Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in technological innovation; (6) Expanding and improving the
  STTR program to stimulate and foster scientific and technological innovation
  through cooperative research and development carried out between small
  business concerns and research institutions; to foster technology transfer
  between small business concerns and research institutions; to increase private
  sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in technological innovation; (7) Providing long-term stable
  support for broadly based multi-disciplinary research and training on
  environmental health problems in Environmental Health Sciences Core Centers.
  These Centers serve as national focal points and resources for research and
  manpower development. The DISCOVER centers intend to advance our
  understanding of the role of environmental factors in influencing human disease
  through an interdisciplinary effort where basic mechanistic and clinical research
  inform each other. Through these Center programs, NIEHS expects to achieve
  the long range goal of developing new clinical and public health applications to
  improve disease prevention, diagnosis, and therapy. Additional Centers
  programs developed in recent years, include the Centers for Oceans and Human
  Health (P50)(co-funded with NSF), Children's Environmental Health Centers
  (P01)(co-funded with USEPA) and the Autism Centers of Excellence (co-funded
  with (NIMH) (U54); (8) Supporting research training programs which serve to
  increase the pool of trained research manpower with needed expertise in the
  Environmental Health Sciences through support of
  IndividualandInstitutionalNational Research Service Awards (NRSAs); (9) The
  Outstanding New Environmental Scientist Program which provides first time
  research grant funding to outstanding junior scientists in the formative stages of
  their career who are proposing to make a long term commitment to
  environmental health sciences research and to address the adverse effects on
  environmental exposures on human biology, human pathophysiology and human
  disease.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Research Grants and Cooperative Agreements are intended to support the direct
  costs of a project, in accordance with an approved budget, plus an appropriate
  amount for indirect costs. Environmental health sciences education grants (R25)
  are limited to $100,000 direct costs plus indirect costs calculated at 8 percent of
  appropriate direct cost base and they should promote the development of
  instructional material. SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-months'
  duration) are to establish the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed
  research effort that may lead to a commercial product or process. Phase II grants
  are for the continuation of the research initiated in Phase I and that are likely to
  result in commercial products or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to
  receive Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are
  to determine the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the
  proposed cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase
  II funding is based on results of research initiated in Phase I, scientific and
  technical merit, and commercial potential of the Phase II application.
  Independent Scientist Awards (Supersedes former Research Career Development
  Award): These awards are in amounts up to $75,000(plus fringe benefits, eight
  percent indirect costs, and $25,000 for research support) and are made to
  institutions to provide salary and research support for research scientists who
  need an additional period of sponsored research as a way to gain experience in a
  research area new to the candidate or in an area that would demonstrably
  enhance the candidate's scientific career. Supplementation from nonfederal
  funds is allowed. Mentored Clinical Scientist Development Awards and
  Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Awards (encompass
  the previous Physician Scientist Awards and Clinical Investigator Awards):
  Awards up to $75,000 (salary), $25,000 for research support plus eight percent
  indirect costs and fringe benefits, to provide for specialized study for clinically
  trained professionals who are committed to a career in research and have the
  potential to develop into independent investigators. Supplementation from
  nonfederal funds is allowed. Midcareer Investigator Award in Patient Oriented
  Research: These awards provide salary for levels of effort between 3-6 person
  months per year (plus fringe benefits)and $25,000 of career development support
  to provide support for mid-career health professional doctorates at the mid-
  career level protected time to devote to patient oriented research and to act as
  mentors, primarily for clinical residents. The Mentored Quantitative Research
