  Development Award: Awards up to $75,000 salary (plus fringe) and up to              
  $40,000 in Career Development Expenses to junior faculty with quantitative and      
  engineering backgrounds to allow them to refocus their research on NIH-relevant     
  topics. Supplementation from non-federal funds is allowed. The Pathways to          
  Independence Award provides up to five years of support consisting of two           
  phases. The initial phase provides 1-2 years of mentored support for highly         
  promising postdoctoral research scientists. Phase 2 consists of up to 3 years of    
  independent research support contingent on securing an independent tenure           
  track or equivalent research position. The total costs per year for the mentored    
  phase should not exceed $90,000 per year, and the total costs for the               
  independent phase may not exceed $249,000 per year. NIEHS Center grants are         
  primarily intended to provide infrastructure support and the support of core        
  research facilities. In addition, an appropriate indirect cost is provided as       
  determined by negotiated agreement with the grantee's cognizant government          
  organization. National Research Service Awards (NRSAs): Individual                  
  predoctoral and postdoctoral training awards are made for the support of            
  fellowswho                                                                          
  engageinresearchtraining in environmental toxicology, environmental pathology,      
  environmental mutagenesis, or environmental epidemiology/biostatistics. These       
  training grants enable institutions to make awards to individuals selected by       
  them, for both predoctoral and postdoctoral research training in the                
  aforementioned areas. Each individual who receives a postdoctoral NRSA is           
  obligated upon termination of the award to comply with certain service and          
  payback provisions.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Research Grants, Cooperative Agreements, Science Education Grants, SBIR             
  Grants, Independent Scientist Awards, Mentored Research Scientist                   
  Development Award, Mentored Clinical Scientist Development Award, and the           
  Academic Career Awards: A university, college, hospital, State, local or tribal     
  governments, nonprofit research institution, or for-profit organization may         
  submit an application and receive a grant for support of research by a named        
  principal investigator. Candidates for Academic Career Awards Awards and            
  Midcareer Investigator Awards in Patient Oriented Research must have a              
  doctoral degree and peer-reviewed, independent, research support at the time the    
  award is made. Candidates for Mentored Clinical Scientist Development Awards        
  and Mentored Patient Oriented Research Career Development Awards must have          
  a clinical degree or its equivalent and must have initiated post graduate clinical  
  training. Candidates holding a Ph.D. degree are ineligible. Candidates who have     
  served as principal investigators on PHS-supported research projects are            
  ineligible. A candidate for Academic Career Awards must have a clinical or          
  research doctorate degree. Those eligible for the Development Award must be         
  able to devote at least 75 percent effort. SBIR grants can be awarded only to       
  domestic small businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated       
  for profit, are not dominant in the field in which research is proposed, and have   
  no more than 500 employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of        
  the principal investigator must be with the small business at the time of award     
  and during the conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the   
  research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. STTR grants can be      
  awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are                 
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in       
  which research is proposed and have no more than 500 employees) which               
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development. At   
  least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business concern    
  and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and Phase II,  
  the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for  
  funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit and program      
  relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council. Centers:    
  A university-based, nonprofit research institution, or for-profit organization      
  proposing an integrated research program established to accomplish a stated         
  mission, covering activities ranging from very basic research to the actual         
  application of research results in the prevention and control of environmental      
  health problems, may submit an application under the direction of a named           
  Center Director. National Research Service Awards: (1) Nonprofit domestic           
  organizations may apply for the Institutional NRSA; (2) Individual NRSA             
  awardees must be nominated and sponsored by a public for-profit or nonprofit        
  private institution having staff and facilities appropriate to the proposed research
  training program; (3) all awardees must be citizens or have been admitted to the    
  United States for permanent residence; (4) to be eligible, predoctoral awardees     
  must have completed the baccalaureate degree and postdoctoral awardees must         
  have a professional or scientific degree (M.D., Ph.D., D.D.S., D.O., D.V.M.,        
  Sc.D., D.Eng., or equivalent domestic or foreign degree).                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  For Research Grants: Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or          
  institution engaged in biomedical research. For Centers and Training Grants:        
  University-based nonprofit institutions; for-profit organizations conducting        
  research; and individuals nominated by a private institution conducting research.   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Research Grants, Science Education Grants, Cooperative Agreements,                  
  Independent Scientist Awards, Mentored Research Scientist Development               
                                                                                      
                                                                                 11-08
  Awards, Mentored Clinical Scientist Development Awards, and Academic
  Career Awards: Applications must be signed by appropriate officials of the
  submitting institution. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments. For educational institutions
  and Indian Tribal governments, Costs will be determined in accordance with
  OMB Circular No. A-21. For-profit organizations' costs are determined in
  accordance with 48 CFR, Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
  For non-profit grantees, costs will be determined by OMB Circular A-122. For
  SBIR and STTR grants, applicant organization (small business concern) must
  present in a research plan an idea that has potential for commercialization and
  furnish evidence that scientific competence, experimental methods, facilities,
  equipment, and funds requested are appropriate to carry out the plan. Grant
  forms PHS 6246-2 and PHS 6426-2 are used to apply for SBIR Phase I and
  Phase II, respectively. Grant forms PHS 6246-3 and PHS 6246-4 are used to
  apply for STTR Phase I and Phase II, respectively. Centers: Application must be
  signed by appropriate officials of the submitting institution. National Research
  Service Awards: (1) Individual NRSA Awards - The applicant's academic
  record, research experience, citizenship, institutional sponsorship, proposed area
  and plan of training must be included in the application; (2)Institutional NRSA -
  The applicant institution must show the objectives, methodology and resources
  for the research training program, the qualifications and experience of directing
  staff, the criteria to be used in selecting individuals for awards, and a detailed
  budget and justification for the amount of grant funds requested. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local
  governments. For-profit organizations' costs are determined in accordance with
  45 CFR, Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other
  grantees, costs will be determined by HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74,
  Subpart Q.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Research Grants, Science Education Grants, Cooperative Agreements, SBIR
  Grants and Awards: Application forms and instructions for their submission are
  available from the Division of Extramural Outreach and Information
  Resources, National Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive, MSC-7910,
  Bethesda, MD 20892. Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program
  uses same procedure as SBIR immediately above. The standard application
  forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR, Part 92, must be used for
  this program by those applicants which are State and local units of government.
  SBIR and STTR Grant Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be
  obtained electronically through the NIH's "Small Business Funding
  Opportunities" home page at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the
  World Wide Web. The Solicitations include submission procedures, review
  considerations, and grant application or contract proposal forms. SBIR and
  STTR grant applications should be submitted to grants.gov at http://grants.gov.
  For Center grants and NRSA Training grants the standard application forms, as
  furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR 92, must be used for this program by
  those applicants that are State or local units of government. Centers:
  Consultation with National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences staff is
  essential prior to submission of an application. National Research Service
  Awards (Individual): Prior to formal application, an applicant must arrange for
  acceptance at sponsoring institution by a sponsor who will supervise the
  training. Application Kits and instructions for submission are available from the
  Division of Extramural Outreach and Information Resources, Office of
  Extramural Research, National Institutes of Health, Room 6207, 6701
  Rockledge Drive, MSC-7910, Bethesda, MD 20892-7910. Specific information
  concerning Centers may be obtained by contacting the office indicated under
  Information Contacts. This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR, 92
  for State and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit
  organizations.
Award Procedure:
  Made on the basis of dual review by peer groups of all applications. The first
  level of reviews is by a study section for scientific merit. In addition, a national
  advisory council provides a secondary level of review for all applications. As
  required by P.L. 109-482, the NIH Health Reform Act of 2006, all research grant
  and cooperative agreements must undergo Advisory Council/Board review and
  approval prior to funding, including those $50,000 and under in direct costs.
  Review of Individual NRSA applications by an Advisory Council/Board is not
  required. Final approval of these recommendations and decisions concerning
  funding are made by the Director, NIEHS. All accepted applications are
  evaluated first for technical merit by an appropriate scientific review group and
  then by a national advisory council. All accepted SBIR and STTR applications
  are first evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific
  peer review panel, then by a national advisory council. All applications receiving
  a priority score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds based on
  scientific and technical merit and commercial potential of the proposed research,
  program relevance, and program balance among the areas of research.
Deadlines:
  Application deadlines for all grant mechanisms can be found at:
  http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/funding/submissionschedule.htm .
                                                                                   1267
