RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  The following Research Projects have been supported: (1) the effects of             
  hexanedione on Testicular Sertoli cell function; (2) a Cell culture approach to     
  understanding mechanisms of cadmium nephrotoxicity; (3) a probable                  
  mechanism for the carcinogenicity of 2-nitropropane; (4) Development of an          
  earthworm model for analyzing xenobiotic immunotoxicity; 5) short-term              
  mutagen testing with human and murine cells; (6) an in vivo assay of                
  environmental toxins using magnetic resonance imaging; (7) Acid aerosol             
  exposure effects on respiratory morbidity; and (8) Epidemiological study of         
  health effects of lead on child development; (9) Metabolomic Assessment of          
  Estrogenic Endocrine Disruptors; (10) Obesity and Neighborhood                      
  Characteristics. Some examples of funded SBIRs are: (1) Development of              
  personal monitors for detection of environmental exposures (2) Submicron            
  Particles and Fibers for Toxicological Studies; (3) A Toxin-Based Drosophila        
  Parkinson's Disease Model Examples of funded STTRs are as follows: (1) Self-        
  Assembled Crystals in Cyanide Detection; (2) Polarized Xenon Production:            
  Powerful Narrowed Laser; (3) LiverTox: Advanced QSAR and Toxicogenomic              
  Software for Hepatotoxicity Prediction. Center Grants provide core support for      
  studies on: (1) the use of model organisms for understanding the mechanisms of      
  toxicity of environmental chemicals; (2) trace contaminants as environmental        
  health hazards to humans; (3) subtropical and tropical oceans and human health;     
  (4) the response of the respiratory system to environmental chemicals; (5) gene-    
  brain-behavior relationships in Autism; (6) the environmental, genetic and          
  cellular determinants of Parkinson's Disease; (7) The impact of particulate         
  matter and a high-fat diet on Atherosclerosis. NRSAs provide support for: (1)       
  Postdoctoral training in experimental environmental pathology and human             
  comparative pathology of diseases and lesions produced by chemical and              
  physical contaminants; (2) predoctoral and postdoctoral training in the field of    
  environmental toxicology on the molecular interactions of toxic materials; (3)      
  predoctoral and postdoctoral training in the evaluation and prediction of the       
  effects of environmental pollutants on biological systems; (4) predoctoral and      
  postdoctoral training in the principles and perspectives of epidemiology and        
  biostatistics to develop a capability to initiate epidemiological inquiries to test 
  hypotheses on the biological effects of environmental agents.                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The          
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives; 
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the         
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the         
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;   
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed    
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to stated program objectives. The     
  following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical merit of
  SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical merit of      
  the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal             
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological innovation   
  of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research for            
  commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the    
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7)        
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for       
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or         
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications       
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the     
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and    
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;     
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance  
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for            
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the      
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research      
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the     
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)            
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.             
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.116 PROJECT GRANTS AND COOPERATIVE                                                 
AGREEMENTS FOR TUBERCULOSIS CONTROL                                                   
PROGRAMS                                                                              
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT                              
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Section 317(a)317E, 42 U.S.C. 247b-b(a), as              
  amended; Health Services and Centers Amendments of 1978, Public Law 95-             
  626; Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, as amended, Public Law 97-          
  35; Preventive Health Amendments of 1984, Public Law 98-555; Public Health          
  Service Act of 1987, as amended, Public Law 100-177; TB Prevention                  


                                                                                 11-08
  Amendments Act of 1990, as amended, Public Law 101-368.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist State and local health agencies in carrying out tuberculosis (TB)
  control activities designed to prevent transmission of infection and disease.
  Financial assistance is provided to TB programs to ensure that the program
  needs for the core TB prevention and control activities are met: finding all cases
  of active tuberculosis and ensuring completion of therapy; finding and screening
  persons who have had contact with TB patients, evaluating them for TB
  infection and disease, and ensuring completion of appropriate treatment, and
  conducting TB surveillance and TB public health laboratory activities that are
  essential to addressing these priorities. Each of these core activities (completion
  of therapy, contact investigation, TB surveillance, and TB laboratory activities)
  is essential to effective TB prevention and control, and they are mutually
  reinforcing. Thus, they constitute a "package" of core activities. These are the
  highest priority TB prevention and control activities and should be carried out
  by all State and local TB prevention and control programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Project funds may be used to support both local personnel and individuals in
  direct assistance (i.e., "in lieu of cash") positions under Section 317 of the
  Public Health Service Act and to purchase equipment, supplies and services
  directly related to project activities, particularly directly observed therapy,
  patient outreach, morbidity surveillance, outreach and program assessment.
  Project funds may not be used to supplant State or local funds available for
  tuberculosis control, or to support construction costs or inpatient care.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Under Section 317 of the Public Health Service Act, official public health
  agencies or their bona fide agents of State and local governments, including the
  District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,
  Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the
  Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and American Samoa.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Official public health agencies of State and local governments, including the
  District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands,
  Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the
  Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and American Samoa.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the
  project, outline the method of operations, describe the evaluation procedures,
  and provide a budget with justification of funds requested. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local
  governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication coordination is not required. This program is eligible for coverage
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program
  for review.
Application Procedure:
  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from the Grants
  Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants
  Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The standard application
  forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR 92 for State and local
  governments, must be used for this program. This program is subject to the
  requirements described in 45 CFR 92.
Award Procedure:
  After officials review and approve applications, a Notice of Award is prepared
  and processed, and appropriate notification is made to the public.
Deadlines:
  Contact Headquarters Office for application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From three to six months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from the Grants
  Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants
  Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The standard application
  forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR 92 for State and local
  governments, must be used for this program. This program is subject to the
  requirements described in 45 CFR 92.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. Although there
  are no matching requirements, applicants must assume part of the project costs
  and fiscal information must be provided in the narrative portion of the
  application pursuant to provisions of Section 317(b)(2)317E.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project Period: From one to five years. Budget Period: One year.
                                                                                  1269
