  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title IV, Section 301, Public Law 78-          
  410; Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992,                 
  Public Law 102-564.                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To obtain improved information on craniofacial-oral-dental health promotion,          
  disease prevention, diagnostics, therapeutics, and fundamental scientific             
  research that fuels the engine of patient-oriented and community-based clinical       
  or applied research. The research portfolio is divided into several over-lapping      
  programs which support basic, clinical and transitional research from molecular       
  biology to patient-oriented and community-based clinical investigations. 1.           
  Inherited Diseases and Disorders Program supports research on etiology,               
  pathogenesis, epidemiology, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of inherited         
  craniofacial-oral-dental diseases and disorders (e.g., ectodermal dysplasia, cleft    
  lip and palate, amelogenesis imperfecta, dentionogenesis imperfecta,                  
  osteogenesis imperfecta, and other inherited diseases that have craniofacial-oral-    
  dental manifestations) as well as on normal craniofacial-oral-dental                  
  development. Developmentally related disorders such as occlusion defects and          
  those acquired through trauma is included. 2. Infectious Diseases Program             
  supports research on etiology, pathogenesis, epidemiology, prevention, diagnosis      
  and treatment of oral infectious diseases (i.e., viral, bacterial, fungal and         
  parasitic) such as dental caries, periodontitis, oral candidiasis, herpes, hepatitis, 
  and HIV/AIDS. Included is research on immunity with special emphasis on               
  mucosal and salivary immunity; and on the oral manifestations of systemic             
  infectious diseases and the development of new diagnostics and therapeutics. 3.       
  Neoplastic Diseases Program supports research on the etiology, pathogenesis           
  and metastasis, epidemiology, prevention, diagnosis, and treatment of oral and        
  pharyngeal neoplastic diseases. 4. Chronic Disabling Diseases Program supports        
  the full range of research involving such diseases associated with the                
  craniofacial-oral-dental complex. These include osteoporosis, osteoarthritis, and     
  related bone disorders, temporomandibular joint diseases and disorders,               
  neuropathies and neurodegenerative diseases including those involving oral            
  sensory and motor functions, and autoimmune diseases such as Sjogren's                
  syndrome. Also included is research aimed at elucidating the relationship             
  between chronic diseases of the craniofacial-oral-dental complex (e.g.,               
  periodontitis) and other systemic diseases (e.g., diabetes). 5. Biomaterials,         
  Biomimetics and Tissue Engineering Program supports research to enhance the           
  development of natural and synthetic therapeutics and biomaterials used for the       
  repair, regeneration, restoration, and reconstruction of craniofacial-oral-dental     
  molecules, cells, tissues, and organs. 6. Behavior, Health Promotion and              
  Environment Program supports research aimed at assessing the interactive roles        
  of sociological, behavioral, economic, environmental, genetic, and biomedical         
  factors in craniofacial-oral-dental diseases and disorders. Included are studies      
  aimed at examining the impact of oral health care delivery systems, clinical          
  decision-making, and education on health outcomes. The Institute also supports        
  Comprehensive Oral Research Centers of Discovery, each of which is organized          
  around a unifying scientific theme pertinent to diseases and disorders of the         
  craniofacial-oral-dental complex, integrates basic, clinical, applied and             
  behavioral research, accelerated science-technology transfer, provides a vehicle      
  for cross-disciplinary and collaborative research, and provides health                
  professionals and the public with the latest information about craniofacial-oral-     
  dental health. The Research Training and Career Program insures the future of         
  craniofacial-oral-dental research by developing an outstanding and diverse            
  scientific work force through programs designed for high school, undergraduate,       
  graduate, and post-doctoral stages of education and for continued career              
  development of scientists and retraining of mid-career scientists. The                
  DiversityinResearch portfolio enhances research                                       
  onminoritycraniofacial-oral- dental health issues, expands the diversity of the       
  scientific work force, and increases the research capacity of minority institutions   
  and of those serving primarily minority populations. The Clinical Trials and          
  Clinical Core Centers portfolio recognizes the increasing need to establish a         
  strong foundation for the support of meritorious clinical research. The               
  Technology Transfer portfolio responds to the increasing partnering of the            
  Institute's Division of Extramural Research with industry in craniofacial-oral-       
  dental research. It expands on the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)          
  and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs and works closely              
  with the industrial R&D community to identify new opportunities for fostering         
  collaborative efforts. The SBIR program seeks to increase private sector              
  commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and                    
  development; to increase small business participation in Federal research and         
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and                
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small              
  business concerns in technological innovation. The STTR program seeks to              
  stimulate and foster scientific and technological innovation and foster               
  technology transfer through cooperative research and development carried out          
  between small business concerns and research institutions; to increase private        
  sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and             
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and                
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small              
  business concerns in technological innovation.                                        
                                                                                        
1272                                                                              11-08

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Research Grants: Research Grants provide funds for salaries, equipment,
  supplies, travel, and other expenses associated with scientific investigation in the
  oral health sciences. They are awarded to universities, colleges, medical and
  dental schools, hospitals, and other nonprofit and for-profit institutions. Awards
  include investigator-initiated project grants, program project grants, center
  grants, career development awards to enable investigators with outstanding
  research potential to develop their careers, and small grants. Individual and
  institutional Dentist Scientist Awards are made to provide research career
  development in both clinical and basic science areas. National Research Service
  Awards (NRSAs) can be made directly to individuals for research training in
  specified biomedical areas, and can be made to institutions to enable them to
  accept individuals for research training. Individuals who receive NRSAs may be
  obligated upon termination of the award to comply with service and payback
  provisions. SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-months' duration) are to
  establish the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that
  may lead to a commercial product or process. Phase II grants are for the
  continuation of the research initiated in Phase I and that are likely to result in
  commercial products or process. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to receive
  Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants (normally 1-year duration) are able to
  determine the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the
  proposed cooperation effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase
  II funding is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and
  technical merit and commercial potential of Phase II application.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Grants: Scientists at universities, medical and dental schools, hospitals,
  laboratories, and other public or private nonprofit and for-profit institutions.
  NRSA and career development awards: (1) Nonprofit domestic organizations
  may apply for institutional awards. (2) Individual candidates or applicants must
  arrange sponsorship by a public or nonprofit private institution having staff and
  facilities appropriate to the proposed research training program. (3) All awardees
  must be citizens, or non-citizen nationals of the United States or have been
  admitted to the United States for permanent residence. (4) To be eligible,
  postdoctoral NRSA and career development awardees must have a professional
  or scientific degree (M.D., Ph.D., D.D.S., D.V.M., Sc.D., D.Eng., or equivalent
  domestic or foreign degree). Institutional applicants must be able to provide the
  staff and facilities suitable for the proposed research training. SBIR grants can
  be awarded only to domestic small businesses (entities that are independently
  owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in which research is
  proposed and have no more than 500 employees). Primary employment (more
  than one-half time) of the principal investigator must be with the small business
  at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. In both
  Phase I and Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its
  possessions. STTR grants can be awarded only to domestic small business
  concerns (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not
  dominant in the field in which research is proposed and have no more than 500
  employees) which "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research
  and development. At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the
  small concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I
  and Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To
  be eligible for funding a grant application must be approved for scientific merit
  and program relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory
  council.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company or institution engaged in
  biomedical research.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Grants: Applications for grants must show the objectives, methodology, and
  resources for the specific research project and must present the applicant's
  competence and interest. NRSA and career development awards: (1) Individual
  Candidates: the applicant's academic record, research experience, citizenship,
  institutional sponsorship, and the proposed area and plan of training, must be
  included in the application. (2) Institutional Candidates: the applicant institution
  must show the objectives, methodology, and resources for the research training
  program, the research qualifications and experience of directing staff to train
  students, the criteria to be used in selecting individuals for awards, and a
  detailed budget and justification for the amount of grants funds requested. Costs
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and
  local governments. For-profit organizations' costs are determined in accordance
  with Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other than State
  and local government grantees, costs will be determined by Health and Human
  Services (HHS) Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and STTR
  grants, applicant organization (small business concern) must present in a
  research plan an idea that has potential for commercialization and furnish
  evidence that scientific competence, experimental methods, facilities equipment,
  and funds requested are appropriate to carry out the plan. Grant forms PHS
  6246-1 and 6246-2 are used to apply for Phase I and Phase II awards,
  respectively. Grant forms PHS 6246-3 and PHS 6246-4 are used to apply for
