  controlling jaw movement; (16) neural control of swallowing and mastication;          
  (17) construction of chimeric salivary molecules; (18) etiology and pathology of      
  Sjogren's syndrome; (19) guided bone regeneration with morphogenic protein;           
  and (20) computer assisted detection of dental caries.                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The            
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;   
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the           
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the           
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available proposed facilities and resources; (5)     
  the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed          
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to the announced program                
  objectives. The following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and     
  technical merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and        
  technical merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed      
  principal investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological      
  innovation of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research       
  for commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6)      
  the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7)      
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for         
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or           
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications         
  will reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the          
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and      
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;       
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and  
                                                                                        
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance

                                                                                        
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for

                                                                                        
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the

                                                                                        
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research

                                                                                        
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing

                                                                                        
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human and animal subject, and/or (b)

                                                                                        
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.               
                                                                                        
93.123 HEALTH PROFESSIONS PREGRADUATE                                                   
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM FOR INDIANS                                                         
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                                 
  SERVICES                                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Indian Health Care Improvement Act, Public Law 94- 437, as amended.                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To provide scholarships to American Indians and Alaska Natives for the purpose        
  of completing pre-graduate education leading to a baccalaureate degree only in        
  the following areas: (1) Pre-Medicine: priority as follows: senior, junior,           
  sophomore, freshman; (2) Pre-dentistry: priority as follows: senior, junior,          
  sophomore, freshman.                                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Scholarship awards are limited to persons of American Indian or Alaska Native         
  descent. Support is limited to 4 years of full-time education, or part-time           
  equivalent for a maximum of 8 years.                                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Individuals of American Indian or Alaska Native descent, who have successfully        
  completed high school education or high school equivalency, and have been             
  accepted for enrollment or are enrolled in an accredited pre-graduate program in      
  a pre-medicine or pre-dentistry curriculum.                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Individuals of American Indian or Alaska Native descent.                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Students must submit proper documentation of Indian eligibility in order to be        
  considered. The applicant's advisor must also provide verification that the           
  courses to be taken are required for an undergraduate curriculum leading to a         
  bachelor's degree in pre-medicine or pre-dentistry curriculum and represents the      
  number of credit hours which the school requires to be full-time or at least 6        
  hours of part-time study.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:

  Preapplication is not required. This program is excluded from coverage under

  E.O. 12372.                                                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Application form OMB No. 0917-0006 and instructions are provided by the               
  Indian Health Service and are usually available to interested individuals in          
  February. An application form and required documentation (official transcripts,       
  letter of acceptance by college, curriculum verification, Indian eligibility, tuition 
  verification, faculty evaluations) are submitted to IHS Headquarters for review       
  and approval/disapproval.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Grants are awarded on a competitive basis. Approved funding includes                  


1274                                                                              11-08

  payments for stipends and books that are made directly to the individual
  recipient. Tuition and fee payments are made to the recipient's college or
  university.
Deadlines:
  Contact IHS Area offices for application deadlines. New applications are usually
  available in February with a submission deadline of April 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants are notified by July 31.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Continuation applications must be submitted annually. Continued funding is
  subject to the availability of funds and satisfactory performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Tuition payments are paid upon receipt of invoices from the universities.
  Stipend payments are paid monthly for the academic period. An amount is
  provided to students for books and other necessary expenses.
Reports:
  Students are required to submit their official transcripts as they are received.
  Initial progress reports are required for each quarter. Notification of Academic
  Problem/Change is required at any time a problem or change occurs.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  The Indian Health Service Scholarship Program maintains records on all
  students. Records must be maintained for 4 years after the final payment has
  been made.
Account Identification:
  75-0390-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,364,846; FY 08 $1,364,846, FY 09 est. not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $18,913 to $27,217; $20,049.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2005, 48 new and 13 continuing awards were made. It is estimated
  that a total of 61 scholarship awards will be made in fiscal year 2006 and fiscal
  year 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  42 CFR 36.370-36.374. Final Rules and Regulations, the Indian Health Care
  Improvement Act, Public Law 96-537 (which amends Public Law 94-437,
  Section 103), published in the Federal Register on February 29, 1984.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Ms. Pat Lee-McCoy, IHS Scholarship Program, Indian Health
  Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, Suite 120, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone:
  (301) 443-6197. Grants Management Contact: Ms. Kimberly Pendleton, Senior
  Grants Management Officer, Division of Grants Operations, Indian Health
  Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, TMP, Suite 360, Rockville, MD 20852.
  Telephone: (301) 443-0243. Use the same numbers for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ihs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.971, Health Professions Preparatory Scholarship Program for Indians;
  93.972, Health Professions Scholarship Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Scholarships may be awarded for any of the following career categories (or the
  equivalent): (1) Premedicine; (2) preoptometry; (3) predentistry; or (4)
  preosteopathy. The priority categories are premedicine (priority as follows:
  senior, junior, sophomore, freshman) and predentistry (priority as follows:
  senior, junior, sophomore, freshman).
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applicant must be of Indian descent. Other elements considered are: (1)
  academic performance; (2) faculty or employer recommendation; (3) stated
  reasons for applying for the scholarship; and (4) the relative needs of the Indian
  Health Service and Indian health organizations for persons in specific health
  professions.
93.124 NURSE ANESTHETIST TRAINEESHIPS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VIII, Section 811, 42 U.S.C. 296j, as amended,
  Health Professions Education Partnership Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.
OBJECTIVES:
  Grants are awarded to eligible institutions to provide financial support through
  traineeships for licensed registered nurses enrolled as full-time students beyond
