  the twelfth month of study in a master's nurse anesthesia program.                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  To meet the costs of traineeships that will pay all or part of the costs of tuition,
  books, fees, and reasonable living expenses for the program for registered nurses   
  to become nurse anesthetists for up to a maximum of 18 months of full-time          
  study. Award recipients must have completed 12 months of study in a nurse           
  anesthesia master's program. Restricted uses: Indirect costs and trainee travel     
  are not allowed.                                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible applicants are collegiate schools of nursing, academic health centers,     
  and other private or public nonprofit entities accredited by a recognized body or   
  bodies or State agency, approved for the purpose of nursing education by the        
  Secretary of Education, which provide registered nurses with full-time              
  anesthetist master's education and have evidence of earned accreditation status     
  from the American Association of Nurse Anesthetists (AANA) Council on               
  Accreditation of Nurse Anesthesia Education Programs.                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Traineeship recipients are selected by the participating institutions. A candidate  
  must be a citizen of the United States, non-citizen national, or foreign national   
  who possesses a visa permitting permanent residence in the United States, be        
  enrolled full-time beyond the 12th month of study in a participating nurse          
  anesthetist master's education program.                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued              
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be

  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from

  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be   
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                  
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health             
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final            
  selections for awards.                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from the          
  Headquarters Office.                                                                
Deadlines:                                                                            
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 2 to 3 months after receipt of applications.                          
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Applications may be submitted annually.                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Project periods are for (1) year.                                                   
Reports:                                                                              
  Annual financial status reports are required.                                       
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of         
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-    
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going            
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely   
  resolved.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $1,250,000; FY 08 $1,250,000; and FY 09 est $1,250,000.

                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                      
  FY 08: Range is $276 to $56,247; Average is $17,123.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  2007 - 79 awards were made; 2008 - 73 awards were made; 2009 - 75 estimated

                                                                                      
  awards will me made.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                      
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and

                                                                                      
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,



                                                                                 11-08
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Ms. Karen Breeden, Division of Nursing, Bureau of Health Professions, Health
  Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 8-C26, 5600
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-5787.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funded projects provide financial support to students enrolled full-time beyond
  the first 12 months of study in a nurse anesthetist education program to cover the
  costs of tuition and fees, books and reasonable living allowance.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All eligible applicants are considered in a formula for determined awards.
  Eligible applicants must meet all applicable Federal guidelines and/or graduates
  must be eligible for national nursing organization certification, and/or programs
  must meet other national organizational guidelines, as appropriate, in the nursing
  field of study.
93.127 EMERGENCY MEDICAL SERVICES FOR
CHILDREN
   (EMS for Children)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 1910, as amended, Public Law 102-410.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support demonstration projects for the expansion and improvement of
  emergency medical services for children who need treatment for trauma or
  critical care.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  All funds granted should be expended solely for carrying out the approved
  project in accordance with Section 1910 of the Public Health Service Act.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States and accredited schools of medicine.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All children will benefit from the project grants administered by this program,
  including children from minority groups.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office of the
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Maternal and
  Child Health. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by a review committee of experts who are generally
  nongovernmental. Applications are reviewed based on their merit and are
  ranked according to a point score. Final decisions are made by the Associate
  Administrator for Maternal and Child Health.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Final decisions are made about 4 months after receipt of applications.
Appeals:
  Applicants may reapply for support by submitting a revised application.
                                                                                 1275
