Renewals:                                                                              
  Renewal applications will be accepted.                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Awards are made annually, in accordance with the project period method of            
  awarding grants. Payments are made through a Letter of Credit or Cash Demand         
  System. Project periods are generally for up to 3 years.                             
Reports:                                                                               
  Annual program reports, financial status reports, program service reports, and       
  special reports must be submitted as required.                                       
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of          
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-

  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going

  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely    
  resolved.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0350-0-1-550.

Obligations:

                                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 $15,418,994; FY 08 est $17,398,487; and FY 09 est $0.

                                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $89,397 to $1,200,000; $192,737.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  For FY 07, 81 grants were funded and for FY 08, it is estimated that 75 grants       
  will be funded.                                                                      
                                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and     
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,          
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as            
  applicable.                                                                          
                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

  EMSC Senior Program Manager, Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health                
  Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human                
  Services, Room 18A-38, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857.                       
                                                                                       
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                       
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants

                                                                                       
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,

                                                                                       
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.

                                                                                       
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)

                                                                                       
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:

                                                                                       
  www.hrsa.gov .

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  20.600, State and Community Highway Safety; 93.110, Maternal and Child

                                                                                       
  Health Federal Consolidated Programs.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  State Partnership Grants The State Partnership grants fund EMS state agencies

                                                                                       
  to focus on the following performance measures: (1) Ensure operational capacity

                                                                                       
  to provide pediatric emergency care by guaranteeing pre-hospital provider

                                                                                       
  agencies have on-line and off-line pediatric medical direction; pre-hospital

                                                                                       
  providers agencies have essential pediatric equipment and supplies; implement a

                                                                                       
  state-wide, territorial, or regional facility recognition program for hospitals that

                                                                                       
  are able to stabilize and/or manage pediatric emergencies; and hospitals have

                                                                                       
  written inter-facility transfer guidelines and agreements that specify alternate

                                                                                       
  sites that have the capabilities to meet the clinical needs of critically ill and

                                                                                       
  injured pediatric patients. (2) Adopt requirements by states/territories for

                                                                                       
  pediatric emergency education for the recertification of paramedics. 3) Establish

                                                                                       
  permanence of EMSC in each state/territory National EMSC Data Analysis

                                                                                       
  Resource Center. NEDARC provides technical assistance, training workshops,

                                                                                       
  and site visits in order to assist EMSC projects and state EMS offices develop

                                                                                       
  their capabilities to collect, analyze, and utilize EMS data. NEDARC provided

                                                                                       
  the foundation from which the NEMSIS Technical Assistance Center was

                                                                                       
  created and is an example of collaboration between EMSC and the National

                                                                                       
  Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA) Targeted Issues Grants

                                                                                       
  Targeted Issues grants are intended to address specific needs or concerns in the

                                                                                       
  field of pediatric emergency care that transcend state boundaries. Typically the

                                                                                       
  projects result in a new product or resource or the demonstration of the

                                                                                       
  effectiveness of a model system component or service of value to the nation.

                                                                                       
  Types of projects that have been funded within this category include developing

                                                                                       
  model pediatric components for state disaster plans, screening and secondary         
  prevention for psychological sequelae of pediatric injury, basic emergency           


1276                                                                             11-08

  lifesaving skills in schools, and emergency preparedness for infants with
  significant heart disease. Network Development Demonstration Project (NDDP)
  Projects are cooperative agreements that demonstrate a system of regional
  applied pediatric emergency medical services centers designed to expand and
  improve emergency services for children who need treatment for trauma or
  critical care. Awardees are linked together in a network to demonstrate a
  capacity to conduct multi-site studies on issued relating to the management of
  pediatric events that occur in hospitals as well as in transport.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Grant applications will be reviewed and evaluated by a panel of reviewers
  experienced in the planning, implementation, and monitoring of emergency
  medical services and pediatric care. The reviewers will recommend a score for
  applications; recommend any modifications or conditions to the grant if
  awarded; and recommend any changes to the proposed budget.
  Recommendations of the review panel are presented to the Associate
  Administrator for MCH. Panel recommendations are advisory only, and the
  Associate Administrator for MCH will be responsible for final decisions
  regarding awards. Reviewers will use the criteria and questions described in the
  section on Categories of Grants: Program Narrative and Review Criteria to
  evaluate proposals. Applicants are urged to address these criteria as directly as
  possible in the text of the program narrative.
93.129 TECHNICAL AND NON-FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE
TO HEALTH CENTERS
   (State and Regional Primary Care Associations)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Section (l).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide necessary technical and non-financial assistance to potential and
  existing health centers, including: 1) training and assistance in fiscal and
  program management (program requirements); 2) operational and administrative
  support (performance improvement); and 3) the provision of information
  regarding resources available under Section 330 and how they can best be used
  to meet the health needs to the communities served by potential and existing
  health centers (information sharing/knowledge management).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Recipients will be expected to provide certain technical and non-financial
  assistance to health centers and other qualified organizations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and Regional Primary Care Associations who currently work with BPHC-
  supported programs or other qualified community-based providers with similar
  missions throughout their State or region.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  This program will benefit medically underserved populations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of the
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for Bureau of Primary Health
  Care. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for
  awards.
Award Procedure:
  Each applicant will receive a written notification of the outcome of the objective
  review process and whether the application was selected for funding. Applicants
  who are selected for funding may be required to respond in a satisfactory manner
  to Conditions placed on their application before funding may proceed. Letters of
  notification do not provide authorization to begin performance. The Notice of
  Grant Award, which is signed by the Grants Management Officer and is sent to
  the applicant agency's Authorized Representative, is the authorizing document.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
