  From 90 to 120 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Awards to support projects beyond the first budget year will be contingent upon    
  Congressional appropriation, compliance with applicable statutory and              
  regulatory requirements, demonstrated organizational capacity to accomplish the    
  project's goals, and a determination that continued funding would be in the best

  interest of the government.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                     
  There is no statutory formula or matching requirements.                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Awards are made annually. After awards are issued, funds are released in

  accordance with DHHS payment procedures, which may be through an                   
  Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cash Request System.

Reports:                                                                             
  Grantees are required to submit an annual progress report for continued funding    
  that describes the utilization costs of services provided under the grant, and     
  provide such other information as the Secretary determines appropriate.            
  Financial status reports are required no later than 90 days after the end of each  
  budget period. Final financial status and progress reports are due 90 days after   
                                                                                     
  the end of a project period.

                                                                                     
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                    
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000   
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit           
                                                                                     
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a

                                                                                     
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,

                                                                                     
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of

                                                                                     
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-

                                                                                     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going

                                                                                     
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely

                                                                                     
  resolved.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  75-0350-0-1-550.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 est $34,000,000; FY 08 est $40,000,000; and FY 09 est               
  $38,000,000.                                                                       
                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                     
  $300,000 to $2,200,000.

                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  It is expected that 51 associations will be funded in FY 09.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and   
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,        
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as          
                                                                                     
  applicable.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

  Headquarters Program Office: Bureau of Primary Health Care, HRSA, 5600             
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Eastern Division: 301-594-4488; Central         
  Mid-Atlantic Division; Telephone: (301) 594-4420; Western Division;                
  Telephone: (301) 480-1130.                                                         
                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants               
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,               
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.           
  Health Services Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training           
  Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch:            
  Telepone: (301) 443-3288.                                                          
                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.129, Technical and Non-Financial Assistance to Health Centers.                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  A grant to a State or regional primary care association is awarded to provide      
  necessary technical and non-financial assistance to potential and existing health  
  centers, including: 1) training and assistance in fiscal and program management    
  (program requirements); 2) operational and administrative support (performance     
  improvement); and 3) the provision of information regarding resources available    
  under Section 330 and how they can best be used to meet the health needs to the    
  communities served by potential and existing health centers (information           
  sharing/knowledge management).                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applicants for funding under Section 330 to provide technical and non-financial    
  assistance to health centers will be evaluated on their ability to perform State or
  regional-specific assistance in the following areas: 1) training and assistance in 
                                                                                     
  fiscal and program management (program requirements); 2) operational and

                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  administrative support (performance improvement), and 3) information
  sharing/knowledge management. The application should outline specific
  activities under each core function. These activities must support and advance
  the HRSA/BPHC mission goals and focus on HRSA/BPHC supported health
  centers. The extent and type of activities under each core function should
  depend on demonstrated health centers needs and HRSA/BPHC/State/regional
  priorities.
93.130 COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS TO
STATES/TERRITORIES FOR THE COORDINATION AND
DEVELOPMENT OF PRIMARY CARE OFFICES
   (State Primary Care Offices)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 330(k), 330(m) and 333(d).
OBJECTIVES:
  To coordinate local, State, and Federal resources contributing to primary care
  service delivery and workforce issues in the State to meet the needs of
  medically-underserved populations through health centers and other community-
  based providers of comprehensive primary care and the retention, recruitment,
  and oversight of health professions for medically underserved populations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Recipients will be expected to perform State-wide primary care planning and
  resource coordination, including Medicaid, Children's Health Insurance
  program, State Offices of Rural Health, Ryan White Area Health Education
  Centers, Maternal and Child Health, etc.; support health systems development,
  primary care practitioners retention and recruitment, National Health Services
  Corps monitoring activities, as well as activities relating to other special
  populations including rural populations; and conduct operational and
  administrative support activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States or territories, political subdivisions of States, agencies of States, or other
  public entities that operate solely within one State.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Medically underserved populations within States will benefit from this program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  The Division of Independent Review is responsible for managing objective
  reviews within Health Resources and Services Administration. Applications will
  receive an objective and independent review performed by a committee of
  experts. Applications are reviewed for merit and are recommended for approval
  or disapproval. Each applicant will receive written notification of the outcome of
  the objective review process, including summary of the expert committee's
  assessment of the application's merits and weaknesses, and whether the
  application was selected for funding. Applicants who are selected for funding
  may be required to respond in a satisfactory manner to conditions placed on their
  application before funding can proceed. Final decisions are made jointly by the
  Associate Administrator for Health Professions and the Associate Administrator
  for Primary Care. Letters of notification do not provide authorization to begin
  performance. The Notice of Grant Award, which is signed by Grants
  Management Officer and is sent to the applicant's agency's Authorized
  Representative, is the authorizing document.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  90 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Support is recommended for a specified project period, not in excess of 3 years.
  After initial awards are made, projects may be renewed annually depending on
                                                                                    1277
