  the submission and approval of a satisfactory application. Future funding is      
  contingent on the availability of funds for such purposes.                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  There are no statutory formula or matching requirements.                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Awards are made annually. After awards are issued, funds are released in          
  accordance with DHHS payment procedures, which may be through an                  
  Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cash Request System.                      
Reports:                                                                            
  Grantees are required to submit annual program reports. Financial status reports  
  are required no later than 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final     
  financial status and progress reports are due 90 days after the end of a project  
  period.                                                                           
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of       
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-  
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going          
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely 
  resolved.                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $10,000,000; FY 08 est $10,000,000; and FY 09 est                  
  $10,000,000.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Average award per recipient $188,679.                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In FY 08, 53 applicants were funded. It is anticipated that 53 new awards will be 
  funded in FY 09.                                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and

                                                                                    
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,

                                                                                    
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as

                                                                                    
  applicable.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                    
  Office of Shortage Designation Branch, Bureau of Health Professions, Health

                                                                                    
  Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human

                                                                                    
  Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 8C-26, Rockville, Maryland 20857.

                                                                                    
  Telephone: (301) 594-0816.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                    
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants

                                                                                    
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,

                                                                                    
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.

                                                                                    
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)

                                                                                    
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.

                                                                                    
Web Site Address:

                                                                                    
  www.hrsa.gov .

RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  93.129, Technical and Non-Financial Assistance to Health Centers.                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  A cooperative agreement to a State Health Department engaged in the following:    
  (1) statewide primary health care planning and resource coordination; (2) health  
  systems development; (3) National Health Service Corps monitoring activities;     
  (4) supporting the use of State resources (including Medicaid, Children's Health  
  Insurance Program, Area Health Education Centers, and Maternal and Child          
  Health) for primary care purposes to medically underserved populations; and (4)   
  promoting partnerships with State and Regional Primary Care Associations,         
  State Offices of Rural Health, Ryan White, and Maternal and Child Health.         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Applicants will be evaluated in the following areas: (1) Ability to assess and    
  analyze the State's health policy environment, its unmet need for preventive and  
  primary care services, its health care marketplace and its major disparities in   
  health outcomes; and (2) develop and implement strategies and activities to       
  effectively assist health centers and NHSC delivery sites in their response to    
  these State environmental conditions and needs identified.                        
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
93.134 GRANTS TO INCREASE ORGAN DONATIONS                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
                                                                                    
1278                                                                          11-08

  Reimbursement of Travel and Subsistence Expenses toward Living Organ
  Donation: Section 377 of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, 42 U.S.C.
  Section 274f. Clinical Interventions to Increase Organ Procurement (CIOP):
  Section 377A of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 274f-1.
   Social and Behavioral Interventions to Increase Solid Organ Donation: Section
  377A of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 274f-1. State
  Donor Registry Support Program and Public Education Efforts to Increase Solid
  Organ Donation: Section 377A of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, 42
  U.S.C. Section 274f-1. Public Education Efforts to Increase Solid Organ
  Donation: Section 377A of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, 42 U.S.C.
  Section 274f-1. Grants to Establish Programs Coordinating Organ Donation
  Activities of Hospitals and Organ Procurement Organizations: Section 377B of
  the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 274f-2.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support grants for the purpose of increasing public commitment to organ
  donation and the number of organs recovered and ultimately transplanted. To
  that end, the Division of Transplantation has a cooperative agreement and 5
  grant programs with the following objectives: Reimbursement of Travel and
  Subsistence Expenses toward Living Organ Donation: The purpose of this
  program is to establish and operate a national system to provide reimbursement
  of travel and subsistence expenses, and other non-medical expenses that may be
  authorized by the Secretary to individuals making living donations of their
  organs. Clinical Interventions to Increase Organ Procurement (CIOP): This
  program provides support for the implementation and evaluation of model
  interventions for identifying appropriate heart beating and non-heart-beating
  donation candidates, evaluating donated organs, maintaining donor stability, and
  optimizing methods for organ procurement. In FY 2007, the sole focus of the
  CIOP was to provide support for model interventions for increasing organ
  donation from uncontrolled donors after cardiac death (UDCD). In FY 2008 the
  CIOP focus returned to Donation after Neurological Death (DND) and Donation
  after Cardiac Death (DCD) both controlled and uncontrolled. The FY 2009 focus
  will again be on DND and DCD. Support would also be likely for hypothesis
  driven testing of emerging technologies that may be useful for evaluating and
  improving organ function. Social and Behavioral Interventions to Increase Solid
  Organ Donation: This program provides support for the implementation and
  rigorous evaluation of highly promising strategies and approaches for increasing
  public attitudes, practices and ultimately commitment to organ donation as well
  as family consent at a relative's time of death. State Donor Registry Support
  Program: This program provides support to units of State government to
  develop or improve a statewide electronic registry in which residents can
  indicate their intent to be a donor which can be accessed by procurement
  personnel on a 24/7 basis to determine donation wishes of residents at their time
  of death. The ultimate objective is to ensure that every American has the
  opportunity to designate his or her donation wishes in a manner that is
  consistently available when needed. Public Education Efforts to Increase Solid
  Organ Donation: The purpose of this program is to support the implementation
  of public education and outreach programs that show promise of increasing
  organ donation. Specifically, this program supports the replication of strategies
  demonstrated in the Division's grant program Social and Behavioral
  Interventions to Increase Solid Organ Donation or through other research efforts
  to be effective in increasing organ donation. The program also supports the
  implementation of efforts to increase organ donation that adopt and replicate
  strategies demonstrated in the public health literature as being effective methods
  for modifying other health behaviors. The program also supports the
  implementation of public education and outreach efforts that are based on an
  established framework for successful public health outreach programs. This
  grant program is supportive of the Division's mission to educate the public about
  deceased and/or living donation and to encourage individuals' to document their
  decision to be a donor in their statewide donor registry or by some other
  mechanism where a registry is unavailable. Grants to Establish Programs
  Coordinating Organ Donation Activities of Hospitals and Organ Procurement
  Organizations: This grant program provides support to teams of OPOs and
  hospitals in the same donation service area (DSA) to implement and better
  coordinate strategies for increasing their rates of organ donation and
  consequently, the number of lives saved through transplantation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Reimbursement of Travel and Subsistence Expenses toward Living Organ
  Donation: Funds made available through this program may not be made
  available to donating individuals when payment for qualified reimbursement
  expenses has been made, or can reasonably be expected to be made: (1) under
  any State compensation program, under an insurance policy, or under any
  Federal or State health benefits program; (2) by an entity that provides health
  services on a prepaid basis; or (3) by the recipient of the organ. All Other
  Programs: Funds may not be used for activities that are reimbursable under
  Medicare.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Reimbursement of Travel and Subsistence Expenses toward Living Organ
  Donation: As specified in Section 377 of the Public Health Service Act, as
