  amended, eligible applicants include States, transplant centers, qualified organ 
  procurement organizations under section 371, or other public or private entities.
  Clinical Interventions to Increase Organ Procurement Grant Program (CIOP): As    
  specified in Section 377A (b) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, the  
  Secretary may make peer-reviewed grants to public and nonprofit private          
  entities. If the applicant is an OPTN member, and if the applicant is working    
  with a consortium that includes OPTN members, the applicant and all other        
  OPTN members are expected to be in compliance with the final rule governing      
  the operation of the OPTN Section 121.11(b2). Social and Behavioral              
  Interventions to Increase Solid Organ Donation Grant Program: As specified in    
  Section 377A(b) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, the Secretary      
  may make peer-reviewed grants to public and nonprofit private entities for the   
  purpose of carrying out studies and demonstration projects to increase organ     
  donation and recovery rates, including living donation. If the applicant is an   
  OPTN member, and if the applicant is working with a consortium that includes     
  OPTN members, the applicant and all other OPTN members are expected to be        
  in compliance with the final rule governing the operation of the OPTN Section    
  121.11(b2). State Donor Registry Support Program: As specified in Section        
  377A(c) of the Public Health Service Act, as amended, the Secretary may make     
  peer-reviewed grants to States for activities pertaining to the State donor      
  registry. If the applicant is working with a consortium, any consortium members  
  that are OPTN members are expected to be in compliance with the final rule       
  governing the operation of the OPTN Section 121.11(b2). Public Education         
  Efforts to Increase Solid Organ Donation: As specified in Section 377A(b) of     
  the Public Health Service Act, as amended, the Secretary may make peer-          
  reviewed grants to public and nonprofit private entities for the purpose of      
  carrying out studies and demonstration projects to increase organ donation and   
  recovery rates, including living donation. If the applicant is an OPTN member,   
  and if the applicant is working with a consortium that includes OPTN members,    
  the applicant and all other OPTN members involved in the project are expected    
  to be in compliance with the final rule governing the operation of the OPTN      
  Section 121.11(b2). Grants to Establish Programs Coordinating Organ Donation     
  Activities of Hospitals and Organ Procurement Organizations: As specified        
  under section 377B of the Public Health Service Act, the Secretary may award     
  grants to qualified organ procurement organizations and hospitals under section  
  371 to establish programs coordinating organ donation activities of eligible     
  hospitals and qualified organ procurement organizations under section 371. For   
  purposes of this section, eligible hospital means a hospital that performs       
  significant trauma care, or a hospital or consortium of hospitals that serves a  
  population base of not fewer than 200,000 individuals.                           
                                                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Reimbursement of Travel and Subsistence Expenses toward Living Organ             
  Donation: Primary beneficiaries are low/moderate income living organ donors      
  and recipients. All other Programs: Beneficiaries are all organ transplant       
  recipients.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued           
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be   
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental       
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of the       
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more  
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for     
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                    
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from      
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find  
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding               
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Healthcare      
  Systems. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections  
  for awards.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Reimbursement of Travel and Subsistence Expenses toward Living Organ             
  Donation: Applications are reviewed by a committee of representatives with       
  diverse expertise including organ transplantation. Applications are reviewed for 
  merit. Final decisions are made by the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of 
  Healthcare Systems. Clinical Interventions to Increase Organ Procurement         
  Grant Program: Applications are reviewed by a committee of representatives       
  knowledgeable about organ donation and transplantation. Applications are         
  reviewed for merit. Final decisions are made by the Associate Administrator for  
  the Bureau of Healthcare Systems. Social and Behavioral Interventions to         
  Increase Organ Donation Grant Program: Applications are reviewed and scored      
  for merit by a committee of representatives knowledgeable about strategies to    
  increase organ donation and evaluation research methodology. Final decisions     
  are made by the Associate Administrator for the Bureau Healthcare Systems.       
  State Donor Registry Support Program: Applications are reviewed and scored for   
  merit by a committee of individuals with expertise and experience in statewide   
  organ donor registries and evaluation processes. Final decisions are made by the 


                                                                              11-08
  Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Healthcare Systems. Public
  Education Efforts to Increase Solid Organ Donation Grant Program:
  Applications are reviewed and scored for merit by a committee of individuals
  with expertise in organ donor awareness strategies and applied evaluation
  methodologies. Applications are reviewed and scored for merit. Final decisions
  are made by the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Healthcare Systems.
  Grants to Establish Programs Coordinating Organ Donation Activities of
  Hospitals and Organ Procurement Organizations: Applications are reviewed and
  scored for merit by a committee of representatives knowledgeable about
  strategies to increase organ donation. Final decisions are made by the Associate
  Administrator for the Bureau of Healthcare Systems.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 30 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None of the grant programs has a statutory formula. The Grants to Establish
  Programs Coordinating Organ Donation Activities of Hospitals and Organ
  Procurement Organizations Program has a matching requirement of not less than
  30% of the amount of the grant awarded.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The Reimbursement of Travel and Subsistence Expenses toward Living Organ
  Donation Cooperative Agreement is awarded for a 12-month budget period over
  a four-year period. Both Clinical Interventions Research grants and Social and
  Behavioral Research grants are awarded for a 12-month budget period over a
  three-year period. State Donor Registry Support Program grants are awarded for
  a 12-month budget period over a one-year period. Public Education Efforts to
  Increase Solid Organ Donation are awarded for a 12-month budget period over a
  two year period. Grants to Establish Programs Coordinating Organ Donation
  Activities of Hospitals and Organ Procurement Organizations are awarded for a
  12-month budget period over a two-year period.
Reports:
  Reimbursement of Travel and Subsistence Expenses toward Living Organ
  Donation: Two progress reports are required in addition to annual financial
  reports. Final reports and final financial status reports are due 90 days from the
  end of the project period. Clinical Interventions to Increase Organ Procurement
  Grant Program: Quarterly progress reports are required for all awardees in
  addition annual financial reports. Final progress reports and final financial status
  reports are due 90 days from the end of the project period. Social and Behavioral
  Interventions to Increase Organ Donation Grant Program: Two progress reports
  are required for all awardees in addition to annual financial reports. Final reports
  and final financial status reports are due 90 days from the end of the project
  period. State Donor Registry Support Program: One progress report is required
  for all awardees in addition to annual financial reports. Final reports and final
  financial status reports are due 90 days from the end of the project period. Public
  Education Efforts to Increase Solid Organ Donation: Two progress reports are
  required for all awardees in addition to annual financial reports. Final reports
  and final financial status reports are due 90 days from the end of the project
  period. Grants to Establish Programs Coordinating Organ Donation Activities
  of Hospitals and Organ Procurement Organizations: Two progress reports are
  required for all awardees in addition to annual financial reports. Final reports
  and final financial status reports are due 90 days from the end of the project
  period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  122 Obligations: Reimbursement of Travel and Subsistence Expenses toward
  Living Organ Donation: FY 07 $500,000; FY 08 $0; FY 09 est $2,000,000
  Clinical Interventions to Increase Organ Procurement Grant Program: FY 07
  $757,445; FY 08 est $1,952,844; and FY 09 est $2,841,654. Social and
  Behavioral Interventions to Increase Organ Donation Grant Program: FY 07
  $3,690,372; FY 08 est $3,809,461; and FY 09 est $3,695,645. State Donor
                                                                                   1279
