Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Costs will be determined in accordance with HHS Regulations, 45 CFR 74,           
  Subpart Q for nonprofit organizations.                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Preapplication coordination is not required. This program is excluded from        
  coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                        
Application Procedure:                                                              
  To apply for this funding opportunity, use application form PHS 398 (OMB          
  number 0925-0001 rev. 9/2004, Interim revised 4/2006). Forms and instructions     
  are available in an interactive format on the CDC web site, at the following      
  Internet address: www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. Submit the signed original     
  and five copies of your application by mail or express delivery service to:       
  Technical Information Management, CDC Procurement and Grants Office, 2920         
  Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341.                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Approved grants are funded based on priority score ranking from a scientific      
  review, as well as availability of funds, secondary review and such other         
  significant factors deemed necessary and appropriate by the agency. Initial       
  award provides funds for the first budget period (usually 12 months) and Notice   
  of Grant Award (Form PHS 5152-1) indicates support recommended for                
  remainder of project period, allocations of Federal funds by budget categories,   
  and special conditions, if any.                                                   
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact Headquarters Office for application deadlines.                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  From six to nine months.                                                          
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Applications for renewal will be reviewed in the same manner as new               
  applications and will compete for available funds with other applications.        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  From one to five years (renewable, based on competitive applications and          
  availability of funds).                                                           
Reports:

                                                                                    
  Financial status reports (annual); interim progress (annually); terminal progress

                                                                                    
  report (three months after end of project); and reprints and copies of resulting

                                                                                    
  publications.

                                                                                    
Audits:

                                                                                    
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                    
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,

                                                                                    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                    
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                    
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                    
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are

                                                                                    
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.

                                                                                    
Records:

                                                                                    
  Financial records, including documents to support entries on accounting records

                                                                                    
  and substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept readily available for review

                                                                                    
  by personnel authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must be

                                                                                    
  maintained for three years after the end of a budget period. If questions still

                                                                                    
  remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related records should be

                                                                                    
  retained until the matter is completely resolved.

                                                                                    
Account Identification:

                                                                                    
  75-0943-0-1-550.

                                                                                    
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $24,287,000; FY 08 est $24,200,000; and FY 09 est                  
  $24,200,000.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $720,000 to $770,000; $730,000.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  A total of 33 centers were funded in fiscal year 2004. It is estimated that in    
  fiscal year 2008 awards will be made to the same 33 centers.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  42 CFR 52; and basic grant administration policies of DHHS and PHS are also       
  applicable, 45 CFR 74; PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No.          
  (OASH) 94- 50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994.                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Program Contact: Eduardo Simoes, M.D., Director, Prevention Research Center       
  Program, Division of Adult and Community Health, National Center for Chronic      
  Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and          
  Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services, 4770 Buford Highway,         
  NE., K-45, Atlanta, GA 30341-3724. Telephone: (770) 488-5395. Grants              
  Management Contact: Hector Buitrago, Lead Grants Management Specialist,           
  Team 2, Branch 3, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control      
                                                                                    


                                                                              11-08 
  and Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services, 2920 Brandywine
  Road, Room 3000, Mailstop E-09, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-
  2700.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov/prc.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.283, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and
  Technical Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Each Center dedicates core resources to support a particular research project
  with a particular emphasis on addressing health disparities. For example, the
  causes of excess mortality in Harlem, promoting healthy lifestyles in American
  Indians and focusing on the health of older adults. Many of the research projects
  are also in specific areas of importance addressing the Healthy People 2010
  Objectives. The Prevention Research Centers focus on solutions for underserved
  communities and promote disease prevention and health promotion strategies
  among the following population groups: children and youth, older adults and
  disabled persons; African Americans, Asians, Hispanics, American Indians, and
  rural populations.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Prevention Research Center applications are reviewed on the basis of
  scientific/technical merit, with attention given to such matters as: (1) The degree
  to which the applicant satisfies the essential requirements and possesses other
  desired characteristics, such as depth, breadth, and scientific merit of the overall
  application relative to the types of research and demonstration projects
  proposed; (2) clarity of purpose and overall qualifications, adequacy and
  appropriateness of personnel to accomplish proposed prevention research
  projects and demonstration projects, and the nation's health priorities and needs;
  (3) ability to generalize, translate and disseminate to State or local health
  departments, boards of education and other appropriate national regional, and
  local public health agencies and organizations; (4) reasonableness of the
  proposed budget in relation to the work proposed.
93.136 INJURY PREVENTION AND CONTROL RESEARCH
AND STATE AND COMMUNITY BASED PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Laws 99-500 and 99-501; Department of Health and Human Services
  Appropriation Act of 1987, Section 601; Economy Act, Public Law 99-190, as
  amended, 31 U.S.C. 1533 and 1536; Public Health Service Act, Sections 301
  and 394, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 241.
OBJECTIVES:
  RESEARCH GRANTS: (1) To support injury control research on priority issues;
  (2) to integrate aspects of engineering, public health, behavioral sciences,
  medicine, engineering, health policy, economics and other disciplines in order to
  prevent and control injuries more effectively; (3) to rigorously apply and
  evaluate current and new interventions, methods, and strategies that focus on the
  prevention and control of injuries; (4) to stimulate and support Injury Control
  Research Centers (ICRCs) in academic institutions which will develop a
  comprehensive and integrated approach to injury control research and training;
  and (5) to bring the knowledge and expertise of ICRCs to bear on the
  development of effective public health programs for injury control. STATE
  AND COMMUNITY PROGRAM GRANTS/COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS:
  (1) To develop and evaluate new methods or to evaluate existing methods and
  techniques used in injury surveillance by public health agencies; and (2) to
  develop, expand, or improve injury control programs to reduce morbidity,
  mortality, severity, disability, and cost from injuries.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are available for costs directly attributed to the performance of research
  and demonstrations surveillance or interventions/evaluations programs
  pertaining to injury prevention and control plus certain direct costs of the
  grantee in accordance with established policies of the Public Health Service.
  Grantees may not award subgrants but may enter into contracts as necessary to
  achieve the aims of the program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  For INJURY PREVENTION AND CONTROL RESEARCH PROGRAMS,
  AND INJURY CONTROL RESEARCH CENTERS: Eligible applicants may
  include any nonprofit or for-profit organization; for STATE AND
  COMMUNITY PROGRAM GRANTS/COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS: State
  and local governments or their Bona Fide Agents (this includes the District of
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the
  Commonwealth of the Northern Marianna Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the
  Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the
  Republic of Palau) and political subdivisions of States (in consultation with
  States),Federally recognized or state-recognized American Indian/Alaska Native
                                                                                    1281
