  for Disease Control and Prevention (F62), 4770 Buford Hwy. NE Atlanta,             
  Georgia 30341-3724 pos1@cdc.gov. Telephone: (770) 488-1508 FAX: (770)              
  488-1670. Community- Based Grant Programs Robin Forbes, Public Health              
  Advisor, Extramural Resource Team, National Center for Injury Prevention and       
  Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (F63), 4770 Buford Hwy.        
  NE Atlanta, Georgia 30341-3724 rjf0@cdc.gov. Telephone: (770) 488-1324             
  Fax: (770) 488-1662.                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Program contact. Headquarters Office: Program contacts: Injury Prevention and      
  Control Research Projects - Adele Childress. Telephone: (770) 488-4233 for         
  individual research grants; Injury Control Research Centers - Paul Smutz.          
  Telephone: (770) 488-1508; State and Community-Based Grant Programs                
  contact is Robin Forbes. Telephone: (770) 488-1324. The mailing address is         
  National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control     
  and Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services, Atlanta, GA 30341-        
  3724. The Grants Management Office contact is Mildred Garner. Telephone:           
  (770) 488-2745, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch IV,            
  Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,         
  Department of Health and Human Services, 2920 Brandywine Road, Suite 3000,         
  Atlanta, GA 30341.                                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.cdc.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.283, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and              
  Technical Assistance.                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  (1) Injury Control Research Centers (ICRC) have undertaken a broad range of        
  work. For example, the Johns Hopkins University ICRC has sponsored Summer          
  Training Institutes for injury control researchers and practitioners. Harvard has  
  been a key planning, training, and program resource for injury control programs    
  in the New England States. Work at the University of North Carolina ICRC has       
  led to the creation of an injury control unit in the North Carolina State Health   
  Department. Harborview ICRC serves as a State and regional resource in trauma      
  and burn care and is a leader of efforts to reduce pedestrian injuries and injuries
  associated with motorcycles and bicycles. (2) Funded Injury Prevention and         
  Control Projects address priority research concerns encompassing acute care,       
  biomechanics, prevention, epidemiology, and rehabilitation. As examples,           
  researchers are investigating the mechanism of traumatic brain injury due to       
  impact, other investigators are defining risk factors for intimate partner violence
  and another group is evaluating the effectiveness of trauma systems. (3)           
  Surveillance programs address E- coded hospital discharge data; model              
  surveillance systems to address nonfatal injuries resulting from intentional and   
  unintentional injuries.                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applications are reviewed on the basis of scientific/technical merit, with         
  attention being given to such matters as: (1) The degree to which the applicant    
  satisfies the essential requirements and possesses other desired characteristics,  
  such as richness, breadth, and scientific merit of the overall application relative
  to the types of research, demonstrations, and special projects proposed; (2)       
  clarity of purpose and overall qualifications, adequacy and appropriateness of     
  personnel to accomplish proposed activities; (3) feasibility and likelihood of     
  producing meaningful results based on the significance of the proposed activities  
  and relevant evaluation procedures; (4) overall match between the proposed         
  programs and the nation's health priorities and needs; and (5) reasonableness of   
  the proposed budget in relation to the work proposed.                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.137 COMMUNITY PROGRAMS TO IMPROVE                                                 
MINORITY HEALTH GRANT PROGRAM                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                            
  SERVICES                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title XVII, Section 1707(e)(1), 42          
  U.S.C. 300u et seq.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To support minority community health coalitions to develop, implement, and         
  conduct demonstration projects which coordinate integrated community-based         
  screening and outreach services, and include linkages for access and treatment to  
                                                                                     
  minorities in high-risk, low-income communities; and to support minority

                                                                                     
  community health coalitions involving non-traditional partners in carrying out

                                                                                     
  projects to increase the educational understanding of HIV/AIDS, increase

                                                                                     
  testing, and improve access to HIV/AIDS prevention and treatment serious.

                                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                     
  Project Grants.

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds are to be used to conduct collaborative efforts to modify the behavioral     
  and/or environmental conditions which are implicated in the health problems of     
  minority groups: for example, cancer; cardiovascular disease and stroke;           
  chemical dependency; diabetes; homicide, suicide, and unintentional injuries;      


                                                                                11-08
  infant mortality; human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection and acquired
  immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). These projects are to address socio-
  cultural and linguistic barriers to care and should have the potential for
  replication in similar communities. Funds are not to be used for the provision of
  health care services, construction, augmentation of ongoing Office of Minority
  Health (OMH) supported demonstrations, or to supplant ongoing project
  activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are private nonprofit community-based minority serving
  organizations which will serve as the grantee organization for the coalition.
  Faith based organizations are eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Members of minority groups: American Indians or Alaska Natives; Asians;
  Blacks or African Americans; Hispanics or Latinos; Native Hawaiians or other
  Pacific Islanders; or subgroups of these populations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proof of nonprofit status is required as part of the application submission.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program does not require preapplication coordination. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official designated as the
  single point of contact in the State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be filed with applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review. This program is also covered by the Public Health System
  reporting requirements.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling (240) 453-8822 or writing to: Ms.
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS e-Grants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS e-Grants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Accepted applications will be reviewed by a review panel that will make
  recommendations on the technical merit based on the published criteria. After
  considering the recommendations of the panel, the Deputy Assistant Secretary
  for Minority Health, will make a final decision on funding projects and a notice
  of grant award will be issued.
Deadlines:
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will
  be returned to the applicant unread.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 to 120 days from the application deadline date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant projects can have a 3-year project period with 12-month budget periods.
  Following the initial budget period, continued funding is subject to the
  availability of funds and satisfactory program performance. Payments will be
  made either on a monthly cash request basis or under a letter of credit. Necessary
  instructions regarding payment procedure will be provided at the time the notice
  of grant award is issued.
Reports:
  Grantees must submit progress reports with final performance report due 90 days
  after the end of the project period. Financial Status Reports are due 90 days after
  the end of budget period with final financial status report due 90 days after the
  end of the project period.
                                                                                  1283
