Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June           
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                       
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000      
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit              
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a         
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,      
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. For nonprofit recipients, audits are to be     
  carried out in accordance with the provision of OMB Circular No. A-133.               
Records:                                                                                
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other           
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer    
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.                              
Account Identification:                                                                 
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $6,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $181,266 to $270,000; $200,000.                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  45 CFR 74 and 92. Specific program requirements are contained in the Federal          
  Register Notice, the application instructions, and the PHS Grants Policy              
  Statement.                                                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Program Contact: Ms. Cynthia H. Amis, Director, Division of Program                   
  Operations, Office of Minority Health, Office of Public Health and Science,           
  Office of the Secretary, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 700, Rockville, MD               
  20852. Telephone: (240) 453-8444. Grants Management Contact: Office of                
  Grants Management, Office of Public Health and Science, 1101 Wootton                  
  Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852, Telephone (240) 453-8822.                    
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.omhrc.gov .                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  The following are examples of activities funded under this program; 1)                
  Developing a program to prevent the incidence, increase the diagnosis and             
  improve the management of childhood asthma through educational sessions,              
  screenings, events, case management and ongoing support; 2) conducting vision         
  assessment, eye health education and referral to eye doctors, disseminating           
  health education materials in 7 languages, and providing diabetes screening,          
  counseling and referral; and 3)developing outreach and education activities,          
  complemented by efforts of faith-based organizations, to address HIV in the           
  African American community.                                                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Complete review criteria are published in the Federal Register Notice or can be       
  obtained from the Program contact. Listed below are some criteria used to             
  review applications: 1) consistency of project's goals and objectives with the        
  Office of Minority Health's mission; 2) coherence and feasibility of methodology      
  and activities selected to address the problem as evidence in the proposed            
  implementation plan; 3) strength of proposed grant organization's management          
  capability; 4) adequacy of qualifications, experience and cultural competence of      
  proposed personnel; and 5) strength of analysis of potential impact or innovation     
  the project proposes to generate.                                                     
                                                                                        
93.138 PROTECTION AND ADVOCACY FOR                                                      
                                                                                        
INDIVIDUALS WITH MENTAL ILLNESS                                                         
   (Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness                         
  (PAIMI).)                                                                             
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES                                            
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                                        
  SERVICES                                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Protection and Advocacy for Individuals with Mental Illness Act of 1986, 42           
  U.S.C. 10801, et seq., as amended; Public Health Services Act, Title V, 42            
  U.S.C. 290aa, et seq; Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights        
  Act, as amended, October 30, 2000, 42 U.S.C. 6041 et seq.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To enable the expansion of the Protection and Advocacy system established in          
  each State to: (1) Protect and advocate the rights of individuals with mental         
  illness; (2) investigate incidents of abuse and neglect of individuals with mental    
  illness if the incidents are reported to the system or if there is probable cause to  
  believe that the incidents occurred; (3)investigate incidents of serious injury and   


1284                                                                              11-08

  deaths in public and private care and treatment facilities and non-medical
  community-based facilities for children and youth; and (4) to receive reports of
  all serious injuries and deaths related to incidents of seclusion and restraint in
  public and private care and treatment facilities in the States and Territories.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to assist in meeting the costs of planning, developing,
  expanding, and implementing activities to support attainment of the protection
  and advocacy goals. Grant funds must supplement, not supplant, nonfederal
  funds available in the State in which the protection and advocacy system is
  established. Not more than 10 percent of an allotment can be used for providing
  technical assistance and training for staff, and a system which is a public entity
  cannot be required by the State to obligate more than 5 percent of the allotment
  for administrative expenses.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local government agencies, public or private organizations designated
  by the Governor under Part C of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and
  Bill of Rights Acts as systems to protect and advocate the rights of persons with
  developmental disabilities in that State.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals with significant mental illness or severe emotional impairment
  (children) who are at risk for abuse, neglect, or civil rights violations while
  residing in care or treatment facilities have service priority. Persons with
  significant mental illness and severe emotional impairment living in the
  community, including their own home, may be served as determined by their
  state protection and advocacy systems PAIMI program funded priorities and
  objectives and available resources. includes persons who are in the process of
  being admitted to a facility rendering care or treatment, persons being
  transported to such a facility, or persons who are involuntarily confined in a
  municipal detention facility, jails, or prisons.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. For other grantees, costs will be determined in
  accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR Part 74, Subpart Q.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  An annual application is required in accordance with 42CFR Part 51.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are directly awarded by the Center for Mental Health Services to the
  system established in the State to protect and advocate the rights of persons with
  developmental disabilities, as outlined in the "Developmental Disabilities
  Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000", as amended October 30, 2000 by
  Public Law 106-420 (45 USC 6041 et seq.) .
Deadlines:
  Contact Headquarters Office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula provisions are stated in the authorizing Act, Public Law 106-420, at
  Section 112. Allotments are based equally on each State's population and each
  State's population weighted by relative per capital income except that no State's
  allotment (including the District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto
  Rico) will be less than $260,000 and no U.S. Territory's allotment will be less
  than $139,300.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Each allotment is available for obligation over a 24-month period; payments are
  made through an Electronic Transfer System.
Reports:
  By January 1, an annual report must be submitted in accordance with the
  requirements stated in the authorizing Act (Public Law 106-420) at Section
  105(a) (7) and Section 114. Financial status reports are required annually within
  90 days after grant period until all funds are liquidated.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, 45 CFR 74.26 requires that for-profit
  recipients and subrecipients have an audit performed in accordance with
  Government Auditing Standards or Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records must be retained for at least 3 years after the date of submission of
