  required financial status reports.                                                
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-1362-0-1-550.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 33,320,000; FY 08 $33,320,000; and FY 09 est not reported.         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $215,800 to $2,999,964; $584,561.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  HHS Grants Policy Statement, 45 CFR 1386 Subpart B (DD regulations) and 42        
  CFR 51 (PAIMI regulations), Notice of Proposed Rulemaking FR 59739:               
  64367ff, Dec. 14, 1994, 45 CFR 92 Uniform Administrative Requirements for         
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments; 45 CFR          
  74 Uniform Administrative Requirements for Awards and Subawards to                
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, Other Nonprofit Organizations, and   
  Commercial Organizations.                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Program Contact: Ms. Karen S. Armstrong, Program Officer, Protection and          
  Advocacy Program, Division of State and Community Systems Development,            
  Center for Mental Health Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services     
  Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, 1 Choke Cherry           
  Road, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (240) 276-1741. Grants Management           
  Contact: LouEllen M. Rice, Grants Management Officer, Division of Grants          
  Management, Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration,            
  Department of Health and Human Services, Room 7-1091, 1 Choke Cherry              
  Road, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (240) 276-1404. Use the same numbers        
  for FTS.                                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.samhsa.gov .

                                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  None.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Applications for allotments must fulfill statutory requirements.                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
93.140 INTRAMURAL RESEARCH TRAINING AWARD                                           
   (IRTA)                                                                           
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                           
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  42 U.S.C. 282(b)(13); 42 U.S.C. 284(b)(1)(C); 42 U.S.C 287c-21(a); 42 U.S.C.      
  286b-3; 42 U.S.C. 287c-21; 42 U.S.C. Part 63; Health Professionals Education      
  Partnerships Act, Title IV-Miscellaneous Provisions, Section 409.                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  The National Institutes of Health (NIH) IRTA Traineeships are established for     
  the principal benefit of the participants and to provide opportunities for        
  developmental training and practical research experience in a variety of          
  disciplines related to biomedical research, medical library research and related  
  fields. The IRTA components are: 1) Postdoctoral IRTA - is designed to provide    
  advance practical research experience to physicians and other doctoral            
  researchers who are at the beginning stages of their professional research        
  careers; 2) Predoctoral IRTA - is designed to provide practical research training 
  and experience to students, by supplementing academic course work and/or          
  encouraging pursuit of professional careers in biomedical research to: a) students
  enrolled in doctoral degree programs in biomedical sciences; b) students who      
  have been accepted into graduate, doctoral, or medical degree programs and        
  wish an opportunity to delay or interrupt their education for an interim research 
  experience before entering school; 3) post baccalaureate IRTA - is designed to    
  provide recent college graduates, particularly minorities, women, and persons     
  with disabilities, an opportunity to postpone application to graduate or medical  
  school and to provide a means to introduce individuals early in their careers to  
  the research field, encourage their pursuit of professional careers in biomedical 
  research, and allow additional time to pursue successful application to either    
  graduate or medical school programs; 4) technical IRTA - is designed to produce   
  a cadre of highly trained research support professionals capable of performing    
  the latest advanced techniques in a laboratory by developing the trainees' skills 
  in the conduct of basic and applied research; and 5) student IRTA - is designed   
  to provide a developmental training experience to promising high school and       
                                                                                    
  undergraduate and graduate students who have expressed a strong interest in or

                                                                                    
  are studying disciplines related to biomedical sciences.

                                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                    
  Project Grants.

                                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                    


                                                                               11-08
  Participants in the IRTA Program will be provided access to NIH facilities and
  equipment and assistance in their training from senior NIH researchers. Trainees
  may not engage in primary patient care activities, be assigned official
  supervisory responsibilities, or sign documents on behalf of the Government.
  Funding support will come from the individual National Research Institutes,
  Centers and Divisions (ICD) that comprise the National Institutes of Health. All
  funding is discretionary and subject to the availability of appropriations and
  apportionment. The IRTA Program does not include financial loans.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Candidates for IRTA Program must be U.S. Citizens or Permanent Resident
  Aliens: 1) Postdoctoral IRTA participants must possess a Ph.D., M.D., D.D.S.,
  D.M.D., D.V.M. or equivalent degree in biomedical, behavioral or related
  sciences; or certification by a university as meeting all the requirements leading
  to such a doctorate; and 5 or fewer years of relevant postdoctoral experience and
  up to 2 additional years of experience not oriented toward research (i.e., clinical
  training for physicians); 2) predoctoral IRTA participants must be: a) students
  enrolled in Ph.D., M.D., D.D.S., D.M.D., D.V.M., or equivalent degree
  programs at fully accredited U.S. universities, which frequently involves
  dissertation research. The research experience is undertaken as an integral part
  of the student's ongoing academic preparation and is credited toward completion
  of degree requirements; or b) students who have been accepted into graduate,
  doctoral, or medical degree programs and who have written permission from
  their school either to delay entrance for up to 1 year, or to interrupt their current
  schooling and to return within 1 year to their degree granting programs; 3) post
  baccalaureate IRTA participants are individuals who have graduated from a fully
  accredited college or U.S. university no more than 2 years prior to the activation
  date of traineeship, and intend to apply to graduate or medical school in
  biomedical research within the next year or students who have been accepted
  into graduate, other doctoral or medical degree programs and who have written
  permission of their school to delay entrance for up to 1 year; 4) technical IRTA
  participants are individuals who have graduated from a fully accredited U.S.
  college or university with a bachelor's or master's degree in any discipline; and
  5) student IRTA participants are at least 16 years of age and are enrolled at least
  half-time in high school or have been accepted for or are enrolled as an
  undergraduate or graduate in an accredited U.S. college or university and are in
  good academic standing.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The IRTA Program benefits the participants by combining an opportunity for
  study with practical work experience and valuable research training experience
  at the NIH.
Credentials/Documentation:
  These standards are contained in the Applicant Eligibility section.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicant may send the application documentation to a specific IC, or send
  application documentation to the NIH Office of Education: 1) Postdoctoral
  IRTA applicants must submit CV, bibliography, 3 letters of reference, statement
  of research goals, official copy of transcript, and must provide an official copy
  of doctoral degree and brief summary of doctoral dissertation; 2) predoctoral
  IRTA applicants must submit CV, bibliography, 3 letters of reference
  emphasizing research potential, statement of research goals, an official copy of
  undergraduate, graduate, and/or medical school transcript, and verification from
  the university that the applicants is in good academic standing, is enrolled in a
  doctoral degree program, and that the school is agreeable to the student's
  participation. In addition, (if applicable), must have written permission from
  their institutions to interrupt their educational program including a written
  agreement allowing students to return to their degree program within 1 year; 3)
  post baccalaureate IRTA applicants must submit CV, bibliography, 3 letters of
  reference emphasizing potential, statement of research goals, and official copy of
  undergraduate school transcript; 4) technical IRTA applicants must submit a
  resume or CV, 2 letters of reference, statement of career goals, and official copy
  of undergraduate transcript; and 5) student IRTA applicants must submit a
  resume or CV, 2 letters of reference, official copy of school transcript, letter
  from school verifying academic standing, information on honors and
  achievements, and statement of interest in biomedical research.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made by the interested Institutes or Centers based on the information
  provided by the applicant, the availability of NIH researchers to provide training,
  and the availability of financial and other resources to support the research
  training.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally, an applicant is advised that an award has or has not been provided
  within 90 days from submitting an application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  1) Postdoctoral IRTA component: Initial traineeship are for 1 or 2 years with a
                                                                                    1285
