  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000   
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit           
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a      
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,   
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative         
  agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal          
  officials.                                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Expenditures and other financial and program records must be retained for 3        
  years from the day on which the awardee submits the final financial status report  
  for the report period.                                                             
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0862-0-1-552.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  Grants: FY 07 $26,906,032; FY 08 $26,288,517; and FY 09 est $26,264,096.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $28,248 to $3,187,367; $1,076,241.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  NIEHS WETP (Worker Education and Training Program) has continued to                
  support training to protect the men and women who handle hazardous waste and       
  materials and who respond to emergencies involving these materials: 131,000        
  workers received training in nearly 8000 classes - a significant increase from the 
  previous year resulting from the recruitment efforts of the awardees and an        
  increase in demand for initial and refresher Superfund site worker training. The   
  NIEHS WETP continued to provide training in all 50 states, Puerto Rico, and        
  the Pacific territories. Indeed, during a TOPOFF national preparedness exercise,   
  an NIEHS WETP training team was activated to assist in Guam in the clean-up        
  after a dirty bomb explosion. A new five year Request for Applications (RFA) is    
  expected for re-competition of the program in July 2009. Throughout the WETP       
  programs but particularly through the Brownfields and Minority Worker              
  Training Programs, the NIEHS WETP reached out to serve those workers most          
  in need - young working men and women, people of color, who live in polluted       
  brownfields communities and are struggling to better their own lives and their     
  own communities; Spanish-speaking men and women, native born and recent            
  immigrants, who face unacceptably high rates of occupational injury, illness,      
  and even death; and Native American people such as the Navaho railroad crews       
  who, unknown to the general public, are key in preventing and responding to        
  chemical railcar accidents. These are not handout programs; these are bootstrap

  programs where workers get safety and health training that empowers them, that

  they take back to their communities, and that, in the case of the inner city youth

                                                                                     
  they train, produce proud taxpaying citizens - frontline environmental workers.    
  WETP is a national program and as such recognizes its duty to serve during         
  national emergencies. From the World Trade Center to Katrina to the California

  Wildfires, the WETP activates under the National Response Framework -              
  helping to identify the hazardous wastes and materials released during these       
  disasters while developing and delivering safety and health training keyed to      
  these hazards. Many thousands of responders have benefitted from this training,    
  and the WETP has received praise for its work from the U.S. Army Corp of           
  Engineers, FEMA, and OSHA. In the twenty years since Congress created this         
  program, over one and a half million workers have benefitted. During the           
  upcoming year (2007-2008), WETP will build upon this record. In particular,        
  WETP will further develop and implement services to Spanish-speaking workers       
  - meeting their needs for training they can understand and implement. The          
  WETP will continue to prepare for disasters that are certain to occur; for         
  example, curricula and trainers are being prepared for the requirements of a       
  long-term response to a major, devastating earthquake. And the WETP will           
  continue to maintain a gold standard of safety and health training - real hands-on 
  and classroom training that our evaluations show reduces occupational death,       
  disease, and injury. In addition, the WETP has initiated a Small Business          
  Innovation Research (SBIR)/Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR)               
  Program to create products that will support high quality health and safety        
  training for hazardous waste workers and emergency responders utilizing on-line    
  learning. In FY 2006, WETP issued four Phase I SBIR awards and 2 Phase II          
  SBIR awards. Between four to six SBIR/STTR awards will be made in FY 2007          
  and FY 2008.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  42 CFR 52; 45 CFR 74; 45 CFR 92; NIH Guide to Grants and Contracts; NIH            
  Grants Policy Statement March 1, 2001. Other publications, information, and        
  applications and kits are available from the Office of Extramural Research,        
  Outreach and Activities Resources, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD     
  20892, and the NIEHS (MD EC-22), P.O. Box 12233, 111 Alexander Drive,              
  Research Triangle Park, NC 27709.                                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Headquarters Office: Program Contact: Mr. Joseph T. Hughes, Jr., Program           
  Director, Worker Education and Training Program, National Institute of             
  Environmental Health Sciences, National Institutes of Health, Department of        
  Health and Human Services, P.O. Box 12233, Research Triangle Park, NC              
  27709. Telephone: (919) 541-0217, E-mail: Hughes3@niehs.nih.gov. Grants            


                                                                               11-08 
  Management Contact: Carolyn Mason, Grants Management Officer, Grants
  Management Branch, Division of Extramural Research and Training, National
  Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, National Institutes of Health,
  Department of Health and Human Services, P.O. Box 12233, Research Triangle
  Park, NC 27709. Telephone: (919) 541-1373, E-mail: Mason6@niehs.nih.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.niehs.nih.gov/careers/hazmat/index.cfm
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Programs provide health and safety training and education for occupational
  populations involved in waste handling and processing at active and inactive
  hazardous substance treatment, storage and disposal facilities; cleanup, removal,
  containment, or remedial action at waste sites; hazardous substance emergency
  response; chemical emergency response; Resource Conservation and Recovery
  Act corrective actions; hazardous substance disposal site risk assessment and
  investigation, remedial actions or clean-up by State and local personnel; urban
  communities surrounding brownfields sites; and transportation of hazardous
  wastes.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The following factors considered for applications for full program cooperative
  agreements include: (1) Methods and techniques to be used for identifying,
  describing, and accessing target worker populations and anticipated impact of
  the proposed program; (2) evidence of the organization's performance and
  effectiveness in planning, implementing and operating appropriate worker health
  and safety training and education programs; (3) adequacy of the detailed
  program plan for curricula development, training of instructors, distribution of
  course materials, and direct student training; (4) technical and professional
  expertise of the proposed program director, present or proposed staff, and
  consultants; (5) methods proposed for evaluating appropriateness, quality, and
  effectiveness of training; (6) availability of appropriate facilities and equipment
  to support the described educational and training activities including hands-on
  instruction and demonstration; (7) evidence of the organization's past
  performance and effectiveness in planning, implementing, and operating training
  and education programs for workers; (8) the likelihood that the program will
  continue beyond the grant period; and (9) reasonableness of the proposed
  program activities.
93.143 NIEHS SUPERFUND HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES-
BASIC RESEARCH AND EDUCATION
   (NIEHS Superfund Research Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Title I, Section III,
  and Title II, Section 209, Public Law 99- 499, as amended; Comprehensive
  Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA) of 1980,
  as amended, Section 311(a), Public Law 96-510; Public Health Service Act,
  Section 301, Public Law 78-410, as amended; Public Law 99-500.
OBJECTIVES:
  To establish a unique program linking biomedical research with engineering,
  geoscience and ecological research. The goals of the program are to establish
  and support an innovative program of basic research and training consisting of
  multi-project, interdisciplinary efforts and individual investigator projects. Areas
  of research may include: (1) methods and technologies to detect hazardous
  substances in the environment; (2) advance techniques for the detection,
  assessment, and evaluation of the effects of hazardous substances on humans;
  (3) methods to assess the risks to human health presented by hazardous
  substances; and (4) and basic biological, chemical, and physical methods to
  reduce the amount and toxicity of hazardous substances. It is intended that
  advanced or graduate training be integrated into the multi-project research
  program to provide opportunities in biomedical and environmental health,
  environmental sciences, ecology, and geosciences. The Program encourages the
  integration of interdisciplinary training to ensure that its students are prepared to
  tackle the complex issues presented by hazardous waste sites.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Research grants are intended to support the direct costs of a project, in
  accordance with an approved budget, plus an appropriate amount for indirect
  costs. Grants made under this program are for university-based programs, and
  the objective is to establish and maintain coordinated research efforts that link
  basic biomedical research with related engineering, hydrogeological and
  ecological studies. In addition, the Superfund Research Program supports small
  business research through the Small Business Innovative Research (SBIR) and
  Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs. The award and use of
  funds are subject to applicable provisions of basic statutory authorities,
                                                                                    1287
