  appropriations acts, pertinent regulations, and operating policies of the National  
  Institute of Environmental Health Science (NIEHS), the National Institutes of       
  Health (NIH), and the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS).               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  An accredited institution of higher education, as defined in the Higher Education   
  Act, 20 U.S.C. (annotated) 3381, may submit an application and receive a grant      
  for support of research by a named principal investigator. Subcontracts may be      
  made with public and private organizations, including: generators of hazardous      
  wastes; persons involved in the detection, assessment, evaluation, and treatment    
  of hazardous substances; owners and operators of facilities at which hazardous      
  substances are located; and State, local and Tribal governments. Nonprofit          
  organizations which are incorporated under 501(c)(4) are prohibited from            
  receiving grants. Organizations applying for a grant under the SBIR/STTR            
  programs must qualify as a U.S.-owned Small Business Concern (SBC).                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Any accredited institution of higher education engaged in biomedical research       
  and/or engineering and ecological research. SBIR and STTR awards are                
  restricted to small business that meet NIH's criteria for SBC. Tribal entities that 
  meet these requirements are eligible to apply.                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applications must be signed by appropriate officials of the submitting              
  institution. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-       
  87 for State and local governments, A-21 for universities, and A-122 for private    
  nonprofit other than universities. For-profit organizations, costs are determined   
  in accordance with 48 CFR, Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition                  
  Regulations. For other grantees, costs will be determined by HHS Regulations        
  45 CFR 74, Subpart Q.                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Letter of Intent Prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent.     
  Although it is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into the review of  
  a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows IC staff to       
  estimate the potential review workload and plan the review. It is due one month     
  prior to the receipt of the applications. Applications for the Superfund Research   
  Program are accepted in response to funding opportunity announcements (FOA)         
  which are posted on National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences website     
  (www.niehs.nih.gov) under the tab "funding opportunities". Applications             
  submitted in response to a multi component FOA must use the PHS 398 (version        
  dated 11/07) paper submission. Application instructions are available at            
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html in an interactive           
  format. Applications submitted in response to an individual investigator FOA        
  must be submitted electronically through Grants.gov (http://www.grants.gov)         
  using the SF424 Research and Related (R&R) forms and the SF424 (R&R)                
  Application Guide. SBIR/STTR grant applications are accepted in response to         
  the NIH Omnibus solicitation using the SF424 electronic application process         
  (http://www.grants.gov). The grant solicitation is released in early spring of each 
  year and has 3 receipt dates: April 5, August 5 and December 5.                     
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Grants are awarded on the basis of a dual review of the applications. The initial   
  review for scientific merit is conducted by a Special Emphasis Panel of peers       
  with appropriate scientific expertise; the second level of review is performed by   
  the National Advisory Environmental Health Sciences Council for program             
  relevance and recommendations. The final approval of these recommendations          
  and decisions concerning funding is made by the Director of NIEHS or, if in         
  conflict, by appropriate NIH staff.                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact Headquarters Office for deadlines information.                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 9 to 12 months.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                              
  A principal investigator may question the substantive or procedural aspects of      
  the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the            
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available      
  on the NIH home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html.                
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewal requests are subject to the same criteria as new applications.              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Research Grants for the multi component and individual investigator may be          
  awarded for up to 5 years, generally in 12-month budget periods. Funds are          
  released primarily on the basis of an Electronic Transfer System. Grants made       
  under the SBIR/STTR grants are made generally made for six months to two            
  years.                                                                              
Reports:                                                                              
  Annual and final progress reports and financial status reports are required.        
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      


1288                                                                            11-08

  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants are subject to inspection and
  audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.
Records:
  Expenditure and other financial and program records must be retained for 3
  years from the day on which the grantee submits the final financial status report
  for the report period.
Account Identification:
  75-0862-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $46,821,724; FY 08 $46,092,440; and FY 09 est $46,061,885.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $11,285 to $3,262,137; $1,377,110.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The NIEHS Superfund Research Program utilizes three grant mechanisms to
  achieve its goals of advancing the understanding of human health effects of
  environmental exposures to hazardous substances and in developing innovative
  technologies for remediating these contaminants. One mechanism the Program
  uses is to support research through multi-project grant awards. In 2007, 15
  ongoing grants were non-competitively renewed. No new awards were made in
  2007. The Program released a Request for Applications in September 2006 to
  allow for the recompetition of this multi-project research program. As a result of
  this solicitation, in 2008, two existing grantees successfully recompeted and
  were awarded five-year awards. Another Request for Applications was released
  in September 2007 and it is anticipated that this solicitation will result in two or
  three awards in 2009. Examples of recent research advances suggest that
  nuclear hormone receptors may be affected by arsenic; that brines can be the
  source of groundwater contamination; that microwave technology can be used to
  degrade volatile organic compounds; and that folic acid supplementation may be
  an important intervention in lowering total blood arsenic to persons exposed to
  arsenic in drinking water. Additional research advances can be access on the
  Program's webpage: http://tools.niehs.nih.gov/sbrp/researchbriefs/index.cfm.
  The second grant mechanism the Superfund Basic Research Program uses is
  individual investigator research project grants. Eight three-year awards were
  made using this mechanism in 2006 and were non competitively renewed in
  2007. The focus of this research effort is to develop novel methods for
  environmental exposure assessment and site characterization, study
  bioavailability, and develop remediation/characterization methodologies of
  contaminants in sediments. In addition, in the fall of 2006 the Program released
  a Request for Applications which resulted in 4 new three-year awards being
  made in 2007 and an additional three new three-year awards made in 2008. The
  RFA specifically focused on innovative approaches for remediating sediments.
  In the fall of 2007, the Program released another RFA in the area of using
  nanomaterials to study the mechanisms of bioremediation. As a result of this
  announcement, it is anticipated that three or four awards will be made in the fall
  of 2008. The third mechanism used by the Superfund Research Program is the
  Small Business Innovative Research SBIR/STTR grant programs. The
  Superfund Research Program uses the NIH Omnibus solicitation to announce its
  areas of interest, which, to date, includes remediation and monitoring of
  hazardous substances. In 2007, one phase I SBIR, one phase 2 SBIR, and one
  phase 1 STTR awards were made. And one Phase 2 SBIR and one Phase 2
  STTR grants were non-competitively renewed.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  42 CFR 52; 45 CFR 74; 45 CFR 92; NIH Guide to Grants and Contracts; NIH
  Grants Policy Statement March 1, 2001. Other publications, information, and
  applications and kits are available from the Office of Extramural Research,
  Outreach and Activities Resources, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD
  20892, and the NIEHS (MD EC-22), P.O. Box 12233, 111 Alexander Drive,
  Research Triangle Park, NC 27709.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Dr. Claudia Thompson, Acting Director, Superfund
  Hazardous Substance Basic Research and Training Program, Division of
  Extramural Research and Training, National Institute of Environmental Health
  Sciences, National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of
  Health and Human Services, P.O. Box 12233, Research Triangle Park, NC
  27709. E-mail thomps14@niehs.nih-gov, Telephone: (919) 541-4638. Grants
  Management Contact: Dorothy G. Duke, Grants Management Officer, Grants
  Management Branch, Division of Extramural Research and Training, National
  Institute of Environmental Health Sciences, National Institutes of Health,
  Department of Health and Human Services, P.O. Box 12233, Research Triangle
  Park, NC 27709. Telephone: (919) 541-2749; E-mail: duke3@niehs.nih.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www-apps.niehs.nih.gov/sbrp/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
