EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  The Superfund Basic Research Program is university-based basic research and        
  training program consisting of coordinated, multi-component interdisciplinary      
  programs that link basic biomedical research with related engineering,             
  hydrogenological epidemiological, and ecological studies. This interdisciplinary   
  program supports basic research in the following: (1) Development and use of       
  methods and technologies to detect hazardous substances in the environment         
  such as the development of a cell bioassay system that detects dioxin-like HAHs    
  and PAHs in extracts of biological, environmental, and food and feed samples;      
  (2) development of advanced techniques for the detection, assessment, and          
  evaluation of the effects of human health of hazardous substances such as a        
  number of projects focused on arsenic detection, biomarker development,            
  mechanisms of action and remediation methods; (3) development of methods to        
  assess the risk to human health presented by hazardous substances such as the      
  projects focused on the human health effects associated with exposure to PCBs ;    
  and (4) the development and use of basic biological, chemical, and physical        
  methods and technologies to reduce the amount of toxicity of hazardous             
  substance such as the development of bioremediation strategies using microbes      
  and other organisms to reduce organics and metals from environmental media.        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Major factors considered in the evaluation of responsive applications include:     
  (1) Scientific merit of each proposed project, including the novelty, originality, 
  and feasibility of the approach and the adequacy of the experimental design; (2)   
  technical merit and justification of each core unit; (3) competence of the         
  investigators to accomplish the proposed research goals, their commitments, and    
  the amount of time they will devote to the program; (4) scope of the overall       
  effort in relation to the objective of the program to create unique                
  interdisciplinary programs to eventually include, not only biomedical              
  components, but also engineering, ecological and/or hydrogenological               
  components; (5) adequacy of the facilities to perform the proposed research; (6)   
  integration of the various projects and core units into an effective program and   
  plans for interactions among investigators; (7) adequacy and commitment of         
  institutional resources to administer an integrated, collaborative program; (8)    
  appropriateness of the budget for the proposed program; (9) relevance of           
                                                                                     
  proposed research to problems associated with hazardous waste substances; and

                                                                                     
  (10) progress of program to date for completing renewal applications.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.145 AIDS EDUCATION AND TRAINING CENTERS                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, Title XXVI, Part F, Subpart II, Public Law 106-345;     
  Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006.                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  (1) To train health personnel, including practitioners in programs under this title
  and other community providers, in the diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of      
  HIV disease, including the prevention of the perinatal transmission of the         
  disease, including measures for the prevention and treatment of opportunistic      
  infections, and including (as applicable to the type of health professional        
  involved), prenatal and other gynecological care for women with HIV/AIDS; (2)      
  To train the faculty of schools of, and graduate departments or programs of,       
  medicine, nursing, osteopathic medicine, dentistry, public health, allied health,  
  and mental health practice to teach health professions students to provide for the 
  health care needs of individuals with HIV/AIDS; (3) To develop and disseminate     
  curricula and resource materials relating to the care and treatment of individuals 
  with such disease and the prevention of the disease among individuals who are      
                                                                                     
  at risk of contracting the disease; and (4) To develop protocols for the medical

                                                                                     
  care of women with HIV/AIDS, including prenatal and other gynecological care

                                                                                     
  for such women.; and (5) To develop protocols for the medical care of women

                                                                                     
  with HIV/AIDS, including prenatal and other gynecological care for such            
  women.                                                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.

                                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                     
  Grants will be awarded for the establishment of AIDS Education and Training

                                                                                     
  Centers.

                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  Eligible entities include public and nonprofit private entities and schools and

                                                                                     
  academic health science centers. Eligible organizations are public and nonprofit

                                                                                     
  private entities and schools and academic health sciences centers, including

                                                                                     
  faith-based and community-based organizations. Applicants must have

                                                                                     
  extensive experience in the field of health professional training and adult

                                                                                     
  learning, HIV disease and disease management, and program administration and

                                                                                     
  monitoring. Applicants that fail to show experience in all three areas will not be

                                                                                     
  considered.

                                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  Primary health care personnel.

                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:



                                                                                11-08
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of HIV/AIDS.
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for
  awards.
Award Procedure:
  The review of applications is carried out by an ad hoc committee of experts in
  AIDS Education and Training and members of the staff of the Department of
  Health and Human Services (DHHS). Applications are reviewed for merit and
  are recommended for approval or disapproval. Final decisions are made by the
  Associate Administrator, HIV/AIDS Bureau.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 6 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Annual noncompetitive, competitive awards typically are for 5 years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are typcially awarded for a 5-year project period with 12-month budget
  periods.
Reports:
  Annual program reports, OMB-approved data reports, and special reports (if
  any) are required. In addition, a Financial Status Report is to be submitted
  within 90 days after the close of each budget period and a final Financial Status
  Report is required 90 days following the end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $33,177,624; FY 08 $32,528,024; and FY 09 est $28,700,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $450,000 to $5,120,000; $2,327,356.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  15 noncompetitive awards were made in FY 07. AETCs are providing AIDS
  education and training to approximately 120,000 health care providers each
  year. For FY 07 and FY 08, the emphasis of the AETCs is to provide hands on
  clinical training in the medical care of HIV infected patients and training on the
  use of highly active antiretrovial therapy. In FY 08, it is anticipated that 15
  noncompetitive awards will be made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Steven R. Young, M.S.P.H., Director, Division of Training and Technical
  Assistance/AIDS ETCs, HIV/AIDS Bureau, Health Resources and Services
  Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Room 7-29, 5600
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-5761 or Fax: (301)
  594-2835.
Headquarters Office:
                                                                                  1289
