  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                  
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                  
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.              
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)           
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                        
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  93.918, Grants to Provide Outpatient Early Intervention Services with Respect to      
  HIV Disease; 93.978, Preventive Health Services_Sexually Transmitted Diseases         
  Research, Demonstrations, and Public Information and Education Grants;                
  93.914, HIV Emergency Relief Project Grants.                                          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  AIDS Education and Training Centers have been funded to provide national              
  coverage of education and training for health care providers who care for HIV         
  infected patients. The grant recipients have been universities and institutions of    
  higher education and are primarily located in areas with a high incidence of          
  HIV/AIDS and within medically underserved areas.                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  In making grants, the Secretary shall give preference to qualified projects which     
  will -- (A) train, or result in the training of health professionals who will provide 
  treatment for minority individuals with HIV/AIDS and other individuals who are        
  at high risk of contracting such disease; (B) train, or result in the training of     
  minority health professionals and minority allied health professions to provide       
  treatment for individuals with such disease; and (C) train or result in the training  
  of health professionals and allied health professionals to provide treatment for      
  hepatitis B or C co-infected individuals. The acronym HIV stands for "human           
  immunodeficiency virus", the etiologic agent for acquired immune deficiency           
  syndrome (AIDS).                                                                      
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
93.150 PROJECTS FOR ASSISTANCE IN TRANSITION                                            
FROM HOMELESSNESS (PATH)                                                                
   (PATH)                                                                               
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                        
  SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES

                                                                                        
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN

                                                                                        
  SERVICES

                                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Title V, Part C, Section 521, as amended, 42 U.S.C.

                                                                                        
  290cc-21 et. seq.; Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Amendments Act

                                                                                        
  of 1990, Public Law 101-645.

                                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:

  To provide financial assistance to States to support services for individuals who     
  are suffering from serious mental illness or serious mental illness and substance     
  abuse; and are homeless or at imminent risk of becoming homeless. Programs            
  and activities include: (1) Outreach services; (2) screening and diagnostic           
                                                                                        
  treatment services; (3) habilitation and rehabilitation services; (4) community

                                                                                        
  mental health services; (5) alcohol or drug treatment services; (6) staff training;

                                                                                        
  (7) case management services; (8) supportive and supervisory services in

                                                                                        
  residential settings; (9) referrals for primary health services, job training,

                                                                                        
  educational services, and relevant housing services; and (10) prescribed set of

  housing services.                                                                     
                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                        
  Formula Grants.

                                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                        
  Funds may be used at the discretion of the State to achieve the described

  objectives except that funds cannot be used: (1) To support emergency shelters        
                                                                                        
  or construction of housing facilities; (2) for inpatient psychiatric or substance

                                                                                        
  abuse treatment costs; or (3) to make cash payments to intended recipients of

                                                                                        
  mental health or substance abuse services. Not more than 20 percent of the

                                                                                        
  payment may be expended for housing services; not more than 4 percent of the

                                                                                        
  total allocation may be expended for administrative expenses. The applicants          
  must agree that the payments will be expended solely for making grants to

                                                                                        
  political subdivisions of the State, and to nonprofit private entities (including

                                                                                        
  community-based veterans organizations and other community organizations)             
  for the purpose of providing the services.                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  States, District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealths of              
  Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands.                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Individuals who have a serious mental illness or serious mental illness and           
  substance abuse; and are homeless or are at imminent risk of becoming                 
  homeless.                                                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  This program is subject to 45 CFR 92, Uniform Administrative Requirements             
  for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments.                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  There is no preapplication requirement. This program is not subject to the            
1290                                                                              11-08

  intergovernmental review requirements of E.O. 12372, as implemented through
  DHHS regulations at 45 CFR 100. However, individual States may require, or an
  applicant State mental health agency may want to implement, coordination
  procedures similar to those specified in E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The Chief Executive Officer of a State or Territory must apply annually for an
  allotment. Applications include a completed application form and a set of
  assurances.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed for completeness and for compliance with legislative
  requirements. Grant awards are issued directly by the Center for Mental Health
  Services (CMHS) to the designated State agency.
Deadlines:
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for deadline dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 8 weeks.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The formula is cited in Section 524 of the Public Health Service Act, as
  amended by Public Law 101-645. The formula allots funds on the basis of the
  population living in urbanized areas of the State, compared to the population
  living in urbanized areas of the entire United States except that no State receives
  less than $300,000 ($50,000 for Territories). States must agree to make
  available, directly or through donations from public or private entities,
  nonfederal contributions equal to not less than $1 (in cash or in kind) for each
  $3 of Federal funds provided in such grant. Territories have no matching
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Each allotment is available for obligation for the award period (1-year);
  payments are made through an Electronic Transfer System.
Reports:
  Each State shall prepare and submit to the Secretary of Health and Human
  Services annual reports on its activities necessary for securing a record and a
  description of the purposes for which funds received under Section 521 were
  spent and the recipients of such funds, and for determining whether such
  amounts were expended in accordance with the provisions of the legislation.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records 3 years after the end
  of a budget period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action
  involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period,
  the records shall be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all
  issues which arise from it.
Account Identification:
  75-1362-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Formula Grants) FY 07 $51,873,000; FY 08 est $51,873,000; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $50,000 to $7,424,000; $910,053.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is estimated that 56 awards will be made in fiscal year 2007 and fiscal year
  2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 92, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements to State and Local Governments. HHS Policy Statement.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Dorrine Gross, PATH Associate Co-Director, Homeless
  Programs Branch, Division of Knowledge Development and Systems Change,
  SAMHSA/CMHS, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:
  (240) 276-1898. Grants Management Contact: Ms. LouEllen M. Rice, Grants
  Management Officer, SAMHSA, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Room # 7-1091
  Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (240) 276-1404. Use the same numbers for
  FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.samhsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
