  States have supported from one to as many as 40 local nonprofit agencies to         
  provide PATH-funded services to persons who are homeless and have a mental          
  illness.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applications must fulfill all statutory and regulatory requirements.                
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.153 COORDINATED SERVICES AND ACCESS TO

                                                                                      
RESEARCH FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, CHILDREN, AND                                            
YOUTH                                                                                 
                                                                                      
   (Ryan White Program)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

  Public Health Service Act, Title XXVI, Part D, as amended, Public Law 109-          
  415, Ryan White Care HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006.                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The purpose of this funding is providing family-centered care involving             
  outpatient or ambulatory care (directly or through contracts) to women, infants,    
  children, and youth with HIV/AIDS, and may be used to provide additional            
  support services to patients and families. and family members through the           
  provision of coordinated, comprehensive, culturally and linguistically              
  competent, family-centered services. Funds will be used to support programs         
  that provide primary medical care and: (1) Link established systems of care to      
  coordinate service delivery and ensure that HIV-infected women, infants             
  children, and youth have access to the existing and emerging HIV treatments         
  that can make a difference; (2) Implement HIV prevention programs for the           
                                                                                      
  transmission of HIV from mother to child; (3) Educate clients about the

                                                                                      
  opportunities for participation in clinical research and other research activities;

                                                                                      
  and (4) Address the intensity of service needs, high costs, and other complex

                                                                                      
  barriers to comprehensive care and research experienced by medically

                                                                                      
  underserved and challenging populations.

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                      
  All funds granted must be expended solely for carrying out the approved project

                                                                                      
  in accordance with application guidelines, the conditions of award and the

                                                                                      
  applicable cost principles.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Public and nonprofit private entities that provide primary care services, either

                                                                                      
  directly or by another entity that is linked with the grantee, either through a

                                                                                      
  contract, written partnership, or other formal agreement. Proof of nonprofit

                                                                                      
  status is required for nonprofit organizations. Primary care providers must show

                                                                                      
  proof of Medicaid eligibility.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Women, infants, children, and youth with HIV/AIDS and their affected family

                                                                                      
  members.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued

                                                                                      
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be

                                                                                      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

                                                                                      
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official

                                                                                      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information

                                                                                      
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from         
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be   
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                  
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the HIV/AIDS Bureau. The         
  Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for awards.      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  After approval by the Associate Administrator, the Division of Grants

                                                                                      
  Management Operations prepares a Notice of Grant Award and issues the award.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:

                                                                                      
  www.hrsa.gov.

                                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                      
  From 90 to 120 days.

Appeals:

  None.                                                                               
Renewals:

                                                                                      
  Grants may be made for up to 5-year project periods, subject to availability of

                                                                                      
  funds. After initial awards, projects may be renewed contingent upon submission

                                                                                      
  and approval of a continuation application.

                                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:



                                                                                11-08 
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made annually, subject to availability of funds. Initial awards will be
  made for 1 year and continuation awards may be made for an additional 4 years.
Reports:
  Annual program reports, annual program service reports and special reports must
  be submitted as required. Grantees must submit a Financial Status Report on SF
  269 within 90 days after the end of the budget period. The grantee must also
  submit an annual program data report, due March 15 each year, covering the just
  ended January 1 - December 31 calendar year. Beginning in Fiscal Year 2009,
  grantees must submit an Allocations Report, 60 days after the notice of grant
  award, and an Expenditures Report within 90 days after the end of the budget
  period, (OMB 0915-0318) A final Financial Status Report and final progress
  report must be submitted 90 days after the end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $66,778,587; and FY 08 est $68,578,587; and FY 09 est
  $68,578,587.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $230,384 to $2,569,004; $766,222.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, a total of 90 project grants were awarded, which included 17 Youth
  Services Initiative grants? It is estimated that a total of 90 projects will be
  funded in FY 08 and FY 09.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Maria Rios, MD, Division of Community Based Programs/HIV/AIDS Bureau,
  Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and
  Human Services, Room 7A-30, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857.
  Telephone: (301) 443-3995.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.110, Maternal and Child Health Federal Consolidated Programs; 93.994,
  Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant to the States.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A variety of agencies are funded under this grant program, but they all represent
  the collaboration of local health and social services agencies, both public and
  private, including faith-based and community-based organizations. All provide
  health service delivery to infected women, infants, children, and youth and
  provide family-centeredcase management and education regarding opportunities
  to participate in HIV/AIDS-related clinical research. Projects directly provide or
  arrange for a range of medical social, psychosocial and family support services.
  Features unique to each project demonstrate collectively a variety of strategies to
  meet the critical needs of HIV infected women, infants, children, and youth.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are included in the program guidance materials provided with
  application kits. Contact the HRSA Grant Application Center for details.
93.155 RURAL HEALTH RESEARCH CENTERS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
                                                                                  1291
