  Section 711 of the Social Security Act as amended by section 432 of the            
  Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To support the operation of rural health research centers and 1 year research      
  grants to provide an information base and policy analysis capability on the full   
  range of rural health services issues, including financing, recruitment and        
  retention of health professionals, access to care, health disparities and rural    
  delivery systems.                                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  All funds awarded should be expended solely for carrying out the approved          
  projects in accordance with the provisions of Section 711 of the Social Security   
  Act as amended by section 432 of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement        
  and Modernization Act of 2003.                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  All public and private entities, nonprofit and for-profit, including faith-based   
  and community-based organizations, and Federally recognized tribes and/or          
  tribal organizations, are eligible to apply. Please see individual grant guidances 
  at www.grants.gov for program-specific eligibility.                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  The entities that will benefit from this program are health care personnel, health 
  research personnel, and the general public.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under these CFDA programs for any required proof or certifications which must      
  be submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application            
  package.                                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find    
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Office of Rural Health.     
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for         
  awards.                                                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The review of applications is carried out by Federal and nonfederal professionals  
  in health services research. Applications are reviewed for merit and are           
  recommended for approval or disapproval. Final decisions are made by the           
  Director, Office of Rural Health Policy.                                           
Deadlines:                                                                           
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximatley 6 months.

Appeals:                                                                             
  None.

Renewals:                                                                            
  Research center awards may be made for up to 4-year project periods. Subject to    
  availability of funds, after initial awards, projects may be renewed non-

                                                                                     
  competitively contingent upon submission and approval of an application,

  availability of appropriated funds, and awardee's satisfactory performance. One-

                                                                                     
  year research grants are only available for one year.

                                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                     
  There are no statutory formula or matching requirements.

                                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                     
  Awards are made annually. Awards are normally made in a lump sum for the

                                                                                     
  entire budget period. Payments are made through an Electronic Transfer System

                                                                                     
  or Cash Demand System.

                                                                                     
Reports:

                                                                                     
  Annual Program reports and special reports (if any) are required. Targeted Rural

                                                                                     
  Health Research grantees are required to submit three quarterly reports and one

                                                                                     
  final report. In addition, a Financial Status Report is to be submitted within 90

                                                                                     
  days after the close of each budget period.

                                                                                     
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
                                                                                     
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit

                                                                                     
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000

                                                                                     
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit

                                                                                     
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a

                                                                                     
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,

                                                                                     
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of

                                                                                     
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-

                                                                                     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going

                                                                                     
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely

                                                                                     
  resolved.

                                                                                     


1292                                                                           11-08

Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $4,299,507; FY 08 est $$4,410,000; and FY 09 $$4,750,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For Research Centers: (FY 07) $400,000 to $600,000; $500,000 and for FY 08
  est $600,000 to $700,000, $650,000. For Targeted Rural Health Research
  Grants: FY 07 range and average is $150,000 and for FY 08 est. range and
  average is $150,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07 eight non-competitive research center grants were awarded and two
  Targeted Rural Health Research Grants were awarded. It is anticipated that in
  FY 08 and FY 09 there will be 6 Research Center awards and three Targeted
  Rural Health Research Grant awards.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Program Contact: Joan Van Nostrand, D.P.A. for Rural Health Research Centers
  or Erica Molliver, M.H.S. for Targeted Rural Health Research Centers, Office of
  Rural Health Policy, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department
  of Health and Human Services, Parklawn Building, Room 9A-55, 5600 Fishers
  Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-0835.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training
  Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch:
  Telephone: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In FY 07 the research centers focused on rural health services as they relate to
  the following topic areas: Rural Health Clinics, Public Health Workforce, Oral
  Health, HIT Implementation, and Emergency Medical Services (EMS). Targeted
  Rural Health Research Grants. In FY 07, the three Targeted Rural Health
  Research Grantees focused on asbestos-related disease, diabetes and obesity, and
  preventive care among rural Medicare beneficiaries.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria will be published in the HRSA Preview for competitive application
  cycles.
93.156 GERIATRIC TRAINING FOR PHYSICIANS,
DENTISTS AND BEHAVIORAL/MENTAL HEALTH
PROFESSIONALS
   (Geriatric Fellowships)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 753(b); 42 U.S.C. 294, as
  amended; Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998; Public Law
  105-392.
OBJECTIVES:
  Grants are given for faculty training projects in geriatric medicine, dentistry, and
  behavioral or mental health. The purpose of this grant program is to provide
  support, including fellowships, for geriatric training projects to train physicians,
  dentists and behavioral or mental health professionals who plan to teach geriatric
  medicine, geriatric dentistry or geriatric behavioral or mental health.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A grant may be made to meet the cost of a project which will propose: (1) a 1-
  year retraining program in geriatrics for: (a) physicians who are faculty in
  departments of internal medicine, family medicine (including osteopathic
  general practice), gynecology, geriatrics, and behavioral or mental health at
  schools of medicine and osteopathic medicine; (b) dentists who are faculty
  members at schools of dentistry or at hospital departments or dentistry; and (c)
  behavioral or mental health professionals who are faculty members in
  departments of behavioral or mental health; and/or (2) a 2-year internal medicine
  or family medicine fellowship program providing emphasis in geriatrics which
  shall be designed to provide training in clinical geriatrics and geriatrics research
  for: (a) physicians who have completed graduate medical education programs in
