  internal medicine, family medicine (including osteopathic general practice),        
  behavioral or mental health, neurology, gynecology, or rehabilitation medicine;     
  (b) dentists who have demonstrated a commitment to an academic career and           
  who have completed postdoctoral dental training, including postdoctoral dental      
  education programs or who have relevant advanced training or experience; and        
  (c) behavioral or mental health professionals who have completed graduate           
  medical education programs in behavioral or mental health. Each project for         
  which a grant is made must: (1) be staffed by full-time teaching physicians who     
  have experience or training in geriatric medicine or geriatric behavioral or        
  mental health; (2) be staffed, or enter into an agreement with an institution       
  staffed by full-time or part-time teaching dentists who have experience or          
  training in geriatric dentistry; (3) be staffed , or enter into an agreement with an
  institution staffed by full-time or part-time teaching behavioral or mental health  
  professionals who have experience or training in geriatric behavioral or mental     
  health; (4) be based in a graduate medical education program in internal            
  medicine or family medicine or in a department of geriatrics or behavioral or       
  mental health; (5) provide training in geriatrics and are exposed to the physical   
  and mental disabilities of elderly individuals through a variety of service         
  rotations, such as geriatric consultation services, acute care services, dental     
  services, geriatric behavioral or mental health units, day and home care            
  programs, rehabilitation services, extended care facilities, geriatric ambulatory   
  care and comprehensive evaluation units, and community care programs for            
  elderly mentally retarded individuals, and (6) provide training in geriatrics       
  through one or both of the two training options.                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Grants may be made to accredited public or private nonprofit schools of             
  medicine, schools of osteopathic medicine, teaching hospitals, or graduate          
  medical education programs.                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Grants may be made to accredited public or private nonprofit schools of             
  medicine, schools of osteopathic medicine, teaching hospitals, or graduate          
                                                                                      
  medical education programs.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued

                                                                                      
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be

                                                                                      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from

  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be

                                                                                      
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding

  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health

                                                                                      
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final

                                                                                      
  selections for awards.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from the

                                                                                      
  Headquarters Office.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:

                                                                                      
  www.hrsa.gov.

                                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                      
  From 4 to 6 months after receipt of applications.

                                                                                      
Appeals:

  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  At the end of the initial project period, competing continuation applications may   
  be submitted for up to three 3 years.                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Project periods are for 5 years.                                                    
Reports:                                                                              
  A Uniform summary progress report must be submitted annually. Financial             
  Status Reports are required within 90 days after the end of each budget period. A   
  final progress report and final Financial Status Report must be submitted within    
  90 days after the end of the project period.                                        
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                     
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000    
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit            
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a       
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,    
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                              
Records:                                                                              
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of         
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-    
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going            
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely   


                                                                                 11-08
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $5,668,968; FY 08 $6,477,197; and FY 09 est $6,429,964.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  FY 07: Range is $300,000 to $500,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, eleven (11) competing awards were funded. In FY 08, 11 non-
  competing continuation awards were funded. In FY 09 an estimated 11 non-
  competing continuation awards will be funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Nancy Douglas-Kersellius, Advanced Nurse Education, Branch,Division of
  Nursing, Health Resources and Services Administration, Public Health Service,
  Department of Health and Human Services, Room 8-C26, Parklawn Building,
  5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6333.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Johns Hopkins University, University of Texas Health Science Center at San
  Antonio.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All applications will be evaluated by peer reviewers to determine the extent to
  which the applicant documents the following criteria: (1) Need; (2) Response;
  (3) Evaluative Measures; (4) Impact (Curriculum/Proposed Training and
  Recruitment Plan); (5) Resources/Capabilities; and (6) Support Requested.
93.157 CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE
   (COEs)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 736, 42 U.S.C. 293, as amended;
  Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist eligible schools in supporting programs of excellence in health
  professions education for under-represented minority individuals. The grantee is
  required to use the funds awarded: (1) to develop a large competitive applicant
  pool through linkages with institutions of higher education, local school
  districts, and other community-based entities; and establish an education
  pipeline for health professions careers; (2) to establish, strengthen, or expand
  programs to enhance the academic performance of under-represented minority
  students attending the school; (3) to improve the capacity of such school to train,
  recruit, and retain under-represented minority faculty including the payment of
  stipends and fellowships; (4) to carry out activities to improve the information
  resources, clinical education, curricula and cultural competence, to facilitate the
  entry of under-represented minority students into health or allied health
  professions schools; (5) to facilitate faculty and student research on health issues
  particularly affecting under-represented minority groups, including research on
  issues relating to the delivery of health care; (6) to carry out a program to train
  students of the school in providing health services to a significant number of
  under-represented minority individuals through training provided to such
  students at community-based health facilities. These facilities provide such
  health services and are located at a site remote from the main site of the teaching
  facilities of the school; and (7) to provide stipends as appropriate.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds may be used by health professions schools to: (1) Establish,
  strengthen, or expand programs to enhance the academic performance of
  minority students attending the school; (2) establish, strengthen or expand
  programs to increase the number and quality of minority applicants to the
  school; (3) improve the capacity of the school to train, recruit, and retain
  minority faculty; (4) with respect to minority health issues, to carry out activities
                                                                                    1293
