  to improve the information resources and curricula of the school and clinical      
  education at the school; and (5) facilitate faculty and student research on health 
  issues particularly affecting minority groups.                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants are: accredited schools of allopathic medicine; osteopathic    
  medicine; dentistry; pharmacy; graduate programs in behavioral or mental           
  health; or other public and nonprofit health or educational entities. Historically 
  Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs), as described in Section 736(c)(2)(A)      
  of the Public Service Act, and which received a contract under Section 788B of     
  the Public Health Service Act (Advanced Financial Distress Assistance) for         
  fiscal year 1987, may apply for Centers of Excellence (COE) grants under           
  Section 736 of the Public Health Service Act. The four designated schools are:     
  Meharry School of Dentistry; Meharry School of Medicine; Tuskegee School of        
  Veterinary Medicine; and Xavier School of Pharmacy.                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Certain HBCUs and eligible health professions schools must train a significant     
  number of under-represented minority students in medicine, dentistry, and          
  pharmacy; faculty recruitment, training and retention; and faculty and student     
  research activities.                                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be     
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find    
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health            
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final           
  selections for awards.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from the         
  Headquarters office.                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                           
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  About 4 months after receipt of applications.                                      
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  At the end of the initial project period, competing continuation applications may  
  be submitted for up to three 3 years.                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project periods are for 3 years.                                                   
Reports:                                                                             
  A Uniform Summary Progress Report must be submitted annually within the            
  approved project period. Financial Status Reports are required within 90 days      
  after the end of each budget period. A final progress report and final Financial   
  Status Report must be submitted within 90 days after the end of the project

  period.

Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
                                                                                     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                     
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of

                                                                                     
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-

                                                                                     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going

                                                                                     
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely

                                                                                     
  resolved.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  75-0350-1-1-550.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  FY 07 $11,393,370; FY 08 $12,036,127; and FY 09 est reported.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  In FY 2008, it is projected that 4 non-competing continuation awards will be       
  issued. The range of FY 2008 financial assistance will be $2,188,610 to            
  $4,250,322, with an average award of $3,009,032.                                   
                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  In FY 2007, a total of 4 continuation awards were made. In FY 2008, it is          
  estimated that 4 continuation awards will be made.                                 
                                                                                     


1294                                                                           11-08

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Stuart Weiss, Acting Chief, Diversity Branch, Division of Diversity and
  Interdisciplinary Education, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and
  Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Room 9-
  36, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Program
  information and assistance may be obtained by calling (301) 443-5644.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rock Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16,
  Rockville, MD 20857. Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and
  Training Branch: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch:
  (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects funded proposed a range of activities for under-represented targeted
  minority individuals, including high school students; undergraduate college pre-
  professional (medicine, dentistry and pharmacy) students; enrolled professional
  students and faculty. COEs support structured and unstructured summer and
  academic year activities to address the seven legislative purposes. Activities
  include summer academic enrichment programs for undergraduate college
  students; professional school admissions process preparation sessions
  (MCAT/DAT review, etc.); retention services for enrolled professional students
  (i.e., summer pre-matriculation programs, tutorials, personal and career
  counseling; clinical educational experiences; recruitment/retention of basic
  science and clinical faculty; student/faculty research experiences; medical school
  curriculum development; increased library holdings relative to minority health
  issues; and purchase of computer and other equipment (to retain faculty and
  improve professional student performance, etc.).
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Project proposals are evaluated on the basis of: (1) The degree to which the
  applicant arrange to continue the proposed project beyond the federally-funded
  project period; (2) the degree to which the proposed project meets all purposes
  stated in the legislative authorization; (3) the relationships of the objectives of
  the proposed project and the goals that are developed; (4) the administrative and
  managerial ability of the applicant to carry out the project in a cost-effective
  manner; (5) the adequacy of the staff and faculty to carry out the program; (6)
  the soundness of the budget for assuring effective utilization of grant funds and
  the proportion of total program funds which come from nonfederal sources and
  the degree to which they are projected to increase over the grant period; (7) the
  number of individuals who can be expected to benefit from the project; (8) the
  technical merit of the project; and (9) the overall impact the project will have on
  strengthening the schools' capacity to train the targeted minority health
  professionals and increase the supply of minority health professionals available
  to serve minority populations in underserved areas.
93.161 HEALTH PROGRAM FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES
AND DISEASE REGISTRY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE REGISTRY,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
  (CERCLA) of 1980, Public Law 99-499, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 9604(i);
  Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended; Public Law 98-616, 42
  U.S.C. 6939a.
OBJECTIVES:
  To work closely with State, local, and other Federal agencies to reduce or
  eliminate illness, disability, and death resulting from exposure of the public and
  workers to toxic substances at spill and waste disposal sites.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To strengthen State and local environmental health programs. Services may
  include: (1) Health assessments; (2) health effects studies; (3) exposure and
  disease registries; (4) technical assistance; (5) consultation; (6) dissemination of
  technical information; (7) provision of specialized services and assistance,
  including responses to public health emergencies; 8) training State and other
  health professionals in broad areas related to environmental health; and (9)
  research of chemical toxicity.
Applicant Eligibility:
