  States or political subdivisions thereof, to include the District of Columbia,    
  American Samoa, Guam, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the                        
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of             
  Micronesia, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Marshall Island, the      
  Republic of Palau, National organizations, Federally-recognized Indian tribal     
  governments, public and private non-profit universities and colleges.             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  The general public and particularly individuals and families who reside around    
  or near hazardous waste sites.                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State       
  and local governments. For other grantees, costs will be determined by HHS        
  regulations 45 CFR 74, Subpart Q. For-profit organization's costs will be         
  determined in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 48 CFR,         
  Chapter I, Subpart 31.2, "Cost Principals for Contracts and Commercial            
  Organizations."                                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  No preapplication required. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.      
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should        
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process required to be followed in          
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.        
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from the Grants     
  Management Officer, Acquisition and Assistance Branch A, Procurement and          
  Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine        
  Road, Room 3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. This program is subject to the                
  provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local governments. The standard       
  application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR 92 for State and    
  local governments, must be used for this program. This program is subject to      
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110. By formal agreement, the CDC            
  Grants Management Branch acts on behalf of ATSDR on this matter.                  
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The Assistant Administrator, ATSDR has final authority to approve funding of      
  applications. When an application is approved for funding, the Grants             
  Management Officer, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), acting      
  as agent for ATSDR, will prepare a Notice of Grant Award.                         
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact the Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 60 to 90 days.                                                      
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Awards are made for project periods of 1 to 5 years with 12-month budget          
  period. Renewals or continuation awards, with the project period are made on      
  the basis of satisfactory progress and availability of fudns.                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  It is anticipated that awards will be for a 12-month budget period with a         
  proposed project period ranging from one to five years.

Reports:

  Annual performance and financial status reports are required no later than 90     
  days after the end of each budget period. Performance reports may be requested    
  quarterly. Final financial status and performance reports are requested 90 days   
  after the end of each project period.

Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  Detailed and accurate records of travel expenditures, personnel hours and all     
  other costs will be retained for ten years in accordance with EPA's "Superfund    
  Financial Management and Recordkeeping Guidance for Federal Agencies."            
  Such documents may be required to provide the basis of cost recovery actions or   
  other litigation. Additionally, this documentation must be available for audit or 
  verification upon the request of the Inspector General.                           
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-8252-0-1-551.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants and Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $4,168,002; FY 08 $7,482,096;           
  and FY 09 est $8,045,550.                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $130,000 to $300,000; $200,000.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            


                                                                               11-08
  Approximately 14 grantees have been funded and will continue to be funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Toxicological profiles, Federal regulations for interim procedures to petition for
  Public Health Assessments published in August 18, 1992 issue of the 42 CFR
  90, Health Assessments and Health Effects Studies of Hazardous Substances
  Releases and Facilities; Final Rule; Published in February 13, 1990, issue of the
  Status of Health Research Report; Case studies in environmental medicine; and
  ATSDR Annual Report. PHS Policy Statement No. (OASH) 94- 50,000, (Rev.)
  April 1, 1994 is available. Section 106 and subsection 118(e) of the Great Lakes
  Critical Programs Act of 1990 33 U.S.C. 1268(e).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Beth Gardner, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease
  Registry, Office of Financial and Administrative Services, 1600 Clifton Road,
  NE., Mail Stop F-62, Atlanta, GA 30333. Telephone: 770-488-0572. E-mail
  address ctg8@cdc.gov: Programmatic Technical Assistance: Joann Flesner,
  Division of Health Studies, Agency for Toxin Substances, Email address:
  JFlesner@cdc.gov; Phone: 770-488-0739. Grants Management Contact: Mildred
  Garner, Grants Management Officer, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services,
  2920 Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2745, FAX:
  (770) 488-2777.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) A cooperative agreement for educating physicians and other health
  professionals in the areas of environmental health, site characterizations, and
  health assessment; (2) a study to address and recommend effective
  implementation strategies for the integration of environmental medicine into
  medical school curricula; and (3) conference grants on disease prevention, health
  promotion, and information/education projects related to preventing exposure
  and adverse human health effects and diminished quality of life associated with
  exposure to hazardous substances from waste sites, unplanned releases, and
  other sources of pollution present in the environment.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Relevance of the proposal to the objective of this program. (2) Demonstrated
  experience in evaluating human health effects from exposures to hazardous
  substances in the environment through multimedia exposure pathways. (3)
  Training and experience of staff to be assigned to and/or hired for the project.
  (4) Suitability of facilities and equipment available or to be purchased for the
  project. (5) Appropriateness of the requested budget relative to the work
  proposed. (6) Capability of the applicant and its consultants to carry out the
  tasks involved in the project. (7) Soundness and innovation of the proposed
  approach to the range of activities presented in the project. (8) Capability of the
  applicant's administrative structure to foster successful scientific and
  administrative management of the program or study as described in the
  application. (9) Adequacy of the proposed time frame for completion of
  programs or studies.
93.162 NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS LOAN
REPAYMENT PROGRAM
   (NHSC Loan Repayment Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 338B, 42 U.S.C. 254l -1, as amended; Health
  Care Safety Net Amendments of 2002, Title II, Public Law 107-251.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase the supply of primary care physicians, dentists, behavioral and
  mental health professionals, certified nurse midwives, certified family nurse
  practitioners, and physician assistants,and if needed by the National Health
  Service Corps, other health professionals in Health Professional Shortage Areas
  (HPSA) within the United States and it's territories by assisting the repayment of
  qualifying educational loans in return for service to populations located health
  professional shortage areas identified by the Secretary of the Department of
  Health and Human Services.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Awards provide payments of up to $35,000 a year towards participants' qualified
  government and commercial health professions undergraduate and graduate
  education loans during the first 2 years of practice at a selected National Health
  Service Corps (NHSC) Loan Repayment Service Site under a written agreement
  with this program. For a 3rd and 4th subsequent year, payments of up to $35,000
                                                                                  1295
