  a year may be made available under a written agreement, for a 5th subsequent          
  year payments of up to $25,000 a year may be made available under a written           
  agreement, for a 6th subsequent year payments of up to $20,000 a year may be          
  available under a written agreement, and for a 7th subsequent year and beyond,        
  payments of up to $15,000 may be available under a written agreement. Health          
  professions given priority for selection are those identified by communities.         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Individuals are eligible to apply if they have (1) U.S. citizenship; (2) a health     
  professions degree or are in professional practice (they must hold an unrestricted    
  health professions license from the State in which they will be working, and be       
  eligible for selection for a Federal civil service appointment, or hold an            
  appointment as a commissioned officer in the Regular or Reserve Corps of the          
  U.S. Public Health Service); (3) not defaulted on any Federal debt or do not have     
  a court judgment against them; and (4) no existing service obligation.                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Primary care, oral health, and mental and behavioral health professions are           
  eligible for the Loan Repayment Program (LRP). Specific specialties within            
  these professions are selected for LRP awards based on community demand for           
  health services.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued                
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be

  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.         
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                        
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from

  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov website at www.grants.gov to both find        
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be     
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                    
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for Clinicians Recruitement            
  and Service. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final              
  selections for awards.                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  NHSC loan repayment awards are made based on the highest need as determined           
  by descending health professional shortage area scores. Priority will be given to     
  individuals whose training is in a health discipline or specialty determined by       
  the Secretary for Health and Human Services to be needed by the NHSC and              
  who the Secretary determines are committed to service in health professional          
  shortage areas.                                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Contact HRSA at www.hrsa.gov for deadline date(s).                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Approximately 120 Days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  Contract amendments will be considered according to the availability of               
  appropriated funds and eligibility criteria applied to the individual and the site at 
  which that individual is employed.                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  None.                                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Loan repayments for 1 year of obligated service will be made no later than the        
  end of the fiscal year in which the individual completes such year of service.        
Reports:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Audits:                                                                                 
  Not applicable.

                                                                                        
Records:

                                                                                        
  Not applicable.

                                                                                        
Account Identification:

  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $60,019,317; FY 08 $59,182,064; and FY 09 est $56,800,000.                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $5,000 to $50,000; $45,000.                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  Total awards made for FY 07, 1,548. The estimate for FY 08 is 1,564 with              
  approximately 810 expected to be awards to new participants.                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and      
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,           
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as             
  applicable.                                                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Chief, National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Branch, Division of               
  Applications and Awards, Bureau of Clinician Recruitment and Service, Health          
  Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human                 
  Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 8-37, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:               
  (301) 594-4400. Public Information Phone: (1-800) 221-9393.                           


1296                                                                              11-08

Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16,
  Rockville, MD 20857 . Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and
  Training Branch: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch:
  (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.288, National Health Service Corps Scholarship Program; 93.303, Nursing
  Scholarship Program; 93.342, Health Professions Student Loans, Including
  Primary Care Loans/Loans for Disadvantaged Students; 93.364, Nursing Student
  Loans; 93.908, Nursing Education Loan Repayment Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  During FY 07, the program awarded a total of 1,548 contracts to eligible
  clinicians with health professions degrees or licenses.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Priority will be given to applicants who are individuals whose training is in a
  health or specialty profession determined by the Secretary to be needed by
  NHSC.
93.164 INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE EDUCATIONAL LOAN
REPAYMENT
   (IHS Loan Repayment Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Health Care Amendments of 1988, Section 108, Public Law 100-713,
  Public Laws 93-638 and 94-437.
OBJECTIVES:
  To insure that the Indian Health Service (IHS) has an adequate supply of trained
  health professionals for Indian health program facilities by providing for the
  repayment of educational loans for participants who agree (by written contract)
  to serve an applicable period of time at a facility IHS has designated as a loan
  repayment priority site or in a designated specialty at a site with an appropriate
  position.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This program will provide repayment of loans incurred for health professions
  educational expenses in exchange for service in a designated loan repayment
  priority site. Recipients must agree by written contract to serve an applicable
  period of time in such a site; individuals who have conflicting service
  obligations may not participate in this program until those obligations are
  satisfied. The minimum period of participation is 2 years. Maximum payment to
  a program participant is $20,000 per year and an additional 20 percent of the
  award amount for tax liability.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible individuals must be enrolled: (1) In a course of study or program in an
  accredited institution, as determined by the Secretary, within any State and be
  scheduled to complete such course of study in the same year such as individual
  applies to participate in such program; (2) in an approved graduate training
  program in a health profession; (3) have a degree in health profession and a
  license to practice a health profession; (4) be eligible for, or hold, an
  appointment as a commissioned officer in the Regular or Reserve Corps of the
  Public Health Service (PHS); (5) be eligible for selection for civilian service in
  the Regular or Reserve Corps of the PHS; (6) meet the professional standards for
  civil service employment in the IHS; (7) be employed with an Indian health
  program funded under Public Law 93-638, Indian Self-Determination, Title V of
  Public Law 94-437 and its amendments or the Buy Indian Act (25 U.S.C. 47);
  (8) submit an application to participate in the IHS Loan Repayment Program;
  and (9) sign and submit to the Secretary for Health and Human Services at the
  time of such application, a written contract agreeing to accept loan repayment of
  health professions educational loans and to serve for an applicable period of
  service at loan repayment priority site as determined by the Secretary. The term
  "State" is defined in Section 331 (i)(4) of the PHS Act.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Health professionals who have Government (Federal, State, local) and
  commercial unpaid educational loans will benefit from this program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must submit documentation of the following, as appropriate: (1) A
  transcript showing final year of study and full-time status; (2) a copy of a health
  professions degree; (3) a copy of health professions license; (4) a copy of
  transcript showing completion of graduate education; and (5) a copy of all loan
  documentation.
Preapplication Coordination:
