  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants should request an application package, complete the required            
  information, and return it to the Indian Health Service (IHS) Headquarters for     
  review. (See Headquarters Office section below for address.) Once a completed      
  application packet is received, it will be reviewed and the determination of       
  award recipients will be made based upon merit. Award will be made on award        
  dates published in the Federal Register.                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Upon determination of who will receive an award, that individual will be

  notified in writing by the program. The individual will in turn notify the program

  in writing of his/her acceptance. Awards will be contingent upon the score that

                                                                                     
  an eligible Loan Repayment Program site receives and score is applied to the       
  individual matched to that site. Upon arriving at his/her duty station, participant
  must submit proof of employment to the IHS Loan Repayment Program Office.

  Individuals can be matched to an IHS tribal, urban, or buy Indian site by an IHS   
  area recruiter or the equivalent. Applicants needing to match to an IHS priority   
  site should work with an IHS recruiter in the service area of their choice. When   
  an award occurs, the Secretary will sign the contract and the individual will      
  receive final notification of their award and a copy of their signed contract.     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact Headquarters Office for application deadlines.                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 60 days.                                                             
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  If a program recipient satisfactorily completes his/her initial service and        
  continues to have remaining eligible debt, he/she may extend his/her contract on   
  a single-year basis, provided that funds are available and the participant         
  continues to meet the eligibility requirements of the program. A recipient         
  wishing to extend his/her contract must submit a formal request for extension      
  and sign a new 1-year contract.                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Payments will be made to the individuals of the program on an annual basis.        
Reports:                                                                             
  Program participants must be certified annually as performing at an eligible site

                                                                                     
  in an eligible full-time position.

                                                                                     
Audits:

                                                                                     
  Not applicable.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  The IHS will maintain records of applicants and participants for 3 years after

                                                                                     
  information of expenditure reports are completed.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  75-0390-0-1-551.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $16,923,500; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not             
  reported.                                                                          
                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $3,000 to $48,000 for a 2-year obligation; $43,315.                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal year 2005, 293 new and 236 continuing loan repayment awards were         
  approved. In fiscal years 2006, as estimated 245 new and 240 continuing loan       
  repayment awards will be approved; and in fiscal year 2007, an estimated 230       
  new and 220 continuing loan repayment awards will be approved.                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Authorization is contained in Public Law 100-713, as amended by Public Law         
  102-573; Indian Health Service Educational Loan Repayment Program                  
  Information Bulletin; Notice of Availability of Funds.                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for IHS Area Offices.                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Program Contact: Ms. Jackie Sanitago, Chief, Loan Repayment Program, Indian        
  Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, Suite 120, Rockville, MD 20852.               
  Telephone: (301) 443-3396. Grants Management Contact: Ms. Kimberly                 
  Pendleton, Senior Grants Management Officer, Division of Grants Operations,        
  Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, TMP, Suite 360, Rockville, MD          
  20852. Telephone: (301) 443-5204. Use the same number for FTS.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ihs.gov .                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.162, National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program.                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Physicians, nurses, mental health, and other health professionals who have         
  agreed to provide full-time clinical services at an appropriate site for an        
  applicable period of time (2 years) in return for repayment of their health        
  profession education loans.                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The IHS defined "Health Profession" to mean family medicine, internal              


                                                                                11-08
  medicine, pediatrics, geriatric medicine, obstetrics and gynecology, podiatric
  medicine, nursing, public health nursing, dentistry, psychiatry, osteopathy,
  optometry, pharmacy, psychology, public health, social work, marriage and
  family therapy, chiropractic medicine, environmental health and engineering,
  and allied professions. Other factors that will be employed to determine which
  applicant is selected for awards include: (a) An applicant's length of current
  employment in the IHS, tribal or urban program; (b) availability for service
  earlier than other applicants (first come, first served); and (c) date the completed
  application was received.
93.165 GRANTS TO STATES FOR LOAN REPAYMENT
PROGRAM
   (State Loan Repayment Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title III, Section 3381, 42 U.S.C. 254 q-1.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase the availability of primary health care in health professional shortage
  areas (HPSAs) by assisting States in operating programs for the repayment of
  educational loans of health professionals in return for their practice in HPSAs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  State programs are to be similar to 93.162, the National Health Service Corps
  Loan Repayment Program. Similar provisions include: (1) Applicants for State
  programs must have completed a course of study required to practice as one of
  the following health care professionals: allopathic or osteopathic physician,
  dentist, nurse midwife, nurse practitioner, physician assistant, clinical
  psychologist, clinical social worker, psychiatric nurse specialist, marriage and
  family therapist, licensed professional counselor or dental hygienist; and (2)
  participants must provide full-time clinical service for a minimum of two years
  in a public or non-profit entity located in a federally designated health
  professional shortage area. The Federal share of the support for State programs
  cannot exceed 50 percent of the contract costs. The State's 50 percent share must
  be spent for repayment of loans and the State must absorb program
  administrative costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The term "State" means each of the fifty States. Any State is eligible to apply for
  a grant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State governments will benefit by securing the services of health professionals
  for health professional shortage areas in States. This program will also benefit
  health professions practitioners whose loans would be repaid for service in
  HPSAs under the State Loan Repayment Program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office of the
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Grant applications will be given an objective review. Final award decisions will
  be made by the Director of the Bureau of Health Professions.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Subsequent funding depends upon the availability of funds and program
  performance. Renewals are funded through a competitive process each year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of any program may not exceed 50 percent of the cost of loan
                                                                                    1297
