  repayment contracts made to eligible providers. The Federal share must be used       
  to repay the government and commercial loans of health professionals for             
  tuition, educational expenses and living expenses described in Section               
  338B(g)(1) of the Public Health Service Act. Other Federal funds cannot be used      
  for the non-federal cost participation. No portion of the Federal share shall be     
  used to pay for administrative or management costs of any State Loan                 
  Repayment Program. The non-federal share is to be issued for the repayment of        
  loans. States must assume administrative costs.                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  A grant award is for 1 year. Applicants may propose a project period of up to 3      
  years. States are asked to commit the full amount of funding for their loan          
  repayment awards to practitioners in the current fiscal year to avoid out-year       
  commitments for additional Federal funds.                                            
Reports:                                                                               
  Recipient States must submit a biannual Uniform Progress Report, and final           
  progress report along with an annual financial report in the format approved         
  under OMB Circular No. 0915-0004.                                                    
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,

  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of          
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going             
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely    
  resolved.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $6,965,172; FY 08 est $7,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  (FY 2007) $100,000 to $1,000,000; $302,834 average.                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In FY 07, 24 competing awards were made. It is expected that approximately 24        
  continuation awards will be made in FY 08.                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and     
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,          
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as            
  applicable.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Elsie Quinones, Acting Chief, Geriatrics and Public Health Branch, Division of       
  Diversity and Interdisciplinary Education, Bureau of Health Professions, Health      
  Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human                
  Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 9-36, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:              
  301-443-5244 and Email equinones@hrsa.gov.                                           
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                 
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                 
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.             
  Health Services Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training             
  Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch:              
  Telephone: (301) 443-3288.                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  93.162, National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program; 93.364,                
  Nursing Student Loans; 93.908, Nursing Education Loan Repayment Program.             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  State Loan Repayment Program (SLRP) grants resulted in loan repayment                
  contracts with 382 providers at Health Professional Shortage Area sites (HPSAs)      
  in FY 06.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  For new and competing continuation grants the following criteria will be used to     
  evaluate State applications to determine which States are to be supported under      
  this notice: (a) The extent of the State's need for health professionals consistent  
  with the health professions and specialties identified later in this notice; (b) the 
  extent to which special consideration will be extended to federally designated       
  HPSAs with large minority populations; (c) the number and type of providers the      
  State proposes to support through this program; (d) the appropriateness of the       
  proposed placements of State LRP recipients (e.g., consistency and coordination      
  with State-based plans to improve access to primary health services for the          
  underserved communities and individuals); (e) the appropriateness of the             
  qualifications, the administrative, and managerial ability of the staff to           
  implement the proposed project; (f) the suitability of the State's approach and the  


1298                                                                             11-08

  degree to which the plan of a State is coordinated with Federal, State, and other
  programs for meeting the State's health professional needs and resources,
  including mechanisms for ongoing evaluation of the program's activities; (g) the
  source and plans for the use of the nonfederal match (the degree to which the
  nonfederal match exceeds the minimum requirements or has increased over time
  and the amount of the match relative to the needs and resources of the State); (h)
  for competing continuation applicants only, the grantee's progress in achieving
  stated goals and objectives for the previous year's grant; this includes a progress
  report on the impact the State LRP placements have had on the State's short-term
  and long-term professional needs: (i) an assessment of the reasons for initial
  breaches by health professionals of repayment contracts; and (j) the grantee's
  history of compliance with reporting requirements. Noncompeting continuation
  applications will be evaluated on the grantee's progress in achieving stated goals
  and objectives for the previous year's grant; this includes a progress report on the
  impact the State LRP placements have had on the State's short-term and long-
  term professional needs: (i) and assessment of the reasons for initial breaches by
  health professionals of repayment contracts; and (ii) the grantee's history of
  compliance with reporting requirements.
93.172 HUMAN GENOME RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301, 461 and 487, as amended; Public Laws
  78-410 and 99-158, 42 U.S.C. 241, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 285k; 42 U.S.C.
  288; Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992,
  Public Law 102-564.
OBJECTIVES:
  To obtain genetic maps, physical maps, and determine the deoxyribonucleic acid
  (DNA) sequences of the genomes of humans and model organisms to be used as
  resources in biomedical research, medicine, and biotechnology. Small Business
  Innovation Research (SBIR) program: To expand and improve the SBIR
  program; to increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived
  from Federal research and development; to increase small business participation
  in Federal research and development; and to foster and encourage participation
  of socially and economically disadvantaged small business concerns and
  women-owned small business concerns in technological innovation. Small
  Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program: To stimulate and foster
  scientific and technological innovation through cooperative research and
  development carried out between small business concerns and research
  institutions; to foster technology transfer between small business concerns and
  research institutions; to increase private sector commercialization of innovations
  derived from Federal research and development; and to foster and encourage
  participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small business
  concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological
  innovation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The research project grant is awarded to an eligible institution in the name of a
  principal investigator for a discrete project or group of related projects
  representing the investigator's interest and competence. Funds may be used for
  salaries and wages, equipment, supplies, travel and other costs required to carry
  out the research project. National Research Service Awards are made directly to
  individuals for research training in disciplines supporting the research areas. In
  addition, grants may be made to institutions to enable them to select individuals
  for National Research Service Awards. Each individual who receives a National
  Research Service Award is responsible for certain service and payback
  provisions. Responsibilities of grantees and restrictions on use of funds are set
  forth in the Public Health Service policy statement on grants for research
  projects, which is available on request from the Division of Extramural Outreach
  and Information Resources, Office of Extramural Research, National Institutes
  of Health (NIH), 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 6207, MSC 7910, Bethesda, MD
  20892-7910. Telephone: (301) 435-0714. Fax (301) 480- 0525. E-mail:
  asknih.od.nih.gov. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program: SBIR
  Phase I grants (of approximately 6 months' duration) are to establish the
  technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a
  commercial product or process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of
  research initiated in Phase I and which are likely to result in commercial
  products or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to apply for Phase II
  support. STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine the
  scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed
  cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase II funding
  is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical
  merit and commercial potential of Phase II application.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Research Projects: Awards can be made to any public or private, for-profit or
  nonprofit university, college, hospital, laboratory, or other institution, including
