  State and local units of government, qualifying small businesses (through the        
  Small Business Innovation Research/STTR Programs, and to individuals. To be          
  eligible for funding, a proposal must be approved for scientific merit and           
  program relevance by a scientific review committee and a national advisory           
  council. SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small businesses (entities      
  that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the        
  field in which research is proposed, and have no more than 500 employees).           
  Primary employment (more than one- half time) of the principal investigator          
  must be with the small business at the time of award and during the conduct of       
  the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must be             
  performed in the U.S. or its territories. To be eligible for funding, an SBIR grant  
  application must be approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a         
  scientific review group and a national advisory council. STTR grants can be          
  awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are                  
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in        
  which research is proposed and have no more than 500 employees) which                
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development. At    
  least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business concern     
  and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and Phase II,   
  the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for   
  funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit and program       
  relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council.              
  Nonfederal public and private domestic organizations may apply for an                
  Institutional National Research Service Award. Individual National Research          
  Service awardees must be nominated and sponsored by a public or nonprofit            
  private institution having staff and facilities appropriate to the proposed research 
  training program. All awardees must be citizens or have been admitted to the         
  United States for permanent residence. Predoctoral awardees must have                
  completed the baccalaureate degree, and postdoctoral awardees must have a            
  professional or scientific degree (M.D., Ph.D., D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., E.Eng., or      
  equivalent domestic or foreign degree). Applicants to the Small Business             
  Innovation Research/STTR Programs must meet special requirements for small           
  businesses, as defined by the Small Business Administration.                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in         
  biomedical research.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Each applicant for a research project must present a research plan and furnish       
  evidence that scientific competence, facilities, equipment, and supplies are         
  appropriate to carry out the plan. Use grant application form PHS-398 (Rev.          
  May 1995) provided by, the Division of Extramural Outreach and Information           
  Resources, Office of Extramural Research, National Institutes of Health,             
  Bethesda, MD 20892. For applicants for National Research Service Awards, the         
  academic record, research experience, citizenship, institutional sponsorship, and    
  the proposed area and plan of training must be included in the application. The      
  applicant institution must show the objectives, methodology, and resources for       
  the research training program, the qualifications and experience of directing        
  staff, the criteria to be used in selecting individuals for the award, and a detailed
  budget and justification for the grant funds requested. Costs will be determined     
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.            
  For-profit organizations, costs are determined in accordance with 48 CFR,            
  Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other grantees, costs       
  will be determined in accordance with HHS Regulation 45 CFR 74 Subpart Q.            
  For SBIR and STTR grants, applicant organization (small business concern)            
  must present in a research plan an idea that has potential for commercialization     
  and furnish evidence that scientific competence, experimental methods,               
  facilities, equipment, and funds requested are appropriate to carry out the plan.    
  Grant forms PHS 6246-1 and 6246-2 are used to apply for Phase I and Phase II         
  awards, respectively, or SBIR and STTR programs.                                     
                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application forms and information concerning the area of science being               
  supported may be obtained from the Division of Extramural Outreach and               
  Information, National Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive, MSC 7910,          
  Bethesda, MD 20892-7910, Telephone (301) 435-0714, e-mail:                           
  ASKNIH@odrockml.od.nih.gov. Complete the application and return it to the            
                                                                                       
  Center for Scientific Review, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892

                                                                                       
  for assessment by a scientific review committee. The standard application forms,

                                                                                       
  as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local

                                                                                       
  governments, must be used for this program. This program is subject to the

                                                                                       
  provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local governments and OMB

                                                                                       
  Circular No. A-110, "Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher

                                                                                       
  Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations", as appropriate. The

                                                                                       
  SBIR and STTR Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained

                                                                                       
  electronically through the NIH "Small business Funding Opportunities"

                                                                                       
  homepage at www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World Wide Web. A

                                                                                       
  limited number of hard copies of these publications are produced. Subject to

                                                                                       
  availability, they may be obtained by contacting the NIH support services

                                                                                       
  contractor: phone (301) 206-9385; fax: (301) 206-9722; e- mail:

                                                                                  11-08
  a2y@cu.nih.gov . The Solicitations include submission procedures, review
  considerations, and grant application or contract proposal forms. Completed
  SBIR and STTR grant applications should be submitted to the Center for
  Scientific Review, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1040 - MSC 7710, Bethesda,
  MD 20892-7710.
Award Procedure:
  All accepted applications for project grants and institutional National Research
  Service Awards are reviewed for scientific merit by an appropriate initial review
  group and by the National Advisory Council for Human Genome Research
  (NACHGR). (Individual NRSA applications are not reviewed by council.) All
  approved applications compete for available funds on the basis of scientific
  merit and program emphasis. Awards are issued throughout the year. All
  accepted SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for scientific and technical
  merit by an appropriate scientific peer review panel and by a national advisory
  council or board. All applications receiving a priority score ranging from the
  best (100) to worst (500) compete for the available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds
  on the basis of scientific and technical merit (which includes the potential of the
  proposed research for commercial application), program relevance, and program
  balance among the areas of research.
Deadlines:
  New Research Projects: February 1, June 1, and October 1. Renewals: March 1,
  July 1, and November 1. Individual NRSA: April 5, August 5, and December 10.
  Institutional NRSA: January 10, May 10, and September 10. SBIR/STTR
  Applications: April 1, August 1, and December 1. SIP: Contact Headquarters
  Office.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Project Grants: About 9 months. SBIR/STTR: About 7-1/2 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects
  of the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available
  on the NIH home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html.
Renewals:
  Renewal grants are competitively awarded.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  All awards are made for at least 1 year. Additional support may be available for
  up to 4 more years depending upon the recommendations of the scientific review
  group, the National Advisory Council for Human Genome Research, successful
  annual performance, and availability of funds. SBIR: Normally, Phase I awards
  are for 6 months; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years. STTR: Normally,
  Phase I awards are for 1 year; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years.
Reports:
  Annual progress and financial status reports for continuing projects and final
  reports on all projects upon conclusion are required. Recipients of National
  Research Service Awards are required to file termination reports to ascertain
  compliance with the service and payback provisions.
Audits:
  "In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133." In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.
Records:
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the
  day on which the grantee submits the last expenditure report for the report
  period.
Account Identification:
  75-0891-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Research Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est
  not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Research Project Grants: $7,148 to $9,587,489; $610,048.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  NHGRI manages a broad-based research program directed towards the
  development of a resource, consisting of genetic maps, physical maps, and DNA
  sequence information of the human genome and the genomes of a number of
  other organisms, to be used in biomedical research, medicine, and
  biotechnology. A component of the program also addresses the ethical, legal,
  and social implications of the application of new genetics technology.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  42 CFR 52; 42 CFR 66; 45 CFR 74; 45 CFR 92; NIH Extramural Programs
  brochure and other miscellaneous program literature are available from
  Headquarters Office. Grants will be available under the authority of and
  administered in accordance with the PHS Grants Policy Statement and Federal
                                                                                  1299
