  regulations at 42 CFR 52 and 42 USC 241; Omnibus Solicitation of the Public          
  Health Service for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant and               
  Cooperative Agreement Applications. Omnibus Solicitation of the National             
  Institutes of Health for Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Grant             
  applications.                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Program Contact: National Human Genome Research Institute, National                  
  Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human          
  Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Program Contacts: Dr. Mark Guyer - Telephone:          
  (301) 496-7531 or Dr. Bettie Graham - Telephone: (301) 496-7531. (301) 496-          
  7531. Ethical, Legal, and Social Implications Program Contact: Ms. Elizabeth         
  Thomson Telephone: (301) 402- 4997. SBIR Contact: Dr. Bettie Graham.                 
  Telephone: (301) 496-7531. Grants Management Contact: Ms. Cheryl Chick,              
  Grants Management Officer, National Human Genome Research Institute,                 
  National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and       
  Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 402-0733. Use the               
  same numbers for FTS.                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.nih.gov.                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  93.862, Genetics and Developmental Biology Research and Research Training.           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  (1) "Implications of Haplotype Structure in the Human Genome"; (2) "Large            
  Scale Sequence and Analysis of Genomes" (3) "Detecting Human Functional              
  Sequences with Microarrays"; (4) "Microscale Instrument Development for              
  Genomic Analysis"; (5) "Clinical Use of Research Genetic Tests in Arrhythmia";       
  and (6) "Cross-species Gene Finding and Annotation".                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The           
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;  
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the          
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the          
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed project; and (5) the         
  relevance and importance to announced program objectives. The following              
  criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical merit of           
  SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical merit of       
  the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal              
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological innovation    
  of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research for             
  commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the     
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7)         
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for        
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or          
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications        
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the      
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and     
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;      
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and 
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance   
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for             
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget request for the         
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research       
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the      
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)             
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.              
                                                                                       
93.173 RESEARCH RELATED TO DEAFNESS AND                                                
                                                                                       
COMMUNICATION DISORDERS

                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                              
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301, 464 A-F, and 487, as amended; 42            
  U.S.C. 241, 285m, 285m-3, and 288; Public Law 100-553; 102 Stat. 2769;               
  Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992, Public              
  Law 102-564.                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To investigate solutions to problems directly relevant to individuals with           
  deafness or disorders of human communication in the areas of hearing, balance,       
  smell, taste, voice, speech, and language. The National Institute on Deafness and    
  Other Communication Disorders (NIDCD) supports research including                    
  investigation into the etiology, pathology, detection, treatment, and prevention of  
  disorders of hearing and other communication processes, primarily through the        
  support of basic and applied research in anatomy, audiology, biochemistry,           
  bioengineering, epidemiology, genetics, immunology, microbiology, molecular          
  biology, the neurosciences, otolaryngology, psychology, pharmacology,                
  physiology, psychophysics, speech-language pathology, and other scientific           
1300                                                                             11-08

  disciplines. The NIDCD supports: (1) Research into the evaluation of techniques
  and devices used in diagnosis, treatment, rehabilitation, and prevention of
  disorders of hearing and other communication processes; (2) research into
  prevention and early detection and diagnosis of hearing loss and speech, voice,
  and language disturbances and research into preventing the effects of such
  disorders on language and learning by means of appropriate referral and
  rehabilitation; (3) research into the detection, treatment, and prevention of
  disorders of hearing and other communication processes in the elderly
  population and its rehabilitation to ensure continued effective communication
  skills; and (4) research to expand knowledge of the effects of environmental
  agents that influence hearing or other communication processes. Small Business
  Innovation Research (SBIR) program: To increase private sector
  commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; to encourage small business participation in Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in technological innovation. Small Business Technology
  Transfer (STTR) program: To stimulate and foster scientific and technological
  innovation through cooperative research and development carried out between
  small business concerns and research institutions; to foster technology transfer
  between small business concerns and research institutions; to increase private
  sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in technological innovation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Project Grants and Centers Grants may be used to provide salaries, equipment,
  supplies, travel, and other expenses for research. The grantee institution is
  obliged to expend grant funds prudently for the purposes as stated in the
  application and award document. Some National Research Service Awards
  (NRSAs) are made directly to individuals for research training in specified
  biomedical and behavioral research areas. Other training grants are made to
  institutions to enable them to make NRSAs to individuals selected by them.
  Each postdoctoral individual who receives an NRSA may be obligated, upon
  termination of the award, to comply with certain service and payback provisions.
  Mentored and unmentored career development awards are made to enhance the
  independent research capability of highly promising individuals during the
  formative stages of their careers. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)
  Program: Phase I grants (of approximately 6 months duration) are to establish
  the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to
  a commercial product or process. SBIR Phase II grants are for the continuation
  of the research efforts initiated in Phase I and that are likely to result in
  commercial products or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to apply
  for Phase II support. STTR Phase I grant (normally of 1-year duration) are to
  determine the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the
  proposed cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase
  II funding is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and
  technical merit and commercial potential of Phase II application. Grant funds
  may be expended only for the purpose stated in the application and award
  document.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Project Grants and Centers Grants: Any public, private, nonprofit, or for-profit
  institution is eligible to apply. For-profit institutions are not eligible for
  institutional National Research Service Awards. All proposals are reviewed for
  scientific merit, for evaluation of the qualifications of the investigators, for
  adequacy of the research and/or research training environment and for
  significance of the problem. Approved proposals compete for available funds.
  Awardees of almost all Research Career Development Programs must be citizens
  or have been admitted to the United States for permanent residence. Candidates
  must be nominated for the program by a nonfederal public or private nonprofit
  institution located in the United States, its possessions or Territories. To be
  eligible, postdoctoral NRSA trainees and fellows must have a professional or
  scientific doctoral degree (M.D., Ph.D., D.D.S., D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., D.Eng., or
  equivalent domestic or foreign degree). SBIR grants can be awarded only to
  domestic small businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated
  for profit, are not dominant in the field in which research is proposed, and have
  no more than 500 employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of
  the principal investigator must be with the small business at the time of award
  and during the conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the
  research must be performed in the United States or its possessions. To be eligible
  for funding, an SBIR grant application must be approved for scientific merit and
  program relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council.
  STTR grants can be awarded only to domestic small business concerns which
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development. At
  least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business concern
  and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and Phase II,
  the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for
  funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit and program
