  relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council.           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Health professionals, graduate students, health professional students, scientists,
  physicians, and other health and allied health professionals.                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Project Grants are awarded to an institution in the name of an individual         
  investigator. Centers Grants are also awarded to an institution in the name of an 
  investigator designated as the Program Director. Persons qualified to carry out   
  research related to the NIDCD grant programs described above may apply for        
  funds through their institution to support their investigations. Career Program   
  training must be conducted under the direction of a competent sponsor. A          
  candidate for a Career Award must have an earned M.D., Ph.D. or equivalent        
  degree and have had prior postdoctoral training or research experience. National  
  Research Service Awards: (1) Individual NRSA Fellowship Awards for                
  predoctoral and postdoctoral training: The candidate's academic record, research  
  experience, citizenship, institutional sponsorship, and the proposed area and     
  plan of training must be included in the application. (2) Institutional Training  
  Grants for predoctoral and postdoctoral training: The applicant institution must  
  show the objectives, design and resources for the research training program; the  
  qualifications and experience of directing staff; the criteria to be used in      
  selecting individuals for stipend support; and a detailed budget and justification
  for the amount of grant funds requested. Costs will be determined in accordance   
  with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments. For-profit            
  organizations' costs are determined in accordance with 48 CFR, Subpart 31.2 of    
  the Federal Acquisition Regulation. For other grantees, costs will be determined  
  in accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and       
  STTR grants, the applicant organization (small business concern) must present     
  in a research plan an idea that has potential for commercialization and furnish   
  evidence that scientific competence, experimental methods, facilities,            
  equipment, and funds requested are appropriate to carry out the plan. Grant       
  form SF 424 (R&R) is used to apply for SBIR Phase I and Phase II.                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Applications must have a Dun and Bradstreet (D&B) Data Universal Numbering        
  System (DUNS) number as the Universal Identifier when applying for Federal        
  grants or cooperative agreements. The DUNS number can be obtained by calling      
  (866) 705-5711 or through the web site at: http://www.dunandbradstreet.com.       
  The NIH is converting to SF424 (R&R) Research and Related forms and               
  electronic submission through Grants.gov for the submission of all grant          
  applications. Visit http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt for information and      
  updates on this new process and www.nidcd.nih.gov/funding/foa to identify         
  funding opportunity announcements relevant to NIDCD. Research Fellowships:        
  Prior to formal application, a candidate must be accepted at an institution as a  
  doctoral student or postdoctoral fellow and have a sponsor who will supervise     
  the training. Fellows may be sponsored by a (domestic or foreign) nonprofit       
  institution. Application forms and information concerning current areas being     
  supported under the Research Fellowship Award Program should be obtained          
  from the Office of Research Manpower, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,    
  MD 20892. Application forms for Individual or Institutional NRSAs and             
  information concerning the areas of science being supported may be obtained       
  from the Office of Research Manpower, Center for Scientific Review, National      
  Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, and should be submitted to the same     
  address. This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for State   
  and local governments, and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit                   
  organizations. SBIR and STTR Grant Solicitations and SBIR Contract                
  Solicitation may be obtained electronically through the NIH's "Small Business     
  Funding Opportunities" home page http://www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm.      
  For further assistance in all above areas, contact GrantsInfo, Telephone (301)    
  435-0714, Email: GrantsInfo@nih.gov.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Research Grant and Training Program applications are reviewed initially by        
  technical panels composed of scientific authorities, and by the National          
  Deafness and Other Communication Disorders Advisory Council composed of           
  18 leaders in medicine, science, education, and public affairs. Approved          
  applications will compete on a merit basis for available funds. Formal award      
  notices are transmitted to the grantee or awardee. All accepted SBIR/STTR         
  applications are evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate   
  scientific peer review panel and by a national advisory council. All applications 
  receiving a priority score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on     
  the basis of scientific and technical merit and commercial potential of the       
  proposed research, program relevance, and program balance among the areas of      
  research.                                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                          
  NIH has revised its standard receipt dates as follows. Applications for Requests  
  for Applications (RFAs) and Program Announcements (PAs, PARs, PASs) with          
  special receipt dates continue to be due on the specified dates listed in the FOA.
  For an application to be considered on time it must be received by Grants.gov by  
  5 p.m. local time for the applicant institution. For more information and         
  standard dates, see http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-07-   


                                                                               11-08
  053.html.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Research Grants and Centers Grants: Approximately 6 to 9 months. Career
  Program: From 6 to 9 months. SBIR/STTR applications: About 7-1/2 months.
  Institutional Training Grants: From 10 to 12 months. Individual Fellowships:
  From 4 to 6 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects
  of the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available
  at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not97-232.htm. Final decisions
  on unresolved appeals are made with the advice of the National Deafness and
  Other Communication Disorders Advisory Council.
Renewals:
  By application and review in the same manner as new applications. Research
  career awards are not renewable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Research Grant awards are made for a 12-month period with recommendation of
  up to 4 years of additional support. Center Grant awards support may be for a
  period not to exceed 5 years. Career development awards provide support for up
  to 5 years. NRSA fellowship and traineeship awards are usually for a 12-month
  period, with recommendation of additional support of no more than 5 years for
  predoctoral training and no more than 3 years for postdoctoral training. SBIR
  Phase I awards are generally for 6 months; Phase II awards normally may not
  exceed 2 years. STTR Phase I awards are generally for 1 year; Phase II awards
  normally may not exceed 2 years.
Reports:
  Research Grants, Centers Grants, and Career Development Awards: Annual and
  final progress reports, including a description of results, positive and negative,
  and a list of any publications. A financial status report must be submitted within
  90 days after the close of each project period for Research and Career
  Development Grants for which an award has been issued. NRSA Ruth L.
  Kirschstein Fellowships Awards and Institutional Training Grant Awards:
  Awardee submits annual progress report. Termination notice, Form PHS 416-7,
  must be submitted upon completion of training for each trainee. Reports are
  required after termination of National Research Service Awards to ascertain
  compliance with the service and payback provisions. A financial status report
  must be submitted within 90 days after the close of each budget period for
  Centers Grants and for Institutional Training Grants.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June
  24, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. For nongovernmental grant recipients, audits are to be
  carried out in accordance with the provisions set forth in OMB Circular No. A-
  133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspection and
  audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.
Records:
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report
  period.
Account Identification:
  75-0890-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est $392,937,000; FY 08 est $394,138,000; FY 09 est $395,047,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $75,000 to $1,750,000; $313,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  For fiscal year 2007, 1,849 applications were submitted and 1,168 were funded.
  For fiscal year 2008, an estimated 1,904 applications are expected to be
  submitted and an estimated 1,149 are expected to be funded. For fiscal year
  2009, an estimated 1,961 applications are expected to be submitted and an
  estimated 1,142 are expected to be funded. The Institute now supports a wide
  variety of basic and applied research studies concerning balance control,
  hearing, the senses of smell and taste, as well as speech, voice, and language.
  Encouraging progress has been made in each of these areas and is expected to
  continue. Clinical topics under investigation include vertigo; mild, moderate and
  profound hearing impairment; the design and efficacy of hearing aids and
  cochlear implants; aphasia; specific language impairment; disorders of taste and
  smell; stuttering, and voice disorders.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Project Grants and Centers Grants: 42 CFR 52 or 52a; 42 CFR 66; 45 CFR 74;
  45 CFR 92; Grants will be available under the authority of and administered in
  accordance with the NIH Grants Policy Statement and Federal regulations at 42
  CFR 52 and 42 USC 241; Omnibus Solicitation of the Public Health Service for
                                                                                 1301
