  Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant and Cooperative Agreement            
  Applications. Omnibus Solicitation of the National Institutes of Health for Small    
  Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Grant Applications.                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Program Contact: Dr. Judith A. Cooper, National Institute on Deafness and            
  Other Communication Disorders, National Institutes of Health, Executive Plaza        
  South, Room 400-C, Bethesda, MD 20892-7180. Telephone: (301) 496-5061.               
  Grants Management Contact: Mr. Christopher Myers, National Institute on              
  Deafness and Other Communication Disorders, National Institutes of Health,           
  Executive Plaza South, Room 400-B, Bethesda, MD 20892; Telephone: (301)              
  402-0909.                                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.nidcd.nih.gov/.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Spatial processing in auditory cortex; electrophysiology of olfactory                
  discrimination; threshold determination with auditory brainstem response;            
  molecular approaches for developmental and infectious aspects of hearing;            
  encoding of vocal signals in the auditory system; taste transduction; physiology     
  of the vestibular system; objective assessment of vocal hyperfunction;               
  developmental trends of early childhood stuttering; structure and acquisition of     
  American Sign Language; treatment for adult aphasia; and characterization of         
  Specific Language Impairment.                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The major elements in evaluating applications include assessments of: (1) The        
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;  
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the          
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the          
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed project; (5) the necessity   
  of budget components requested in relation to the proposed project; (6) the          
  relevance and importance to announced program objectives; (7) innovation; (8)        
  risk to human subjects, including inclusion of minorities and children, and          
  animal protection. The following criteria will be used in considering the            
  scientific and technical merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The      
  soundness and technical merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of    
  the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the      
  technological innovation of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the          
  proposed research for commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the         
  budget requested; (6) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research    
  environment; and (7) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the      
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)             
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II     
  grant applications will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The       
  degree to which the Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2)    
  the scientific and technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the        
  Phase II objectives; (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator,  
  supporting staff, and consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or 
  societal importance of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed      
  research for commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget            
  requested for the work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities  
  and research environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances       
  detailing the proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects,          
  and/or (b) protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the                
  environment.                                                                         
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.178 NURSING WORKFORCE DIVERSITY                                                     
   (Disadvantaged Assistance)                                                          
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, Title VIII, Section 821, 42 U.S.C. 296m, as amended;      
  Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To increase nursing education opportunities for individuals who are from             
  disadvantaged backgrounds (including racial and ethnic minorities under-             
  represented among registered nurses) by providing student stipends and               
  scholarships, pre-entry preparation and retention activities. To support projects    
  focused on creating registered nurses.                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds may be used for salaries of personnel specifically employed for the            
  project; consultant fees; supplies and equipment necessary to conduct the            
  project; essential travel expenses and student stipends or scholarships; and other   


1302                                                                             11-08

  expenses related to the project. Restricted Uses: Indirect costs are allowed for
  administrative costs incurred as a result of the project, limited to 8 percent of
  direct costs exclusive of equipment and tuition and fees. Stipends are $250 per
  month to eligible full-time project students. The maximum annual (12-month)
  amount for stipends is $3000 per student. Scholarships are limited to a
  maximum of $7,000 per student per year for upper division nursing students.
  The maximum amount that can be requested for scholarships in a grant is
  $40,000 per year.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are schools of nursing, health care facilities, or a partnership
  of such a school and a health care facility, nursing centers, academic health
  centers, State or local governments, an Indian Tribe or Tribal organization, other
  public or private non-profit entities including faith-based and community
  organizations, and for-profit entities capable of carrying out the legislative
  purpose. Schools of nursing must be accredited by the National League for
  Nursing Accrediting Commission, Inc. (NLNAC), the Commission on Collegiate
  Nursing Education (CCNE) or one of the State Agencies deem appropriate by
  the U.S. Department of Education to be eligible applicants.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Accredited public and nonprofit private schools of nursing and other public or
  nonprofit private entities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 6 months after receipt of applications.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Competing continuation applications may be submitted for continuance of a
  grant beyond the initial project period. A competing continuation application
  shall be submitted during the beginning of the third year of the initial project
  period. The submission date is the same for new applications and competing
  continuation applications. These applications are reviewed in the same manner
  and at the same time as new competing applications.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Competing and competing continuation grant applications are submitted for
  three (3) years of support.
Reports:
  A Uniform Progress Report (UPR) and Comprehensive Performance
  Management System (CPMS) Report must be submitted annually. A Financial
  Status Report (FSR) must be submitted within 90 days after the end of each
  budget period. Final progress and financial reports must be submitted within 90
  days after the end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $15,194,382; FY 08 $15,210,512; and FY 09 est $14,689,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
