  $95,999 to $416,335; $281,251.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Projects have assisted nursing schools and other organizations to meet the costs    
  of recruitment and retention of students from disadvantaged backgrounds and         
  facilitated their completion of nursing education programs. In FY07, 28 non-        
  competing continuations and 23 new awards were issued. It is estimated that 41      
  non-competing continuations and 9 new awards will be issues in FY08.                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and    
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,         
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as           
  applicable.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Lt. Aisha K. Mix, MSN, RN, CCM, Division of Nursing, Bureau of Health               
  Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of            
  Health and Human Services, Room 9-36, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane,         
  Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6193.                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.            
  Health Services Branch: 301-443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)           
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  The Nursing Workforce Diversity program supports projects focused on creating       
  registered nurses. The program has three major purposes that applicants must        
  address in their project: 1) retention activities (nursing students), 2) pre-entry  
  preparation, and 3) student scholarships and/or stipends. Expected outcomes of      
  these projects include increasing nursing education opportunities for individuals   
  from disadvantaged backgrounds to improve the diversity of the nursing              
  workforce, meet the increasing need for culturally sensitive and quality health     
  care.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The purpose of the project must be consistent with and promote the activities       
  identified in the law. Need must be documented, and the capability for achieving    
  project goals must be described. In making awards of grants under this section,     
  preference will be given to any qualified applicant with a project that will        
  substantially benefit rural or underserved populations, or help meet public health  
  nursing needs in State in local health departments. This preference will only be    
  applied to applications that rank above the 20th percentile of applications         
  recommended for approval.                                                           
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.181 PODIATRIC RESIDENCY TRAINING IN PRIMARY                                        
CARE                                                                                  
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Part C, Section 755, as amended; Health       
  Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To plan and implement projects in preventive and primary care training for          
  podiatric physicians in approved or provisional residency programs that shall       
  provide financial assistance in the form of traineeships to residents participating 
  in such projects and who are planning to specialize in primary care.                
                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                      
  Project Grants.

                                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                      
  Grants may not be used for new construction, patient services.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Eligible entities are health professions schools, academic health centers, State or

                                                                                      
  local governments or other appropriate public or private nonprofit entities

  including faith-based and community based organizations that conduct training       
                                                                                      
  in approved or provisional residency programs. To be eligible, the applicant

                                                                                      
  shall propose a project which is collaborative among two or more disciplines.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Eligible entities are health professions schools, academic health centers, State or

                                                                                      
  local governments or other appropriate public or private nonprofit entities. To be

  eligible, the applicant shall propose a project which is collaborative among two    
                                                                                      
  or more disciplines. Non-profit entities, including faith-based organizations and

                                                                                      
  community-based organizations, that meet other eligibility requirements are

                                                                                      
  eligible to apply.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued

  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be      


                                                                                11-08 
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov . Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from
  Headquarters Office.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 3 to 4 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  A Summary Progress Report must be submitted each year beginning with the
  second year of support. Competitive continuations may be submitted during the
  terminal year of support.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are available for expenditure during approved budget period. Payment is
  made by an Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cash Request System.
  Approved competing renewal awards are expected to initiate training activities
  during the first year of the project period. New programs may utilize this first
  year for planning and development purposes, and commence training the second
  year of the project period. Each project period is a maximum of 36 months.
Reports:
  A summary progress report must be submitted in the second and subsequent
  budget periods of an approved project period. A financial status report must be
  submitted within 90 days after the end of each budget period. A final progress
  report and financial status report must be submitted within 90 days after the end
  of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records for a minimum of 3
  years after the end of a grant period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit
  or other action involving the record has been started before the expiration of the
  3-year period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. More detailed information regarding retention
  requirements are provided in Title 45, CFR, Parts 74 and 92.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $205,291 to $286,362; $245,826.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Jerry Katzoff, Dental, Psychology and Special Projects Branch, Division of
  Medicine and Dentistry, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and
  Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Room 9A-
  27, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-4443.
  cmclaughlin@hrsa.gov .
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
                                                                                   1303
