  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Competing applications are reviewed by nonfederal consultant(s) for technical        
  merit recommendation. Approval of an application will be based on an analysis        
  of the factors set forth in the application. See the section on Application          
  Procedure above to obtain a copy of the application, and the respective factors      
  delineated in the application.                                                       
                                                                                       
93.184 DISABILITIES PREVENTION                                                         
                                                                                       
   (Disability and Health)                                                             
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT                               
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301(a) and Section 317, as amended, 42            
  U.S.C. 241(a); 42 U.S.C. 247(b).                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To (1) Provide a national focus for the prevention of secondary conditions in        
  persons within selected disability domains including mobility, personal care,        
  communication, and learning; (2) build State capacity to coordinate program          
  activities and assess the magnitude of disability in States; (3) employ              
  epidemiological methods to set priorities and direct health promotion                
  interventions for persons with disabilities; (4) conduct research projects to        
  understand secondary conditions and measure the impact of the environment on         
  the lives of persons with disabilities, and conduct studies on the effectiveness of  
  interventions in targeted groups of persons with disabilities; (5) fund and          
  support a national limb loss information center; (6) fund and support a national     
  information center on physical activity for persons with disabilities; (7) fund and  
  support a national paralysis and quality of life/health promotion information and    
  resource center; and (8) fund and support a national spina bifida information and    
  resource center.                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  CDC issued continuation awards in fiscal year 2008 for 16 State disability and       
  health cooperative agreements. Continuation awards for research project grants       
  were awarded in fiscal year 2008. CDC issued competitive awards to four              
  information/resource centers to address the prevention of secondary conditions       
  and health promotion for persons with disabilities. State capacity cooperative       
  agreements: These awards are providing financial assistance to: 1) Establish         
  and/or sustain State offices of disability and health to promote the visibility of

                                                                                       
  preventing secondary conditions as a State public health priority, and serve as a    
  technical assistance resource and statewide focus for the prevention of secondary    
  conditions; 2) support an advisory function to coordinate and provide policy and     
  program direction guidance in the State; 3) develop and/or implement a State         
  strategic plan or policy instrument for health promotion for persons with            
  disabilities; 4) establish and implement university partnerships to support and      
  complement State project activities; 5) maintain and refine prescribed public        
  health surveillance or survey activities for disability domains of mobility,         
  personal care, communications, and learning in order to implement prevention         
  efforts and program evaluation activities; 6) provide technical assistance to        
  communities; and 7) promote education and health promotion programs for              
  persons with disabilities, conduct training of health professionals, and facilitate  
  access to services for persons with disabilities. Research project grants:           
  Financial assistance under this program is being used to: 1) Implement and           
  evaluate programs to identify and quantify preventable secondary conditions          
  within disability domains which include physical, medical, cognitive, emotional,     
  and/or psychosocial conditions and their prevention; 2) determine the risk and       
  protective factors in specified populations of persons who have a disability; 3)     
  measure the effectiveness and costs of preventive interventions; and 4) develop      
  measurements of the environment that can facilitate or hinder access to              
  participation for persons with a disability. National Limb Loss Information          
  Center: Financial assistance has been awarded to operate a national                  
  clearinghouse to provide educational materials and self-help guidance to persons     
  with limb loss and limb difference their families, and develop a peer visitation     
  training initiative for the conduct of education and training sessions in hospitals, 
  rehabilitation facilities, and support groups. The National Center on Physical       
  Activity and Disability provides multiple sources of information and references      
  on a vast array of inquiries on exercise, fitness and health promotion activities.   
  National Paralysis Resource Center: Financial assistance has been awarded to         
  operate a national resource center for persons with paralysis, their families, and   
  their caregivers. National Spina Bifida Information and Resource Center:             
  Financial assistance has been awarded to expand local programs for those             
  affected by spina bifida, seed research into spina bifida, and expand information    


1304                                                                             11-08

  resources. In these cases, project funds may not be used to supplant State, local,
  or institutional funds available for these activities, or for construction costs, or to
  purchase facilities or space. Grantees may enter into contracts as necessary to
  help achieve the objectives of their respective programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Based on available funding for fiscal year 2008, CDC issued a continuation
  awards for 16 State projects. Eligibility for the programs in the future are State
  health departments or other official organizational authority (agency or
  instrumentality) of States, including the District of Columbia, the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United
  States. Also, four national information centers on limb loss, physical activity,
  paralysis, and spina bifida were funded. Eligible applicants for competing
  applications in fiscal year 2008 included public and private nonprofit entities,
  including universities, university-affiliated systems, not-for-profit medical
  centers, research institutions and rehabilitation hospitals, disability service
  groups such as advocacy and voluntary organizations and independent living
  centers, and federally recognized Indian Tribal Governments. For the limb loss
  information center, the physical activity, paralysis and spina bifida resource
  center projects; new applications were solicited for these programs in FY 2008.
  New competitive applications were solicited from States in FY 2007.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  In addition to the eligible applicants, other groups who will receive benefits from
  the program include persons with disabilities and family members of persons
  with disabilities, persons with limb loss, minority populations, refugees, infants,
  children, youth, adults, senior citizens, women, all educational levels, all income
  levels, urban, suburban, and rural populations, health/ rehabilitation
  professionals, scientists, educators, and researchers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  State disability and health applicants documented in their fiscal year 2007
  competitive applications the need for assistance, indicated the objectives of their
  projects, presented their approaches to meet set objectives, and outlined the
  method of operation. Current information centers requested continuation
  funding to meet original protocols and objectives. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and
  federally-recognized Indian Tribal Governments. For nonprofit recipients, costs
  will be determined in accordance with HHS Regulation 45 CFR 74.
Preapplication Coordination:
  As new competitive funding becomes available for this program, preapplication
  coordination will not be required. However applicants will be encouraged to
  submit a non-binding letter of intent 30 days before the deadline date. State
  capacity projects are subject to E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of
  Federal Programs." Applicants should consult the office or officials designated
  as the single point of contact in their State for more information on the process
  the State requires in applying for financial assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review. Research grant projects applicants in future years will
  not be subject to E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  To apply for this funding opportunity, use application form PHS 398 (OMB
  number 0925-0001 rev. 5/2001). Forms and instructions are available in an
  interactive format on the CDC web site, at the following Internet address:
  www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. Submit the signed original and five copies
  of your application by mail or express delivery service to: Technical Information
  Management, CDC Procurement and Grants Office, 2920 Brandywine Road,
  Atlanta, GA 30341. This program is subject to the provisions set forth in 45
  CFR 92, for State and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for
  nonprofit organizations.
Award Procedure:
  State disability and health cooperative agreement competitive awards are
  determined by an internal objective committee review process at CDC. Research
  project grant competitive awards are determined by an external peer review. At
  such times, awards will be based on evaluation criteria set forth in the respective
  Program Announcements, the availability of funds, and such other significant
  factors as deemed necessary and appropriate by CDC. Awards for State
  disability and health projects will be issued for expected project periods of 5
  years. Future awards for Research project grants are not expected to be issued
  until fiscal year 2009 given the funding cycles for those projects. The Notices of
  Grant Award will indicate financial support for the first budget year, allocations
  of Federal funds by budget category, and special conditions, if any.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Headquarters Office for application deadline information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Between 60 to 95 days from the deadline date for submission of applications.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  A new competition for State awards was conducted in February 2007.
  Competition for new or additional State projects will be based on future
  appropriations. The current research project grants will conclude their respective
  project periods during the period in September 2009. New Research grants are
  expected to be announced in September 2009. The National Limb Loss
