  public information on vaccine-preventable diseases and conditions.                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Project funds may be used for the costs associated with organizing and                
  conducting these projects, and in certain circumstances, for purchasing vaccine.      
  Requests for direct assistance (i.e., "in lieu of cash") for personnel, vaccines, and 
  other forms of direct assistance will be considered. Funds may not be used to         
  supplant existing immunization program activities.                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Under Section 317(k) of the Public Health Service Act: States, political              
  subdivisions of States, and other public and private nonprofit entities.              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Under Section 317(k) of the Public Health Service Act: States, political              
  subdivisions of States, and other public and private nonprofit entities.              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the       
  project, outline the method of operation, describe the evaluation procedures, and     
  provide a budget with justification of funds requested. Costs will be determined      
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.             
  For nonprofit recipients, costs will be determined in accordance with HHS             
  Regulations 45 CFR 74, Subpart Q.                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  Preapplication coordination is not required. Applications are subject to              
  Executive Order 12372. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,        
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult           
  the office or officials designated as the single point of contact in his or her State 
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying     
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                     
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  To apply for this funding opportunity, use application form PHS 398 (OMB              
  number 0925-0001 rev. 5/2001). Forms and instructions are available in an             
  interactive format on the CDC web site, at the following Internet address:            
  www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. Submit the signed original and five copies           
  of your application by mail or express delivery service to: Technical Information     
  Management, CDC Procurement and Grants Office, 2920 Brandywine Road,                  
  Atlanta, GA 30341. The standard application forms must be used for this               
  program, as furnished by CDC and required by 45 CFR 92 for State and local            
  governmental agencies, and by OMB Circular No. A-110 for nongovernmental              
  applicants. This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR 92 for State and      
  local governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations.             
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Applications that are complete and responsive to the announcement will be             
  evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate peer review group      
  convened by the NCIPC in accordance with the review criteria. As part of the          
  initial merit review, all applications may: (1) Undergo a process in which only       
  those applications deemed to have the highest scientific merit, generally the top     
  half of the applications under review, will be discussed and assigned a priority      
  score; (2) receive a written critique; and (3)receive a second level review by the    
  Science and Program Review Subcommittee (SPRS) of the Advisory Committee              
  for Injury Prevention and Control (ACIPC). Successful applicants will receive a       
  Notice of Award (NOA) from the CDC Procurement and Grants Office. The                 
  NOA shall be the only binding, authorizing document between the recipient and         
  CDC. The NOA will be signed by an authorized Grants Management Officer,               
  and mailed to the recipient fiscal officer identified in the application.             
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Contact Headquarters Office for application deadline.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  From three to six months.

Appeals:

                                                                                        
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                               
  Project periods are for one to five years with 12-month renewals. Applications        
  must be obtained from Grants Management Officer, Grants Management                    
  Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and                
  Prevention. Telephone: (770) 488-2716.                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  There are no statutory or matching cost requirements.                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Project period: Variable. Budget period: For 12 months.                               
Reports:                                                                                
  Subject to OMB clearance, quarterly narrative progress reports (including             
  appropriate statistical data) are required 30 days after the end of each quarter.     
  Narratives should address progress or lack of progress in achieving project           
  objectives, including methods being used to resolve problems. Financial status        
  reports are required no later than 90 days after the end of each budget period.       
  Final financial status and performance reports are required 90 days after the end     
  of a project period.                                                                  
Audits:                                                                                 
  "In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June          


1306                                                                              11-08

  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133."
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the program shall be retained for a minimum of three years,
  or until completion and resolution of any audit in process or pending resolution.
  In all cases, records must be retained until resolution of any audit questions.
  Property records must be retained in accordance with PHS Grants Policy
  Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $10,008,216; FY 08 $9,118,317; and FY 09
  est $9,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $5,000 to $500,000; $185,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Various projects were implemented to evaluate methods of improving
  immunization levels. These projects included working with traditional and
  nontraditional partners, including national minority organizations, universities,
  and health officials of various political subdivisions. Research projects were
  funded to determine the occurrence and scientific basis for infrequent adverse
  events following vaccination.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000,
  (Rev.) April 1, 1994.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Mr. Michael Detmer, Management Officer, National Center
  for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and
  Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services, 1600 Clifton Road, NE.,
  Mailstop E-05, Atlanta, GA 30333. Telephone: (404) 639-8900. Fax: (404)
  639-8626. E-mail: MMD4@cdc.gov. Grants Management Contact: Sharron
  Orum, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and
  Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services, 2920 Brandywine Road,
  Room 3618, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2716.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.217, Family Planning_Services; 93.246, Health Centers Grants for Migrant
  and Seasonal Farmworkers; 93.268, Immunization Grants; 93.283, Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and Technical Assistance;
  93.600, Head Start.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Columbia University, Emory University, Vanderbilt University, University of
  Rochester, and the American Academy of Pediatrics.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated based on: (1) The extent of the problem; (2) the
  establishment of specific and measurable objectives to address the problem; and
  (3) the development of a sound operational plan which will ensure the
  implementation of each program element.
93.186 NATIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE AWARD IN
PRIMARY CARE MEDICINE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title IV, Part G, Section 487(d)(3), as amended;
  National Institutes of Health Revitalization Act of 1993, Public Law 103-43.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote postdoctoral research training programs in primary care.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  National Research Services Awards (NRSA) in Primary Care are made to
  approved institutions to enable them to provide up to three years of NRSA
  fellowship support to qualified postdoctoral individuals undertaking research
  training in primary care. Each NRSA trainee is obligated to comply with Federal
  service and payback provisions. Trainees in the first 12 months of postdoctoral
  support incur one month of service payback obligation for each month of
  support. Postdoctoral trainees in the 13th and subsequent months of NRSA
  support do not incur any further service obligation. Furthermore, the 13th and
  subsequent months of postdoctoral training serve to discharge the NRSA
