  payback obligation.                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Domestic public or private nonprofit organizations or institutions may apply for   
  training grants. Applicant institution must be an entity that trains primary care  
  providers in medicine or dentistry and has received federal support as evidenced   
  by receipt of a grant under Title VII, section 747 grant of the Public Health      
  service Act, designed to prepare the primary care health workforce. State or local 
  governments and U.S. Territories are eligible. For profit organizations are not    
  eligible. All persons supported as fellows or trainees must be citizens or non-    
  citizen nationals of the United States, or have been lawfully admitted for         
  permanent residence.                                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Individuals and public or private nonprofit organizations or institutions,         
  including State or local governments and U.S. Territories, who have received       
  grants or contracts under Sections 747, 748 or 749 of the Public Health Service    
  Act, are the beneficiaries of this program.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be     
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of the         
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more    
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for       
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                      
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find    
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health            
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final           
  selections for awards.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications are reviewed for scientific merit by a committee including            
  nonfederal consultants who are selected from appropriate scientific fields.        
  HRSA considers the recommendations of the review committee, program                
  interest, and the availability of funds in the final selection of grantees. When   
  such decisions are made, applicants are notified and a formal award notice is      
  issued. Before receiving support, all individual fellows and institutional trainees
  must submit required forms, including a statement of appointment and a             
  payback agreement.                                                                 
Deadlines:

  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 5 to 6 months from receipt of application.

Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:

  Competitive continuations may be submitted during the final budget period of       
  the approved project period.                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  No individual trainee may receive more than 3 years of aggregate National          
  Research Service Award support at the post-doctoral level, including any           
  combination of support from institutional and individual awards. Institutional     
  training grants may be awarded for project periods up to 3 years. Awards are       
  made on an annual basis and it is expected that expenditures will be made within   
  the budget period awarded. After awards are issued, funds are released in          
  accordance with the payment procedure established by the grantee with the          
  Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), which may be the                   
  Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cash Request System.                       
Reports:                                                                             
  A final progress report is required 90 days after the end of the project period.   
  Annual progress reports, financial status reports, and final financial status      
  reports are required for National Research Service Awards in Primary Care.         
  Annual financial status reports must be submitted within 90 days after the close   
  of each budget period and the end of the project period. Annual submission of      
  Public Health Service forms certifying service payback activities are required of  
  all NRSA fellows.                                                                  
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             


                                                                                11-08
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $7,713,000; FY 08 est $7,434,200; and FY 09 est $7,500,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  (FY 07) $190,119 to $834,018; $405,947.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, 19 non-competitive continuation awards were made. For FY 08, 20-25
  competitive awards are anticipated.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  John R. Kress, Public Health Advisor, Division of Diversity and
  Interdisciplinary Education, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and
  Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Parklawn
  Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 8C-09, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:
  301-443-6864.
Headquarters Office:
  Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants Management Operations, Health
  Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human
  Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16. Health Services Branch: (301)
  443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301) 443-3099; Government and
  Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.225, National Research Service Awards_Health Services Research Training.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Training pediatricians, family physicians, general internists, and other doctorally
  trained health professionals to conduct research on the practice conditions
  encountered by primary care providers.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessment of: (1) history of
  performance of preceptors and trainees; (2) primary care research focus; and (3)
  trainee recruitment and retention.
93.187 UNDERGRADUATE SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
FOR INDIVIDUALS FROM DISADVANTAGED
BACKGROUNDS
   (NIH Undergraduate Scholarship Program; UGSP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title IV, Part G, Section 487D, as amended, Public
  Law 103-43; 42 U.S.C. 288-4.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide service-conditioned scholarships to individuals from disadvantaged
  backgrounds who agree to pursue undergraduate education at accredited
  institutions. Individuals must pursue a course of academic study which prepares
  them for professions needed by the National Institutes of Health (NIH). NIH
  expects to facilitate interest of these individuals in pursuing careers in the
  biomedical/biobehavioral sciences at the NIH.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This program will provide scholarships to individuals who are enrolled or
  accepted for enrollment as full-time students at an accredited undergraduate
  institution of higher education and who are from disadvantaged backgrounds.
  Each recipient must agree by written contract to serve as an NIH employee full-
  time for not less than 10 consecutive weeks of each year during which the
  individual is attending the undergraduate institution and receiving a scholarship;
  and, not later than 60 days after obtaining the educational degree, each recipient
  must begin serving as a full-time NIH employee for one year for each year of
  NIH scholarship support (a deferment of the service obligation may be obtained
  if the Director, NIH, determines that such is appropriate). Applicants must
  submit a proposed academic program for each academic year and agree that this
  program will not be altered without prior approval. The applicant must be in
  good academic (maintain a minimum GPA of 3.5) standing with their
  educational institution for continuation under the scholarship program.
                                                                                  1307
