  Maximum scholarship per academic year is $20,000. Scholarship funds may            
  only be used for tuition expenses and qualified educational and living expenses    
  incurred while attending school.                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  An eligible applicant must be (1) A U.S. citizen, national, or permanent resident; 
  (2) enrolled or accepted for enrollment as a full-time student at an accredited    
  undergraduate institution (4 year school) of higher education; (3) from a          
  disadvantaged background as determined by the Secretary of Health and Human        
  Services; (4) in good academic standing (minimum GPA of 3.5 or be in the top 5     
  percent) with his/her educational institution; and (5) submit an application to    
  participate in the Undergraduate Scholarship (UGS) Program; (6) agree to serve     
  as a full-time NIH employee for not less than 10 consecutive weeks of each year    
  during which the individual is attending the educational institution and receiving 
  a scholarship; (7) agree to serve as a full-time NIH employee for 12 months for    
  each academic year during which the scholarship was provided, not later than 60    
  days after obtaining his or her academic degree, unless a service deferment is     
  granted.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Undergraduate students from disadvantaged backgrounds pursuing academic            
  programs supporting professions needed by the NIH.                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants must submit documentation of the following, as appropriate: (1)         
  Verification of enrollment or acceptance to an accredited institution of higher    
  education (4 year school); (2) a proposed academic program for the school year;    
  (3) certification from the academic institution that the applicant is in good      
  academic standing (minimum GPA of 3.5, or be in the top 5 percent); (4)            
  certification from the academic institution that the applicant qualifies for       
  participation in an educational assistance program for individuals from            
  disadvantaged backgrounds as defined by the Secretary of Health and Human          
  Services; and (5) other documentation as may be required by law, statute, or       
  regulation.                                                                        
                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

  Students must be given a fair summary of the rights and liabilities of applicants  
  prior to application. This summary is included in the application packet.          
  Applications are available directly from the program up to 20 weeks before the     
                                                                                     
  application deadline. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.

                                                                                     
  12372. Applicants should request an application package from the NIH's

                                                                                     
  Intramural Loan Repayment Scholarship Programs, 2 Center Drive, Room 2E24,

                                                                                     
  Bethesda, MD 20892-0230. Telephone: (888)352-3001. Facsimile: (301) 480-

                                                                                     
  3123.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

  Application, a signed contract, and other required information (as listed in the

  application packet) are submitted to the Program office. Once an application       
  package is received by the administering Program Office, preliminary eligibility

                                                                                     
  will be determined and highly qualified applicants will be interviewed. Final

  determination of awards will be made upon review by the Undergraduate

                                                                                     
  Scholarship Program Committee at a regularly scheduled meeting.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Priority will be given to applicants who are prior recipients. The NIH

                                                                                     
  Undergraduate Scholarship Program Committee will review, rank, and approve

                                                                                     
  or disapprove applications submitted for program participation. Criteria which

                                                                                     
  determine competitive ranking for awards may include: (1) career goal in

                                                                                     
  biomedical/biobehavioral research; (2) academic performance; and (3) letters of

                                                                                     
  recommendation. A student's financial need alone does not affect selection.        
  Applicants approved for award will be notified by the Program Director. The        
  Secretary, and his/her designee will sign the service contract of approved         
  applicants, provide a copy to the participant and under graduate institution       
  notice of approved award amount. Scholarship payments, including room and          
  board, books, fees and transportation are made to the college or university for    
  dispersal.                                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact the Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  The approximate time for approval/disapproval is 3 months.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Annual renewal applications are required to extend the award. Extensions of the    
  scholarship award are subject to availability of funds, acceptable academic and    
  laboratory performance.                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Each award covers 1 calendar year, and may be extended for an additional 3         
  years, for a maximum of 4 years. No awardee may receive more than 4 years of       
  support.                                                                           
Reports:                                                                             
  Annual reports by schools indicating average student educational expenses and      
  academic status of students.                                                       
Audits:                                                                              


1308                                                                           11-08

  None.
Records:
  The NIH will maintain applicant records for 3 years after rejection and
  participant records for 6 years after completion of final service obligation.
Account Identification:
  75-6846-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Scholarships, Salaries and Benefits) FY 07 $790,000; FY 08 est $1,484,000;
  and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Dollar assistance per scholar ranges from $1,714 to $20,000 per year. Average
  annual dollar assistance per scholar is estimated to be $12,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Thirteen awards were made in fiscal year 2007. NIH projects that 20 awards
  will be made in fiscal year 2008 and 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Pertinent information is contained in Public Law 103-43, Section 1631; and
  Section 487D of Public Health Services Act (42 U.S.C. 288-4).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program and Business Contact: Darryl M.Murray, Ph.D., Undergraduate
  Scholarship Program, Office of Intramural Research, National Institutes of
  Health, 2 Center Drive, Room 2E24, Bethesda, MD 20892-0230. Telephone:
  (888)352-3001. Facsimile: (301) 480-3123. Email: ugsp@nih.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://ugsp.info.nih.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.288, National Health Service Corps Scholarship Program; 93.972, Health
  Professions Scholarship Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funded undergraduate students majoring in the following disciplines:
  Biochemistry, Biology, Chemistry, Computer Science, Microbiology,
  Neurobiology, Neuroscience, and Pharmacology.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The NIH Undergraduate Scholarship Program Committee will review, rank, and
  approve or disapprove applications based on career goals and academic
  performance. Priority will be given to applicants who have demonstrated good
  academic performance, demonstrated a career goal to pursue
  biomedical/biobehavioral research, and have characteristics which support the
  likelihood they will complete their service obligations.
93.189 HEALTH EDUCATION AND TRAINING CENTERS
   (HETC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Part C, Section 752, 42 U.S.C. 294b, as
  amended; Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law
  105-392.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide assistance for establishing, maintaining, and operating Health
  Education and Training Centers (HETCs) that: (1)address the persistent and
  severe unmet health care needs in States along the border between the United
  States and Mexico and in the State of Florida, and in other urban and rural areas
  with populations with serious unmet health care needs; (2) establish an advisory
  board comprised of health service providers, educators and consumers from the
  service area; (3) conduct training and education programs for health professions
  students these areas; (4) conduct training in health education services, including
  training to prepare community health workers; and (5) support health
  professionals (including nursing) practicing in the area through educational and
  other services. Applicants shall collaborate with 2 or more disciplines, e.g.,
  medicine, dentistry, nursing, advanced practice nursing, physicians assistant,
  mental health, public health, pharmacy, physical therapist, social work, allied
  health, community health worker; enter into contracts and agreements with
  entities with expertise in providing public health and health education services
  to the public; and coordinate activities and programs with similar activities and
  programs carried out in the target communities and minority, disadvantaged,
  and/or underserved populations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are to assist in meeting costs of the program which cannot be met from
  other sources. Not less than 75 percent of the total funds provided to a school or
  schools of allopathic medicine or osteopathic medicine or nursing will be
  expended in the development and operation of the health education and training
  center in the service area of such program; to the maximum extent feasible, the
