  schools of medicine or nursing will obtain from nongovernmental sources the         
  amount of the total operating funds for such program which are not provided by      
  the Secretary; no grant or contract shall provide funds solely for the planning or  
  development of a health education and training center program for a period in       
  excess of 2 years; not more than 10 percent of the annual budget of each            
  program may be utilized for the renovation and equipping of clinical teaching       
  sites; and no grant or contract shall provide funds to be used outside the United   
  States, except as the Secretary may prescribe for travel and communications         
  purposes related to the conduct of a border health education and training center.   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Accredited schools of allopathic or osteopathic medicine, or the parent             
  institution on behalf of such schools, or a consortium of such schools. In States   
  in which no area health education centers program is in operation, an accredited    
  school of nursing is also an eligible applicant.                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Same as applicant eligibility above.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued              
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications are generally solicited by a program announcement in the HRSA          
  Preview. Applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from      
  the HRSA Application Center, The Legin Group, Inc. 910 Clopper Road, Suite          
  155 South, Gaithersburg, MD 20878 Telephone: (877) 477-2123, Email:                 
  HRSAGAC@hrsa.gov or by visiting www.hrsa.gov/grant . Application                    
  information may also be found by visiting www.grants.gov . All qualified            
  applications will be forwarded to an objective review committee which will          
  make funding recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau          
  of Health Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make        
  final selections for awards.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from the          
  Headquarters Office.                                                                
Deadlines:                                                                            
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 3 to 4 months after receipt of applications.                                   
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Competing continuation applications may be submitted during the final budget        
  period of the approved project.                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Fifty percent of the appropriated funds each year must be made available for        
  approved applications for border HETCs. The amount allocated for each               
  approved application for a border HETC shall be determined in accordance with       
  a formula which is based on data relative to: (1) The low-income population, in     
  233 counties and the 67 counties of Florida; (2) the percent change in population   
  of those counties; (3) need for primary care physicians; and (4) infant mortality   
  rate for each county.                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The first project period will be up to 3 years to allow for the development of the  
  health education and training centers. However, no Federal funds will be used       
  solely for the planning or development of a program period after the first project  
  period which will be a maximum of 3 years.                                          
Reports:                                                                              
  A Uniform Progress Report(UPR) and a Comprehensive Performance                      
  Management System (CPMS) report must be submitted annually and can be               
  submitted electronically. The grantee report web site is                            
  http://bhpr.hrsa.gov/grants/reports.htm . A Financial Status Report must be         
  submitted within 90 days after the end of each budget period. A final progress      
  report and Financial Status Report must be submitted within 90 ddays after the      
  end of the budget period.                                                           
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                     
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000    
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit            
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a       
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,    
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records for a minimum of 3       
  years after the end of a grant period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit 
  or other action involving the record has been started before the expiration of the  
  3-year period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and     
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year


                                                                                 11-08
  period, whichever is later. More detailed information regarding retention
  requirements are provided in Title 45, CFR, Parts 74 and 92.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  FY 05, Border HETCs: $100,000 to $556,010; $355,462. Non-Border HETCs:
  $239,508 to $326,615; $296,069.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Louis D. Coccodrilli, M.P.H., Chief, or Susan Goodman, D.D.S., Dental Officer,
  AHEC Branch, Division of State, Community and Public Health, Bureau of
  Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn
  Building, Room 9-05, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:
  (301) 443-6950.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grants cover planning and implementation strategies on statewide, regional and
  local levels, including training programs serving Hispanics and other
  minority/underserved populations in Florida and United States-Mexico border
  areas, and in other underserved, rural and inner-city communities. Trainees
  include physicians, nurses, allied health personnel, public health personnel,
  community health workers and others. Descriptions of funded programs are
  available at http://bhpr.hrsa.gov/interdisciplinary/03abstracts/hetc.htm .
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Competing applications are initially reviewed by nonfederal consultants whose
  recommendations are considered by the Secretary. The Secretary will approve
  projects which best promote the purposes of the HETC Program, section 752(a)
  of the PHS Act, as amended. In the determining the funding of applications,
  consideration is given to: (1) NEED How the program will fill or address the
  identified workforce gaps; the description of the present project, describing the
  persistent and unmet health care needs that the project is addressing along the
  border between the United States and Mexico, in the state of Florida, or in other
  urban and rural areas with population with serious unmet health care needs; how
  the educational program will improve the capacity of the health workforce; how
  the proposal will effect the state's, border or region's health education and
  training efforts; the extent to which the program identifies specific professions
  proposed to be trained; evidence of an enrollee/program trainee pool, which may
  include underrepresented minorities/disadvantaged; how the program addresses
  the health disparities of the population in the service area(s); and how the project
  identifies the counties composing the geographical area; (2) RESPONSE
  Specifies measurable outcome objectives which are attainable within the stated
  time frame; the degree to which the number of trainees estimated to be trained
  by discipline is reasonable; a description of the proposed training locations and
  sites; the extent to which the sites are in medically underserved areas; the
  potential of the applicant to demonstrate flexibility to respond to emerging issues
  and/or needs relevant to the communities and populations served; the proposal
  clearly describes and outlines the activities to carry out each objective within the
  stated time frame; the degree to which the applicant describes a comprehensive
  coordinated multidisciplinary approach to training of health professionals; and
  provides letters describing established and proposed linkages and collaborative
  efforts from individuals, partners, or other entities; (3) EVALUATIVE
  MEASURES Strength of the applicant's plans for evaluation of the program
  including identified project outcomes; describes the methods and techniques that
  will be used to measure the outcomes of each objective; specifies what data will
  be collected, the method for collection and the manner in which data will be
  analyzed and reported; describes the responsibilities of key personnel and the
  amount of time and effort required to perform the evaluation activities; provides
  a realistic and attainable timeline; and potential effectiveness as evidenced by
  the outcomes objectives and activities in relationship to the needs of the
  professions or populations to be trained; (4) IMPACT A plan for dissemination
  of information and results of the project; the potential of the applicant to meet
  the proposed goals and objectives; the number of students proposed to be
  trained; the number of health care providers proposed to be trained; the number
  of community health workers proposed to be trained; and Data reported
                                                                                   1309
