  distribution, diversity and quality; (5) RESOURCES/CAPABILITIES Bio-                
  sketches of key personnel; key personnel's capacity to conduct the stated           
  program activities; coherent and reasonable Staffing Plan for the program's         
  stated objectives; A demonstrated ability to coordinate complex programs;           
  location of facilities for the proposed activities is reasonable and appears to be  
  adequate to support the needs of the objectives; the extent of institutional        
  support letters of support from host institution(s) are included; and the           
  coordination and partnering necessary for community involvement and positive        
  trainee experiences; and (6) SUPPORT REQUESTED The reasonableness of the            
  proposed budget in relation to the objectives, the complexity of the activities,    
  and the anticipated results; effective use of                                       
  fundsandresources to carry out the project; potential of proposed HETC program      
  and participating center(s) to continue on a self sustaining basis; a reasonable    
  budget aligned with the objectives and the scope of the project; and specific       
  information that describes the extent and means by which the project plans to       
  become self-sufficient including other sources of income, the nature of income,     
  future funding initiatives and strategies.                                          
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.191 ALLIED HEALTH SPECIAL PROJECTS                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 755, 42 U.S.C. 294e, as amended;      
  Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  Grants are awarded to meet the costs of projects to plan, develop, operate, or      
  maintain graduate psychology education programs in behavioral and mental            
  health to train graduate psychologists to work with underserved populations.        
  These programs are expected to foster an integrated approach to health care         
  services and address access for underserved populations.                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds may be used for predoctoral and postdoctoral stipend support of students.     
  Funds may not be used for student tuition or fees or for direct health care service 
  delivery.                                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible entities are accredited health profession schools, university, and other   
  public or private nonprofit entities, including faith-based organizations and       
  community-based organizations. Only applicants whose training program is            
  accredited by the American Psychological Association (APA) and who provide          
  such documentation can be funded. The eligible entity must demonstrate that         
  the training within an accredited psychology training program will occur in         
  collaboration with one or more disciplines other than psychology. Disciplines       
  include, but are not limited to, family medicine, general internal medicine, and    
  pediatrics. Funding is available for accredited doctoral programs, internships,     
  and post-doctoral training programs.                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Public or private nonprofit schools, universities, or other educational entities    
  which provide for graduate psychology education and training or other public or     
  private nonprofit entities capable, as determined by the Secretary, of carrying out 
  the objectives of the project.                                                      
                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued              
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from         
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be   
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                  
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health             
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final            
  selections for awards.                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from the          
  Headquarters Office.                                                                
Deadlines:                                                                            
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 4 to 6 months after receipt of applications.                                   
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  At the end of the initial project period, competing continuation applications may   
  be submitted for up to three years of support.                                      


1310                                                                            11-08

Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project periods are for 3 years.
Reports:
  A uniform summary progress report must be submitted annually. Financial
  status reports are required within 90 days after the end of each budget period. A
  final progress report and final financial status report must be submitted within
  90 days after the end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations,"nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,802,071; FY 08 $1,850,754; and FY 09 est $1,875,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $70,000 to $184,000; $90,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, 18 new awards were made. In FY 2008, 18 continuation awards
  were made. It is anticipated that 18 continuation awards will be made in FY
  2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Jerilyn K. Glass, M.D., Ph.D., Program Officer, Division of Medicine and
  Dentistry, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services
  Administration, Room 9A-21, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville,
  MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-7271, and E-mail: jglass@hrsa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funded projects include interdisciplinary training for graduate psychology
  students in settings where psychologists are part of a team of primary health care
  practitioners. Training opportunities are varied but focus on learning how to
  provide behavioral and mental health services to underserved populations. Some
  examples of at-risk populations have included individuals who are
  disadvantaged, elderly, abused, homeless, or disabled.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All applications will be evaluated by an Objective Review Committee to
  determine the extent to which the applicant documents the following criteria:
  (1) Need: the extent to which application describes the problem and associated
  contributing factors to the problem; (2) Response: the extent to which the
  proposed project responds to the "Purpose" included in the program description;
  the clarity of the proposed goals and objectives and their relationship to the
  identified project; the extent to which the activities (scientific or other)
  described in the application are capable of addressing the problem and attaining
  the project objectives; (3) Evaluative Measures: the effectiveness of the method
  proposed to monitor and evaluate the project results. Evaluative measures must
  be able to assess to what extent the program objectives have been met and; to
  what extent these can be attributed to the project; (4) Impact: the extent and
  effectiveness of plans for dissemination of project results and/or; the extent to
  which project results may be national in scope and/or the degree to which a
  community is impacted by delivery of health services, and/or the degree to
  which the project activities are replicable and/or the sustainability of the
  program beyond Federal funding; (5) Resources/Capabilities: the extent to which
  project personnel are qualified by training and/or experience to implement and
  carry out the project; the capabilities of the applicant organization, and quality
