  and availability of facilities and personnel to fulfill the needs and requirements   
  of the proposed project; and for competing continuations grant, past                 
  performance will be considered; (6) Support Requested: the reasonableness of         
  the proposed budget in relation to the objectives, the complexity of the activities, 
  and the anticipated results. In making awards of grants under this section,          
  preference will be given to any qualified applicant that (A) has a high rate for     
  placing graduates in practice settings having the principal focus of serving         
  residents of medically underserved communities; or (B) during the 2-year period      
  preceding the fiscal year for which such an award is sought, has achieved a          
  significant increase in the rate of placing graduates in such settings. Applicants   
  should review the HRSA Guidance documents issued under this CFDA program             
  for preference requirements. Preference will also be given to any qualified          
  applicant that meets four (4) or more of the following seven (7) new program         
  criteria: (1) The mission statement of the program identifies a specific purpose     
  of preparing health professionals to serve underserved populations; (2) The          
  curriculum includes content that will help to prepare practitioners to serve         
  underserved populations; (3) Substantial clinical training experience is required    
  in medically underserved communities; (4) A minimum of twenty (20) percent           
  of the faculty spend at least fifty (50) percent of their time providing/supervising 
  care in medically underserved communities; (5) The entire program or a               
  substantial portion of the program, (i.e., the primary, ambulatory education         
  training sites) is physically located in a medically underserved community; (6)      
  Student assistance, which is linked to service in medically underserved              
  communities following graduation, is available to the students in the program;       
  (7) The program provides a placement mechanism for deploying graduates to            
  medically underserved communities. Preference will be given only for                 
  applications ranked above the 20th percentile of applications that have been         
  recommended for approval by the appropriate peer review group. Based on              
  Presidential Executive Orders 12876, 12900, 13021, and 13125, a funding              
  priority will be given to approved applicants who devote significant resources to    
  provide community-based training experiences designedto improve access to            
                                                                                       
  health care services in underserved areas; these applicants include

                                                                                       
  Asian-American and Pacific Islander Serving Institutions, Hispanic Serving

                                                                                       
  Institutions, Historically Black Colleges and Universities, Tribal Colleges and

                                                                                       
  Universities serving American Indians and Alaska Natives, or an institution that

                                                                                       
  collaborates with one or more of the above listed institutions.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.192 QUENTIN N. BURDICK PROGRAM FOR RURAL                                            
INTERDISCIPLINARY TRAINING                                                             
                                                                                       
   (Interdisciplinary Training for Health Care for Rural Areas)                        
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 754, 42 U.S.C. 294p, as amended;       
  Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The goal of this program is to provide or improve access to health care in rural     
  areas. Specifically, projects funded under this authority shall be designed to: (a)  
  Use new and innovative methods to train health care practitioners to provide         
  services in rural areas; (b) demonstrate and evaluate innovative interdisciplinary   
  methods and models designed to provide access to cost-effective comprehensive        
  health care; (c) deliver health care services to individuals residing in rural areas;
  (d) enhance the amount of relevant research conducted concerning health care         
  issues in rural areas; and (e) increase the recruitment and retention of health care 
  practitioners from rural areas and make rural practice a more attractive career      
  choice for health care practitioners.                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grant funds are awarded to eligible applicants to carry out their interdisciplinary  
  training projects using various methods, including student stipends, post-           
  doctoral fellowships, faculty training, and the purchase or rental of                
  transportation and telecommunication equipment where appropriate to the rural        
  area.                                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Applications will be accepted from health professions schools, academic health       
  centers, State or local governments, Indian Tribes or Tribal organizations, or       
  other appropriate public or private nonprofit entities, including faith-based        
  organizations and community-based organizations. Applications must be jointly        
  submitted by at least two eligible entities with the express purpose of assisting    
  individuals in academic institutions in establishing long-term collaborative         
  relationships with health care providers in rural areas. Applicants must designate   
  a rural health care agency or agencies for clinical treatment or training including  
  hospitals, community health centers, migrant health centers, rural health clinics,   
  community behavioral and mental health centers, long-term care facilities,           
  Native Hawaiian health centers or facilities operated by the Indian Health           
                                                                                       
                                                                                  11-08
  Service or an Indian Tribe organization or Indian organization under a contract
  with the Indian Health Service under the Indian Self Determination Act.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The beneficiaries of this program are health professions students and faculty,
  health care practitioners already working in rural areas, and underserved rural
  communities seeking to recruit and retain health care providers. Not more than
  10 percent of the individuals receiving training shall be trained as doctors of
  medicine or osteopathic medicine.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Notification in writing. A Notice of Grant Award will be issued from
  Headquarters Office.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 5 to 6 months from receipt of application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Competitive continuations may be submitted during the final budget period of
  the approved project period.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Institutional training grants may be awarded for project periods up to 3 years.
  Awards are made on an annual basis and it is expected that funds will be
  expended within each budget period awarded. After awards are issued, funds are
  released in accordance with the payment procedure established by the grantee
  with DHHS, which may be an Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cash
  Request System.
Reports:
  Uniform Summary progress reports must be submitted annually. Financial status
  reports are required within 90 days after the end of each budget period. A final
  progress report and financial status report must be submitted within 90 days
  after the end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $133,709 to $344,077; $250,107.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Ms. Marcia Starbecker, Program Officer, Division of State, Community, and
  Public Health, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services
  Administration, Public Health Service, Room 8A-09, Parklawn Building, 5600
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6867.
Headquarters Office:
                                                                                1311
