  accessibility to, and utilization of, other health resources available to such       
  population; (3) duplication of existing Indian Health Service or other Federal       
  grants or contracts; (4) capability of the organization to adequately perform the    
  activities required under the grant; (5) satisfactory performance standards for the  
  organization in meeting the goals; (6) identification of need for services; and (7)  
  proposed methodology for accomplishing the stated goals of the program.              
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.197 CHILDHOOD LEAD POISONING PREVENTION

                                                                                       
PROJECTS-STATE AND LOCAL CHILDHOOD LEAD                                                
POISONING PREVENTION AND SURVEILLANCE OF                                               
BLOOD LEAD LEVELS IN CHILDREN                                                          
                                                                                       
   (Childhood Lead Poisoning Prevention Program (CLPPP))                               
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT                               
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301A, 317A, and 317B, 42 U.S.C. 241a,             
  247b-1, 247b-3, as amended; Children's Health Act of 2000; Preventive Health         
  Amendments of 1992, Section 303, Public Law 102-531.                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To (1) Develop and/or enhance a surveillance system that monitors all blood          
  lead levels; (2) assure that children who are potentially exposed to lead receive    
  follow up care; (3) assure awareness and action among the general public and         
  affected professionals in relation to preventing childhood lead poisoning in high    
  risk areas in collaboration with other government and community based                
  organizations.                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                       
  Awards are to be used by State and local government agencies to develop,

                                                                                       
  improve, and expand their capacity to address the problem of childhood lead

                                                                                       
  poisoning in communities with demonstrated high-risk populations. Recipients

                                                                                       
  of awards are expected to: (a) write, implement and evaluate a jurisdiction-wide

                                                                                       
  childhood lead poisoning elimination plan; (b) write, implement and evaluate

                                                                                       
  screening plans to target resources to children at the highest risk for lead

                                                                                       
  poisoning; (c) maintain a jurisdiction-wide childhood lead surveillance program,     
  with an analysis plan for collected data, (d) conduct primary prevention             
  activities for pregnant women and/or families with children at high risk for lead    
  poisoning, (e) develop an assurance plan for timely and appropriate case             
  management of children with elevated blood lead levels, (f) demonstrate              
  strategic partnering with community organizations and with other state/local         
  agencies involved in environmental and child health activities, (g) coordinate       
  with organizations and agencies involved in lead-based paint hazard reduction        
  activities and development of protective policy; and (h) evaluate programmatic       
  impact on childhood lead poisoning within the applicant's jurisdiction. Awards       
  cannot supplant existing funding for childhood lead poisoning prevention             
  programs or activities. Grant awards may not be expended for medical care and        
  treatment, or for environmental remediation of lead sources, however, there must     
  be an acceptable plan to ensure that these program activities are appropriately      
  carried out. The surveillance component of this grant is intended to assist State    
  health departments in implementing or enhancing a complete surveillance              
  system to track all PbB levels in children. This is essential for grant recipients to
  target interventions to high-risk populations and to track progress toward           
  eliminating childhood lead poisoning.                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Assistance will be provided to State health departments or their bonafide agents     
  and the health departments of the following five local jurisdictions (or their       
  bonafide agents)that have the highest estimated number of children with              
  elevated blood lead levels : New York, NY; Chicago, IL; Detroit, MI; Los             
  Angeles County, CA, and Philadelphia, PA, or their bona fide agents. Also            
  eligible are health departments or other official organizational authorities of the  
  District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the       
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the              
  Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the            
  Republic of Palau, and federally recognized Indian tribal governments.               
  Competition is limited by authorizing legislation.                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  In addition to the eligible applicants, others who receive benefits from the         
  program include infants and children from six months to six years of age who         
  are screened for lead poisoning and family members who care for lead-poisoned        
  children. Lead poisoning potentially affects all children, but disproportionately    
  affects minority children and children of low-income families. Since the effects     
  of lead poisoning can be long lasting, benefits of the program can also affect       
  youth and adults, persons at all educational and income levels, and urban,           
  suburban, and rural populations.                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the      


                                                                                  11-08
  project, present their approach to meeting the objectives, and outline the
  methods of operation. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and federally-recognized
  Indian Tribal Governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication coordination is desired but not required. This program is eligible
  for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should contact the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information. Through this
  process, States are provided the opportunity to review and comment on
  applications for Federal financial assistance. The due date for State process
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline date for new and
  competing continuation awards.
Application Procedure:
  Application forms are both available from and submitted to the Grants
  Management Branch, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920
  Brandywine Road, Room 3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. Standard application forms,
  as furnished by CDC and required by 45 CFR 92 must be used for this program.
  This program is subject to the provisions set forth in 45 CFR 92 for State and
  local governments.
Award Procedure:
  Approved grants are funded based on a priority score ranking from an objective
  review process coordinated by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
  CDC will give funding preference to state programs with significant estimated
  numbers of children with elevated blood lead levels that direct federal funds to
  localities with high concentrations of children at risk for childhood lead
  poisoning. CDC will also give funding preference to the five local jurisdictions
  with the highest estimated number of children with elevated blood lead levels.
  Awards are made based on availability of funds and other significant factors as
  deemed necessary and appropriate by the agency. Funds are awarded for a one-
  year (12 month period). A Notice of Grant Award (Form PHS 5161-1) is
  provided which indicates the current award as well as support recommendations
  for the remainder of the project period (up to three years). The Notice of Grant
  Award indicates allocations for Federal funds by budget categories and any
  special conditions, if applicable.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From two to three months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewal requests cannot exceed a three year project period. Priority
  consideration will be given to noncompeting continuation applications.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula and no matching requirements. However,
  grant funds cannot supplant existing funding for childhood lead poisoning
  prevention programs or activities. Applicants are encouraged to identify other
  funding sources to support program activities.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Financial assistance is provided for a 12-month budget period (July 1 - June 30)
  with project periods of up to three years subject to the availability of funds and
  satisfactory progress of the grantee.
Reports:
  Quarterly progress reports are required. Financial status reports are required no
  later than 90 days after he end of each specified budget period. A final financial
  status report and final program report will be required no later than 90 days after
  the end of the project. Continuation applications for subsequent budget year
  support will include a progress/performance narrative outlining
  accomplishments and operations for that earlier budget period and a detailed
  budget narrative supporting the budget request.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, these grants are subject to inspection and
  audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the project must be kept readily available for review by
  personnel authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must be
  maintained for a minimum of 3 years after the end of a budget period. If
  questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of an audit, records must
  be retained until completion or resolution of any audit in process or pending
  resolution. Property records must be retained in accordance with PHS Grants
  Policy Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
                                                                                  1313
