  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $33,700,000; FY 08 $28,093,406; and FY 09 est $27,409,189.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $75,000 to $1,700,000.                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2002, 61 grantees representing 44 States, the District of Columbia   
  and 17 city or county health departments received funding to conduct childhood      
  lead poisoning prevention programs. CDC program staff provided technical            
  assistance to State and local health officials and others interested in childhood   
  lead poisoning prevention. In fiscal year 2001, emphasis was placed on carrying     
  out lead poisoning prevention activities related to implementing statewide          
  screening plans, emphasizing screening Medicaid-eligible children,                  
  implementing Medicaid data matching, and establishing childhood blood lead          
  surveillance systems with the capability to report data to CDC. These programs      
  will also utilize funds to facilitate referral of children identified with elevated 
  blood lead levels for medical and environmental intervention, and provide           
  education for parents and health professionals. All 61 funded programs were         
  awarded for fiscal year 2002 to continue lead poisoning prevention activities. In   
  fiscal year 2003, it is anticipated that 42 programs will be funded representing    
  36 States, the District of Columbia and 5 city or county health departments.        
  Additional performance criteria, including an emphasis toward primary               
  prevention interventions, will be the focus of the program in fiscal year 2003. In  
  FY 04 it is anticipated that all funded programs will continue lead poisoning       
  prevention activities.                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Regulations for this program are published under 42 CFR 51b. PHS Grants             
  Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April l,            
  1994. The basic grant administration policies of DHHS and PHS are also              
  applicable.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: Deb Millette, Program Deputy Director, Lead Poisoning              
  Prevention Branch, National Center for Environmental Health, U.S. Centers for       
  Disease Control and Prevention, 4770 Buford Highway, MS F-30, Atlanta, GA           
  30341. Telephone: (770) 488-7177. Email: mdm2@cdc.gov. Grants                       
  Management Contact: Ms. Mildred Garner, Grants Management Branch, U.S.              
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room              
  3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2745. Fax Number: (770) 488-          
  2777.                                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.cdc.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.283, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and               
  Technical Assistance.                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  The first projects to receive financial assistance under this grant program were    
  made late in fiscal year 1990. The awards will continue to State and city/county    
  agencies to develop, expand, or improve childhood lead poisoning prevention         
  programs and statewide surveillance. The awards will be used to strengthen          
  grantees' capacity to perform the three core public health functions (assessment,   
  policy development, and assurance) as they relate to childhood lead poisoning       
  prevention and surveillance. Specifically, these programs will ensure the           
  screening of children at risk of lead exposure; facilitate appropriate referral of  
  children with elevated blood lead levels for medical and environmental              
  interventions; and provide for the education of parents, health care providers,     
  and others concerned about childhood lead poisoning prevention. In addition,        
  programs will develop and implement childhood lead poisoning elimination            
  plans, implement jurisdiction-wide targeted screening plans and establish           
  childhood blood lead surveillance systems.                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applications will be evaluated based upon the applicant's ability to identify       
  populations and communities at high risk and the overall balance of the             
  program's design to address the childhood lead poisoning problem. This requires     
  the development of specific and measurable objectives and a sound operational       
  plan that includes screening of high risk populations, medical and environmental    
  management, lead hazard remediation, and health education and risk reduction        
  activities to appropriately address the problem. Applications also will be          
  evaluated on the ability of the program to carry out childhood lead poisoning       
  prevention program activities utilizing the core public health functions as well as 
  establishing working relations or partnerships with other agencies, organizations   
  or groups that have interest in the prevention of childhood lead poisoning.         
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.202 CAPACITY BUILDING AMONG AMERICAN                                               
INDIAN TRIBES                                                                         
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE REGISTRY,

                                                                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES



1314                                                                            11-08

AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 104(i)(14)(15)and (17) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
  Compensation and Liability Act; 42 U.S.C. 9604; Sections (i)(14)(15), and (17),
  as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To address the Tribal public health issues that result from hazardous substances
  in the environment by: 1) building Tribal environmental health capacity 2)
  addressing health issues from releases of hazardous substances into the
  environment, and 3) develop culturally appropriate health education materials
  and/or vehicles to engage Tribal community members in public health activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To enhance the Tribes ability to collaborate with Agency for Toxic Substance
  and Disease Registry (ATSDR) in conducting public health activities related to
  potential human exposures from the Hanford Nuclear Reservation.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized American Indian Tribal Governments: Coeur d'Alene
  Tribe; Coville Confederated Tribes; Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian
  Reservation; Kalispel Tribe; Kootenai Tribe of Idaho; Nez Perce Tribe; Spokane
  Tribe; Confederated Tribes of the Warm Springs Reservation of Oregon; and
  Yakama Indian Nation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, and the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-87, A-21,
  and A-122 as applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  No preapplication is required. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must use application Form PHS 5161-1. Application packets are
  available from: Ms. Edna Green, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and
  Grants Office, Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine
  Road, Room 3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. By formal agreement, the CDC Grants
  Management Branch will act on behalf of ATSDR on this matter.
Award Procedure:
  The Assistant Administrator, ATSDR has final authority to approve funding of
  applications. When an application is approved for funding, the Grants
  Management Officer, CDC, acting as agent for ATSDR will prepare a Notice of
  Grant Award.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Headquarters Office identified below for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Awards are made for project periods of 1 to 5 years with 12-month budget
  periods. Renewal awards cannot be made beyond the project period without
  competition.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The awards will be made for 12-month budget periods within a project period of
  1 to 5 years. Continuation awards within the project period are made on the
  basis of satisfactory progress and availability of funds.
Reports:
  Semi-annual progress and financial status reports are required no later than 90
  days after the end of each budget period. Final financial status and performance
  reports are required 90 days after the end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24,1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.
Records:
  Detailed and accurate records of travel expenditures, personnel hours and all
  other costs will be retained for 10 years in accordance with EPA's "Superfund
  Financial Management and Recordkeeping Guidance for Federal Agencies."
  Such documents may be required to provide the basis of cost recovery actions or
  other litigation. Additionally, this documentation must be available for audit or
  verification upon the request of the Inspector General.
Account Identification:
  75-8252-0-1-551.
Obligations:
