EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Funded projects include grants to State health departments and universities to      
  conduct health studies that relate to hazardous substances and investigate health   
  conditions prioritized by ATSDR. Examples of funded projects are: 1. A study        
  to examine residential exposure to specific urban air toxicants through multiple    
  pathways and indoor allergens in an urban area and their relationship to asthma     
  prevalence and immune function using nested case- control study. 2. A study to      
  probe the possible synergistic relationships between exposure to chemicals          
  commonly found at hazardous waste sites and likely to contaminate the border        
  area and maternal infections suspected to be risk factors for NTDs.                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  All applications will be reviewed and evaluated based on the following criteria:    
  l. Appropriateness and knowledge of study design; 2. Proposed study; 3.             
  Relationship to initiative; 4. Quality of data collection; 5. Program personnel;    
  and 6. Program budget (not scored).                                                 
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.208 GREAT LAKES HUMAN HEALTH EFFECTS                                               
RESEARCH                                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE REGISTRY,                                   
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act               
  (CERCLA) of 1980, as amended; Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization              
  Act of 1986, Sections 104 (i)(5)(A) and (15), Public Law 99-499; 42 U.S.C.          
                                                                                      
  9604 (i)(5)(A) and (15); Great Lakes Critical Programs Act of 1990, Section

                                                                                      
  106, Subsection 118(e); 33 U.S.C. 1268(e)(3).

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

  To: (1) Build upon and amplify the results from past and on-going research in       
                                                                                      
  the Great Lakes basin; (2) develop information, databases and research

                                                                                      
  methodology that will provide long-term benefit to human health effects research

                                                                                      
  in the Great Lakes basin; (3) develop direction for future health effects research;

                                                                                      
  (4) provide state local health officials: the concerned public and their medical

                                                                                      
  health care professionals; (5) in concert with State and local health offices

                                                                                      
  increase the public awareness regarding the potential health implications of the

                                                                                      
  toxic pollution problem in the Great Lakes basin; and (6) coordinate as

                                                                                      
  necessary with relevant Public Health Service (PHS) research programs and

                                                                                      
  activities, including those of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA), Centers

                                                                                      
  for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), National Institutes of Health (NIH),      
  and the Indian Health Service (IHS), as well as the Environmental Environment       
  Protection Agency (EPA) and State and local health departments, to ameliorate       
  adverse public health impacts of persistent toxic substances in the Great Lakes     
  basin.                                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.

                                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                      
  To conduct research on the impact on human health of fish consumption in the

                                                                                      
  Great Lakes region. This Program of Research will focus on populations which

                                                                                      
  have been identified to have a higher risk of long-term adverse health effects

                                                                                      
  from exposure to contaminants in Great Lakes fish, i.e., Native Americans, sport

                                                                                      
  anglers, urban poor, the elderly, Asian Americans, racial/ethnic minority

                                                                                      
  populations, fetuses, and nursing infants of mothers who consume contaminated

                                                                                      
  Great Lakes fish. Priority areas of research for this program include: 1.

                                                                                      
  Characterizing exposure and determining the profiles and levels of Great Lakes

                                                                                      
  contaminants in biological tissues and fluids in high-risk populations; 2.

                                                                                      
  Identifying sensitive and specific human health endpoints, i.e.,

                                                                                      
  reproductive/developmental, behavioral, endocrinologic, and immunologic             
  effects and correlating them to exposure to Great Lakes contaminants; and 3.        
  Determining the short- and long-term risk(s) of adverse health effects in children  
  which result from parental exposure to Great Lakes contaminants. Proposed           
  projects covering these priority areas should include strategies (risk              
  communication) to inform susceptible populations about the potential human          
  health impact of consuming contaminated fish from the Great Lakes. Based            
  upon research findings, longer term priority areas may include, but are not         
  limited to: 1. Investigating the feasibility of, or establishing, registries and/or 
  surveillance cohorts in the Great Lakes region; and 2. Establishing a chemical      
  mixtures database with emphasis on tissue and blood levels to identify new          
  cohorts, conduct surveillance and health effects studies, and establish registries  
  and/or surveillance cohorts.                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible applicants are the official public health agencies or their bona fide      
  agents or instrumentalities and political subdivisions thereof, which may include   
  State universities, State colleges, State research institutions, State and local    
  health departments, and federally-recognized Indian tribal governments located      
  in the Great Lakes States. This includes Illinois, Indiana, Michigan, Minnesota,    
  Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York and Wisconsin and is consistent with Section           
  106, Subsection 118(e) of the Great Lakes Critical Programs Act of 1990 (33         
  U.S.C. 1268(e)(3)).                                                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
                                                                                11-08 
  Native Americans, Minority Groups, Sport Anglers, Urban Poor, Individuals and
  Families who consume contaminated Great Lakes Fish.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. An environmental impact statement is not required for this program. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E. O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must use application Form 5161-1. Application packets are available
  from: Acquisition and Assistance Branch A, Procurement and Grants Office,
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room
  3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. By formal agreement, the CDC Grants Management
  Branch will act on behalf of ATSDR on this matter.
Award Procedure:
  The Assistant Administrator, ATSDR, has final authority to approve funding of
  applications. When an application is approved for funding, the Grants
  Management Officer, CDC, acting as agent for ATSDR, will prepare a Notice of
  Grant Award.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Headquarters Office identified below for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 60 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Awards are made for project periods of one to three years with 12-month budget
  periods. Renewals awards cannot be made beyond the project period without
  competition.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The awards will be made for 12-month budget periods within a project period of
  one to three years. Continuation awards within the project period are made on
  the basis of satisfactory progress and availability of funds.
Reports:
  Annual progress and financial status reports are required no later than 90 days
  after the end of each budget period. Final financial status and performance
  reports are required 90 days after the end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by HHS and other Federal officials.
Records:
  Detailed and accurate records of travel expenditures, personnel hours and all
  other costs will be retained for ten years in accordance with EPA's "Superfund
  Financial Management and Recordkeeping Guidance for Federal Agencies."
  Such documents may be required to provide the basis of cost recovery actions or
  other litigation. Additionally, this documentation must be available for audit or
  verification upon the request of the Inspector General.
Account Identification:
  75-8252-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,019,706; FY 08 $1,082,730; and FY 09 est $800,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $72,000 to $175,000; $119,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2003, funding was provided for ten competing awards. It is
  anticipated that there will be ten non-competing continuation awards in fiscal
  years 2004 and 2005.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations governing this program are set forth in 45 CFR 92 and 40 CFR 35,
  subpart O. Guidelines are available in the application kit. PHS Grants Policy
  Statement No. 94-50,000 (Revised) April 1, 1994.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Dr. Heraline E. Hicks, Division of Toxicology, Agency for
  Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, 1600 Clifton Road, NE, Mail Stop F-32,
  Atlanta, Georgia 30333. Telephone: (770) 488-3347. Fax: (770) 488-4178. E-
  mail address: HEH2@cdc.gov. Grants Management Contact: Mildred Garner,
  Acquisition and Assistance Branch A, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room 3000,
  Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2745. Fax: (770) 488-2777.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov.
                                                                                1317
