RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  (1) The New York State Angler Cohort Study: Exposure Characterization and            
  Reproductive and Developmental Effects; (2) Great Lakes Fish as a Source of          
  Maternal and Fetal Exposure to Chlorinated Hydrocarbons; (3) An Assessment           
  of a Human Population at Risk: The Impact of Consuming Contaminated Great            
  Lakes Fish on Native American Communities; (4) Cognitive and Motor Effects           
  of PCB Exposure in Older People from the Michigan Fish Eaters Cohort:                
  Emphasis on the Role of Ortho-Substituted Congeners; (5) Contribution of             
  Nursing to Behavioral Changes in Offspring of Mothers Who Consumed Lake              
  Ontario Fish: Two Methodological Approaches; (6) Health Risks from                   
  Consumption of Great Lakes Fish; and (7) Assessing Effects of Human                  
  Reproductive Health of PCB Exposure via Consumption of Great Lakes Fish.             
  Three grants were awarded to State Health Departments for the following              
  projects: (1) PCB and DDE Exposure among Native American Men from                    
  Contaminated Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife; (2) Consortium for the Health            
  Assessment of Great Lakes Sport Fish Consumption; and (3) Michigan Great             
  Lakes Health Studies.                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Applications will be reviewed and evaluated according to the following criteria:     
  Proposed Program; Program Personnel; Applicant Capability; and Program               
  Budget (Not Scored).                                                                 
                                                                                       
93.209 CONTRACEPTION AND INFERTILITY RESEARCH                                          
                                                                                       
LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM                                                                 
   (CIR LRP)                                                                           
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                              
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 288-2, Title IV (National Research              
  Institutes), Part G (Awards and Training), Section 487B (Loan Repayment              
  Program for Research with Respect to Contraception and Infertility), as amended      
  by Public Law 105-392.                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The CIR-LRP is designed to provide an incentive for health professionals to          
  work in areas of reproductive research directly related to contraceptive             
  development and/or infertility diagnosis and treatment by providing assistance in    
  repaying educational loans for individuals. The CIR-LRP will pay up to $35,000       
  of the principal and interest of a participant's educational loans for each year of  
  commitment not to exceed one-half of the remaining loan balance. In addition to      
  the loan repayments, the CIR-LRP may pay participants up to 39 percent of the        
  amount paid to lenders as partial payments on the increased income tax liability     
  caused by the Program's loan repayments. In return for these loan repayments,        
  applicants must agree to commit to a period of obligated service of not less than    
  2 years conducting research with respect to contraception and/or infertility. The    
  long- range objective of the CIR-LRP is to stimulate the commitment of               
                                                                                       
  researchers to sustaining a career focus on contraception and/or infertility

                                                                                       
  research.

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The assistance provided by the CIR-LRP is entirely of a financial nature in the      
  form of loan repayments. The monies provided by this program are restricted to

                                                                                       
  the repayment of pre-existing, qualified loans procured by the participant for

                                                                                       
  educational expenses incurred in the pursuit of undergraduate or graduate            
  degrees.                                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Applicants must be a U.S. citizen (or U.S. national or permanent resident) and a     
  physician, Ph.D.-level scientist, nurse, physician's assistant, graduate student, or 
  postgraduate research fellow training in the health professions. You must            
  commit to conduct contraception and infertility research for 50% of your time        
  (at least 20 hours weekly based on a 40 hour week) for two years and it must be      
  funded by a domestic nonprofit or U.S. Government (Federal, state or local)          
  entity. Also, the research must not be prohibited by Federal law or NIH policy.      
  Complete eligibility information is available at http://www.lrp.nih.gov/about/lrp-   
  contra.htm.                                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Assistance in the form of loan repayments will be made to qualified health           
  professionals (including graduate students) who are participants in the CIR-LRP.     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  In order to be considered for selection into the CIR-LRP, eligible applicants        
  must complete and submit the electronic application materials located at             
  www.lrp.nih.gov, which include: (1) a Loan Verification Form for each loan to        
  be considered for repayment; (2) an institutional statement providing assurance      
  that the applicant will be engaged in employment/training at an NICHD                
  intramural laboratory or in a qualified domestic nonprofit institution (tax-exempt



1318                                                                             11-08

  under 26 USC 501), for not less than two years from the anticipated effective
  date of the NIH Loan Repayment Program Contract between the individual and
  NICHD (this assurance is conducted electronically); and (3) a signed NIH Loan
  Repayment Program Contract by which the applicant agrees to serve the
  obligated minimum period of two years conducting contraception and/or
  infertility research at an NICHD intramural laboratory or in a qualified domestic
  nonprofit institution (tax-exempt under 26 USC 501).
Preapplication Coordination:
  Information regarding the CIR-LRP and the preparation of forms for application
  to the CIR-LRP can be obtained by contacting the CIR-LRP headquarters office
  at the National Institute of Child Health and Human Development, NIH, or via
  the World Wide Web at www.lrp.nih.gov. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Qualified individuals interested in participating in the CIR-LRP should visit the
  NIH Loan Repayment Program Website at www.lrp.nih.gov for all application
  forms and requirements. The application will be evaluated by a Review
  Committee, convened for this purpose by the Division of Scientific Review,
  NICHD, NIH, HHS. In selecting applicants for participation in the CIR-LRP,
  the panel will consider eligibility status, quality of the applicant, and applicant's
  career plan focus. All selections are subject to final approval by the Director,
  NICHD. The NICHD will notify the sponsoring grantee institution and the
  applicant of the outcome of the review.
Award Procedure:
  Once the applicant is selected to participate in the CIR-LRP, the applicant and
  the Director, NICHD, as a designate of the Secretary of Health and Human
  Services, will sign a written binding contract stating the terms and conditions for
  participating in the CIR- LRP. The effective date of the contract will be the date
  it is signed by the Director, NICHD, or the date employment/training begins at
  an NICHD-funded Specialized Contraception or Infertility Research Center,
  whichever is later.
Deadlines:
  Applications can be received at the deadlines established and announced each
  year at http://www.lrp.nih.gov/.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The selection process takes from 6 to 8 months following receipt of application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  A CIR-LRP participant completing the initial 2-year period of obligated service
  conducting research with respect to contraception and/or infertility has an option
  to extend the obligatory period of service on an annual basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The CIR-LRP will pay equal quarterly payments to the lenders. Each payment
  will be made shortly after the end of each full quarter of satisfactory service.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  75-0897-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 est $1,000,000; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 06 the range of financial assistance was between $4,461 and $103,138.
  The average contract cost was $45,619.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, the projected funding level for the Contraception and
  Infertility Research LRP is $1,000,000, with a projected total of 22 contracts.
  The fiscal year 2007 Extramural LRP application period closed on December 15,
  2006, and funding decisions will be made by August 2007. In fiscal year 2008,
  the projected funding level for the Contraception and Infertility Research LRP is
  $1,000,000, with a projected total of 22 contracts.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Notice of Proposed Rulemaking was approved by NIH on September 19,
  2001, and by the Department of Health and Human Services on December 31,
  2001.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Dr. Eugene G. Hayunga, Deputy Director, Office of Extramural Policy, National
  Institute of Child Health and Human Development, NIH, DHHS, Building 61E,
  Rm. 2C01, MSC-7510, Bethesda, MD 20892-7510. Telephone: (301) 435-6856;
  E-mail: ehayunga@mail.nih.gov .
Web Site Address:
