  http://nichd.nih.gov/ .                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  93.280, National Institutes of Health Loan Repayment Program for Clinical            
  Researchers; 93.285, National Institutes of Health Pediatric Research Loan           
  Repayment Program; 93.307, Minority Health and Health Disparities Research;          
  93.220, Clinical Research Loan Repayment Program for Individuals from                
  Disadvantaged Backgrounds; 93.209, Contraception and Infertility Research            
  Loan Repayment Program; 93.162, National Health Service Corps Loan                   
  Repayment Program; 93.923, Disadvantaged Health Professions Faculty Loan             
  Repayment (FLRP) and Minority Faculty Fellowship Program (MFFP); 93.936,             
  National Institutes of Health Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome Research            
  Loan Repayment Program.                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Review criteria for CIR-LRP applications include: (1) Appropriateness of the         
  applicant's previous training and experience as preparation for a career in          
  contraception and infertility research; (2) Suitability of the applicant's proposed  
  clinical research activities in the two-year period to foster a career in            
  contraception and infertility research; (3) Assessment of the applicant's            
  commitment to a research career as reflected by the personal statement of long-      
  term career goals and the plan outlined to achieve those goals; (4) Strength of      
  recommendations attesting to the applicant's potential for a career in               
  contraception and/or infertility research; (5) Availability of appropriate scientific
  colleagues to achieve and/or enhance the applicant's research independence; and      
  (6) Quality and appropriateness of institutional resources and facilities.           
                                                                                       
93.210 TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNANCE PROGRAM: IHS                                             
                                                                                       
COMPACTS/FUNDING AGREEMENTS                                                            
   (Tribal Self Governance)                                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                                
  SERVICES                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as        
  amended.                                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To make financial assistance awards to Indian tribes to enable them to assume        
  programs, functions, services, and activities (PFSA) with respect to which Indian    
  tribes or Indians are primary or significant beneficiaries, administered by the      
  Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) through the Indian Health             
  Service. Such assumptions will be by compact/funding agreements.                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds are to be spent in accordance with Public Law 93-638, as amended,              
  applicable regulations and negotiated compact/funding agreement terms. Per 42        
  CFR 137.167 and 137.168, a self-governance tribe must apply the cost                 
  principles of the applicable OMB Circular, except as modified by: (a) section        
  106(k) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 450j-1), (b) other provisions of law, or (c) any        
  exemptions to applicable OMB circulars subsequently granted by the OMB. No           
  other audit or accounting standards shall be required by the Secretary. Per 42       
  CFR 137.100, pursuant to section 508(h) of the Act 25 U.S.C. 458aaa7(h), a           
  Self-Governance Tribe may retain and spend interest earned on any funds paid         
  under a compact or funding agreement. Per 42 CFR 137.101, a Self-Governance          
  Tribe is under a duty to invest and manage the funds as a prudent investor           
  would, in light of the purpose, terms, distribution requirements, and provisions     
  in the compact or funding agreement and Title V. This duty requires the exercise     
  of reasonable care, skill, and caution, and is to be applied to investments not in   
  isolation but in the context of the investment portfolio and as a part of an overall 
  investment strategy, which should incorporate risk and return Per 42 CFR             
  137.167 and 137.168, a self-governance tribe must apply the cost principles of       
  the applicable OMB Circular, except as modified by: (a) section 106(k) of the        
  Act (25 U.S.C. 450j-1), (b) other provisions of law, or (c) any exemptions to        
  applicable OMB circulars subsequently granted by the OMB. No other audit or          
  accounting standards shall be required by the Secretary. Per 42 CFR 137.100,         
  pursuant to section 508(h) of the Act 25 U.S.C. 458aaa7(h), a Self-Governance        
  Tribe may retain and spend interest earned on any funds paid under a compact or      
  funding agreement. Per 42 CFR 137.101, a Self-Governance Tribe is under a            
  duty to invest and manage the funds as a prudent investor would, in light of the     
  purpose, terms, distribution requirements, and provisions in the compact or          
  funding agreement and Title V. This duty requires the exercise of reasonable         
  care, skill, and caution, and is to be applied to investments not in isolation but in
  the context of the investment portfolio and as a part of an overall investment       
  strategy, which should incorporate risk and return objectives reasonably suitable    
  to the Self-Governance Tribe. In making and implementing investment                  
  decisions, the Self-Governance Tribe has a duty to diversify the investments         
  unless, under the circumstances, it is prudent not to do so. In addition, the Self-  


                                                                                  11-08
  Governance Tribe must: (a) Conform to fundamental fiduciary duties of loyalty
  and impartiality; (b) Act with prudence in deciding whether and how to delegate
  authority and in the selection and supervision of agents; and (c) Incur only costs
  that are reasonable in amount and appropriate to the investment responsibilities
  of the Self-Governance Tribe.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Per 42 CFR 137.18, to be eligible to participate in self-governance, an Indian
  tribe must have: (a) successfully completed the planning phase described in Sec.
  137.20; (b) requested participation in self-governance by resolution or other
  official action by the governing body of each Indian tribe to be served; and (c)
  demonstrated, for three fiscal years, financial stability ad financial management
  capability. Per 42 CFR 137.21, the Indian tribe provides evidence that, for the
  three years prior to participation in self-governance, the Indian tribe has had no
  uncorrected significant and material audit exceptions in the required annual
  audit of the Indian tribe's self-determination contracts or self-governance
  funding agreements with any Federal agency. Per 42 CFR 137.26, an Indian
  tribe does not need to receive a planning or negotiation cooperative agreement to
  be eligible to participate in self-governance. An Indian tribe may use other
  resources to meet the planning requirement and to negotiate. For each fiscal
  year, an additional 50 Indian tribes that meet the eligibility criteria shall be
  entitled to participate in self-governance.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federally-recognized Indian tribes and tribal organizations (as defined in 25
  U.S.C. 450b(l)) will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Per 42 CFR 137.167 and 137.168, a self-governance tribe must apply the cost
  principles of the applicable OMB Circular, except as modified by: (a) section
  106(k) of the Act (25 U.S.C. 450j-1), (b) other provisions of law, or (c) any
  exemptions to applicable OMB circulars subsequently granted by the OMB. No
  other audit or accounting standards shall be required by the Secretary.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  None.
Award Procedure:
  Compacts/funding agreements are awarded to those Indian tribes or
  organizations who have completed negotiations with IHS.
Deadlines:
  There is no deadline for a Tribe entering into a Compact/Funding Agreement.
  Contact the Director, Office of Tribal Self-Governance, listed below for
  additional information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  See 42 CFR 137.410 through 137.445, for regulations governing
  ompacts/funding agreement decisions.
Renewals:
  Per 42 CFR 137.35, upon approval and execution of a self-governance compact,
  the compact remains in effect for so long as permitted by Federal law or until
  determined by mutual written agreement or retrocession or reassumption of all
  PSFAs. Per 42 CFR 137.55, a funding agreement shall have the term mutually
  agreed to by the parties. Absent notification from an Indian tribe that it is
  withdrawing or retroceding the operation of one or more PSFAs identified in the
  funding agreement, the funding agreement shall remain in full force and effect
  until a subsequent funding agreement is executed. Per 42 CFR 137.35, upon
  approval and execution of a self-governance compact, the compact remains in
  effect for so long as permitted by Federal law or until determined by mutual
  written agreement or retrocession or reassumption of all PSFAs. Per 42 CFR
  137.55, a funding agreement shall have the term mutually agreed to by the
  parties. Absent notification from an Indian tribe that it is withdrawing or
  retroceding the operation of one or more PSFAs identified in the funding
  agreement, the funding agreement shall remain in full force and effect until a
  subsequent funding agreement is executed.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Per 42 CFR 137.217, funds provided under compacts, funding agreements, or
  grants made pursuant to Title V may be treated as non-Federal funds for
  purposes of meeting matching or cost participation requirements under any other
  Federal or non-Federal program.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Per 42 CFR 137.76, when a funding agreement requires an annual transfer of
  funding to be made at the beginning of a fiscal year, or requires semi-annual or
  other periodic transfers of funding to be made commencing at the beginning of a
  fiscal year, the first such transfer shall be made not later than 10 days after the
  apportionment of such funds by the OMB to the Department, unless the funding
  agreement provides otherwise. Per 42 CFR 137.77, the Secretary must transfer
  any funds that were not paid in the initial lump sum payment within 10 days
  after distribution methodologies and other decisions regarding payment of those
  funds have been made by the IHS.
Reports:
  Per 42 CFR 137.200, Compacts or funding agreements negotiated between the
                                                                                  1319
