  Secretary and a Self-Governance Tribe must include a provision that requires the    
  Self-Governance Tribe to report on health status and services delivery. These       
  reports may only impose minimal burdens on the Self-Governance Tribes.              
Audits:                                                                               
  Per 42 CFR 137.165, under the provisions of section 506(c) of the Act 25            
  U.S.C. 458aaa5(c), Self-Governance Tribes must undertake annual audits              
  pursuant to the Single Audit Act, 31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq. Per 42 CFR 137.166,        
  exceptions are described in 31 U.S.C. 7502 of the Single Audit Act.                 
Records:                                                                              
  In accordance with 42 CFR - 137.175, Tribes are required to maintain records        
  and provide Federal agency access to those records as provided in 137.177 -         
  137.176, except to the extent that a Self-Governance Tribe specifies otherwise in   
  its compact or funding agreement, the records of the Self-Governance Tribe shall    
  not be considered Federal records for purposes of chapter 5 of title 5, U.S.C. -    
  137.177, after 30 days advance written notice from the Secretary, the Self-         
  Governance Tribe must provide the Secretary with reasonable access to such          
  records to enable the Department to meet its minimum legal recordkeeping            
  system requirements under sections 3101 through 3106 of title 44 U.S.C. -           
  137.178, at the option of a Self-Governance Tribe, patient records may be stored    
  at Federal Records Centers to the same extent and in the same manner as other       
  Department patient records in accordance with section 105(o) of the Act 25          
  U.S.C. 450j(o). - 137.179, a Self-Governance Tribe may make agreements with         
  the Federal Records Centers regarding disclosure and release of the patient         
  records stored pursuant to 137.178. - 137.180, a Tribe must consider the            
  potential application of Tribal, Federal and state law and regulations that may     
  apply to requests for access to Tribal patient records, such as the provisions 42   
  CFR 2.1.2.67 pertaining to records regarding drug and/or alcohol treatment.         
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0390-0-1-551.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Compacts/Funding Agreements) FY 07 $949,982,000; FY 08 $980,000,000;               
  and FY 09 est $1,100,000,000.                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Range $85,000 to $64,200,000; Average $11,300,000.                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2008, there are 73 compact, 94 funding agreements covering           
  tribally operated facilities which include 11 hospitals, 71 health centers, one     
  school health centers, and 189 health stations/village clinics.                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-          
  638, as amended, authorizes compacts/funding agreements. According to section       
  515(c) of the Act 25 U.S.C. 458aaa-16(e), "unless expressly agreed to by the        
  participating Indian tribe in the compact or funding agreement, the participating   
  Indian tribe shall not be subject to any agency circular, policy, manual,           
  guidance, or rule adopted by the Indian Health Service, except for the eligibility  
  provisions of section 105(g) and regulations promulgated under section 517.42       
  CFR 137 applies to compacts/funding agreements.                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: Ms. Hankie Ortiz, Director, Office of Tribal Self-Governance,      
  Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, Suite 240, Rockville, MD 20852.         
  Telephone: (301) 443-7821. Use the same numbers for FTS.                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ihs.gov .                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.211 TELEHEALTH NETWORK GRANTS                                                      
   Telehealth Network Grant Program (TNGP); Telehealth Resource                       
  Center Grant Program (TRCGP); and Licensure Portability Grant Program               
  (LPGP)                                                                              
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Section 330I, Public Health Service Act; Section 330L, Public Health Service        
  Act, 42 U.S.C. 254c-18.                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The TNGP has two provisions: Telehealth Networks (TNGP-TH) grants                   
  demonstrate how telehealth networks improve healthcare services in rural            
  communities. Telehomecare Networks (TNGP-THC) grants fund demonstration             
  or pilot projects for telehomecare, services that may include, but are not limited  
  to, case management by physicians, hospitals, medical clinics, home health          
                                                                                      
1320                                                                            11-08

  agencies, or other health care providers who supervise the care of patients in
  their homes. The TRCGP supports the establishment and development of
  Telehealth Resource Centers (TRC). These centers assist health care
  organizations, health care networks, and health care providers in the
  implementation of cost-effective telehealth programs to serve rural and
  medically underserved areas and populations. The TRCGP is designed to
  leverage the experience of mature programs that have a strong record of
  implementing telehealth services. The LPGP supports State professional
  licensing boards to carry out programs under which licensing boards of various
  States cooperate to develop and implement State policies that will reduce
  statutory and regulatory barriers to telemedicine.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  TNGP - Funds support the use of telehealth (electronic information and
  telecommunications technologies to support and promote long-distance health
  care and ancillary services) in two ways: 1) Telehealth Networks, for improving
  access to health care services; provide a baseline of information for a systematic
  evaluation of telehealth systems; purchase or lease and install equipment; and to
  operate and evaluate the telehealth system. 2) Telehomecare Networks, for
  improving access to health services for patients in their homes and for evaluating
  the cost and effectiveness through provision of clinical care and remote
  monitoring of patients in their own homes using telehealth technologies. Primary
  expenses for telehomecare shall be for personnel costs for provision of services
  and for evaluation. Overall, not more than 40 percent of grant funds may be
  expended for equipment. Not more than 15 percent of grant finds may be
  expended for indirect costs. Grant funds may not be used for purchasing and
  installing telecommunications transmission equipment (e.g., microwave towers,
  satellite dishes, amplifiers, digital switching equipment or laying cable or
  telephone lines) or to acquire real property. Construction costs are allowable
  only for minor renovations related to the installation of equipment. Note: For
  FY 2009, the Agency is developing program guidance to facilitate a competition
  for the 3-year FY 2009 through FY 2011 project period. The FY 2009 program
  guidance may include, under the TNGP provisions, a limited number of
  planning grants.) TRCGP - Funds support the development of regional
  Telehealth Resource Centers (TRCs), which serve as a regional focus for
  supporting telehealth activities throughout their respective regions; and, one
  national Telehealth Resource Center focuses on legal and regulatory telehealth
  issues. Grant funds are used for salaries, equipment, operating, travel expenses,
  or other costs for: providing technical assistance, training and support;
  disseminating information and research findings related to telehealth services;
  promoting effective collaboration among telehealth resource centers and HRSA;
  conducting evaluations to determine the best utilization of telehealth
  technologies to meet health care needs; promoting the integration of the
  technologies used in clinical information systems with other telehealth
  technologies; fostering the use of telehealth technologies to effectively provide
  healthcare information and education for health care providers and consumers;
  and, implementing special projects that involve collaboration among TRCs to
  advance the field of telehealth. Grant funds are not used for: acquiring real
  property, equipment costs of more than 40 percent of total grant funds, for
  equipment or transmission costs not directly related to the grant purposes, to
  purchase or install general purpose voice telephone systems, construction costs,
  indirect costs exceeding 15 percent of total grant funds. LPGP - Grant funds are
  used for salaries, equipment, software development, operating, or other costs
  associated with developing legislative, administrative, and technical projects to
  address licensure barriers that hinder the practice of telemedicine across state
  lines. Grant funds may also be used for activities involving significant expansion
  of existing state agreements for cross-state recognition of professional licenses to
  other states.
Applicant Eligibility:
  TNGP - A grantee must be a nonprofit or public entity that will provide services
  through a telehealth network (TNGP-TH) to rural communities or through a
  telehomecare network (TNGP-THC) to patients in their homes located in either
  urban underserved or rural communities. Telehomecare network grantees should
  have demonstrated experience in providing telehomecare services. For both
  telehealth networks and telehomecare networks, proof of non-profit status is
  required. Each entity participating in the network may be a nonprofit or for-
  profit entity. Faith-based and community based organizations are eligible under
  the TNGP. TRCGP - A grantee must be a public or private nonprofit
  organization. Faith-based and community based organizations are eligible to
  apply. Services may be provided to rural or urban communities. LPGP - A
  grantee must be a State professional licensing board, or a national organization
  of professional licensing boards that provide services to state licensing boards.
  Note: American Indian and/or Alaska Native Tribal Organizations are eligible
  provided those organizations meet the eligibility requirements above.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  TNGP - Health care providers in rural areas, in medically underserved areas, in
  frontier communities, and for medically underserved populations. TNGP-TH
  grantees include in the network at least two (2) of the following entities (at least
  one (1) of which shall be a community-based health care provider: (a)
