  provided for less than $1/person/year in TNGP program expenditures. Specialty       
  services include mental health, diabetes, cardiology, dermatology, home health      
  care and monitoring, pediatrics, radiology and many other specialties based on      
  the needs of the particular community where the project is located. For further     
  information on services and activities, see the OAT Grantee Directory at            
  http://telehealth.hrsa.gov/. The TNGP has shown home care can improve               
  efficiency by reducing nurse travel time, and individual grantees have reported     
  savings in a variety of small scale studies across different applications. During   
  the three year grant cycle FY 2003 - FY 2005, 7 grantees estimated that             
  telehome care services saved over $77,000 in salary and travel costs associated     
  with the reduced need for nurses to travel. In addition, several TNGP grantees      
  have demonstrated in small scale studies the efficiency of their telehealth         
  programs in producing tangible savings. The University of Tennessee recently        
  reported a 56 percent decrease in emergency room (ER) visits per month for its      
  telehealth diabetes program patients and a 38 percent decrease in spending on       
  clinic visits per month for telehealth patients. The University of Arkansas has     
  shown that by tracking patient outcomes through its TNGP grant, it has saved        
  the Arkansas Medicaid Program over $14 million in emergency transports and          
  medical costs by conducting telemedicine consults and assessments on high-risk      
  obstetrics patients in rural areas. The Ohio Tele-mental Health Program reports     
  that of the 709 telecommunication events recorded since the inception of the        
  grant (clinicalconsultation,management,psychiatricservicesandeducation--48 of       
  which were individual direct service encounters) have yielded a savings of          
  $213,530 in saved mileage and saved staff "downtime." Individual programs           
  have reported a significant impact of the TNGP program on the sustainability of     
  services. Programs in Arkansas, Missouri, Kentucky, and Arizona report a            
  significant impact on their obtaining ongoing state funding . For example, the      
  program in Arkansas reports that its demonstrable success significantly             
  contributed to obtaining Medicaid reimbursement for the telehealth services, and    
  the provision of these services resulted in measurable savings. The Kentucky        
  Telehealth Network program has documented the extensive leveraging of TNGP          
  dollars (for every dollar invested through the HRSA telehealth programs, the        
  program has been able to generate almost $7 dollars, primarily from the             
  telehealth network sites themselves and the state.) Further, the TNGP is            
  contributing to the ability of grantees to gain additional state and local support. 
  The TNGP funded Kentucky Telehealth Network Program Kentucky has                    
  worked with the state legislature to create a statewide telehealth program, as has  
  Missouri and Arizona. The University of Tennessee program reports that for          
  every dollar provided by OAT grants, the program has been able to raise $2, in      
  large part through service contracts with state and local organizations, such as    
  the Tennessee Department of Children and Family Services, the Tennessee             
  Department of Health, Shelby County government, and the like.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and    
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,         
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as           
  applicable.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Monica Cowan, Project Officer, Office for the Advancement of Telehealth,            
  Office of Health Information Technology, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 7C-26,             
  Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-0076.                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.

  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)

  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.

                                                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  The TNGP - University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Telehealth for Kids         
  in Delta Schools (Telehealth KIDS), Little Rock, AR: The project's purpose is to    
  work with local healthcare providers, facilities, parents and school staff to       
  develop services and protocols that will complement and support local providers,    
  strengthen existing referral patterns, and emphasize services that are currently    
  unavailable in Lee County. The project will focus on children who currently         
  have no doctor or who are currently unable to access available health care          
  services due to poverty, lack of transportation, or complicating family issues.     
  Specific needs identified by Lee County will target Asthma, Diabetes,               
  Behavioral, and General Pediatric Health issues. The project links Whitten          
  Elementary School and Lee High School into the existing network. Telehealth         
  KIDS will use telehealth technology and Telehomecare monitoring to improve          
  access and clinical outcomes, and overall health of Lee County Students.            
  Telehealth KIDS will install interactive video systems. Desktop cameras will be     
  purchased for behavioral consulting by health professionals. Interactive            
  education units will be used at Lee County Health Unit and Lee High School.         
  Telehomecare monitoring will be used for students suffering from asthma and         
  diabetes. Home Health Monitors will be distributed to students' homes. Lee



1322                                                                            11-08

  County Schools are currently connected by T1 lines. The University of
  Arkansas for Medical Sciences competed and received funding in FY 2006 and
  FY 2007, and has been operational since 1995. Expected outcomes include
  reduction of hospitalization and emergency room visits, measuring the impact of
  telehealth program on controlling blood glucose levels in diabetic patients,
  collecting data to measure clear outcomes, including improving access for
  individuals that otherwise would not have such access, productivity, efficiency,
  dollars saved and quality of services. The project is developing a detailed
  evaluation and data plan that addresses the required performance measures. The
  TRCGP - The Great Plains Telehealth Resource and Assistance Center (TRAC)
  began in October of 2006 and is a partnership of Avera Health, South Dakota;
  The Evangelical Lutheran Good Samaritan Society, South Dakota; North Dakota
  State University Telepharmacy Network, North Dakota; Saint Elizabeth Health
  System, Nebraska; and University of Minnesota Telehealth Network, Minnesota.
  The Great Plains TRAC serves the five states of South Dakota, North Dakota,
  Minnesota, Iowa and Nebraska. Assistance will also be provided to other
  entities in other locations as requested or needed. This Regional TRC will
  increase telehealth utilization among rural and frontier health care providers by
  breaking down both geographic and experiential barriers. This center will serve
  telehealth programs in this region and nationally by focusing on individualized
  coaching services; providing information, assistance and direction as requested
  and needed; an on-line toolbox; and a regional telehealth conference. Services
  provided include: general one-to-one assistance and direction in topics such as
  telehealth policies/procedures, licensure, scheduling, evaluation, research, and
  others; on-line resource toolbox; annual regional conference; identify key
  regional issues; in general, help rural facilities acquire the skills/expertise to
  implement telehealth programs. The project outcomes are as follows: 1) To
  increase the knowledge of applications, practices and research findings relating
  to telehealth; 2) To increase the quality and quantity of standards-based
  information regarding the best utilization of telehealth technologies; 3) To
  increase the number of contacts initiated by providers; 4) To improve the skill
  level of key staff members to conceptualize, plan, implement and evaluate
  telehealth programs; and, 5) To increase the number of providers that utilize
  telehealth technology.
  The LPGP - Two grantees are developing projects to support State professional
  licensing boards to carry out programs under which various States will cooperate
  to develop and implement State policies that will reduce statutory and regulatory
  barriers to telemedicine across state boundaries. The grantees are focusing on
  projects that will reduce impediments to the practice of telemedicine across state
  lines by physicians and nurses, respectively. The funded projects are to build on
  the first year of efforts to develop national models for addressing barriers to
  adoption of the Nurse Licensure Compact and implement model agreements to
  expedite the licensure process and eliminate redundancies associated with
  applying for physician licenses in multiple jurisdictions. The grants are intended
  to result in an expansion of existing state agreements for cross-state recognition
  of professional licenses.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For FY 2008, non-competing continuation funding for Telehealth grantees will
  be based upon an evaluation of each of the grantee's first two years of
  performance, the third year program design, and expenditure justifications. For
  FY 2009, the Agency is developing program guidance to facilitate a competition
  for the 3-year FY 2009 through FY 2011 project period. (Note: The FY 2009
  program guidance may include, under the TNGP provisions, a limited number of
  planning grants).
93.212 CHIROPRACTIC DEMONSTRATION PROJECT
GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 755(b)(3), 42 U.S.C. 294e, as
  amended; Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998; Public Law
  105-392.
OBJECTIVES:
  Grants are awarded to carry out demonstration projects in which chiropractors
  and physicians collaborate to identify and provide effective treatment for spinal
  and lower-back conditions. The project requirements include: (1) The project
  must address the identification and treatment of spinal and/or lower-back
  conditions; (2) the project must be founded on collaborative efforts between
  chiropractors and allopathic or osteopathic physicians; (3) each project must
  include a strong research protocol which will result in a significant expansion of
  documented research in the area addressed and which is suitable for publication
  in referred health professions journals, including research oriented publications;
  (4) the project must include an explicit strategy for case-finding and a strategy
  for making direct comparisons to other forms of treatment. The results must be
  generalizable to patients cared for in a clinical practice addressing spinal and/or
  lower-back conditions; and (5) whenever feasible, minorities and women should
