  be included in study populations so that research findings can be of benefit to all  
  persons at risk of the disease, disorder, or condition under study.                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grant and contract funds may be used for personnel, equipment, supplies,             
  domestic travel, consultants and guest lecturers, rental of space, renovations, and  
  other costs directly related to the project as described in the approved             
  application. Program funds may not be used for patient care costs, construction      
  of facilities, acquisition of land, foreign travel, or support of students, including
  fellowships, stipends, tuition, fees, or travel allowances.                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  To be eligible for a Chiropractic Demonstration Project, the applicant shall be: a   
  health professions school, an academic health center, or public or private           
  nonprofit accredited schools of chiropractic.                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Health professionals will benefit.                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued               
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be       
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.                              
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from

  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov website at www.grants.gov to both find

  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be

                                                                                       
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                   
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health              
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final

  selections for awards.                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from the           
  Headquarters Office.                                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                             
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 5 to 6 months from receipt of application.                                      
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  At the end of the initial project period, competing continuation applications may

                                                                                       
  be submitted for up to five years of support.

                                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Project periods are for 5 years.                                                     
Reports:                                                                               
  The Uniform Progress Report (UPR) must be submitted annually. Financial              
  status reports are required within 90 days after the end of each budget period. A    
  final progress report and financial status report must be submitted within 90        
  days after the end of the project period.                                            
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of          
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going             
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely    
  resolved.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $1,802,228; FY 08 $1,817,438; and FY 09 est $1,817,438.                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $234,633 to $798,345; $446,242.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In FY 07 and FY08, four continuation awards were be made. In FY 09, 4 new            
  awards are anticipated.                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and     
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,          
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as            
  applicable.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
                                                                                  11-08
  Jerald Katzoff, Program Officer, Division of Medicine and Dentistry, Bureau of
  Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn
  Building, Room 9A-21, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:
  (301) 443-4443.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funded projects include research projects including interdisciplinary evaluation
  of elderly back pain treatment outcomes by medical doctors and chiropractors;
  chiropractic treatment and exercise for geriatric patients with low back pain; and
  chiropractic treatment and exercise for geriatric patients with neck pain.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All applications will be evaluated by an Objective Review Committee to
  determine the extent to which the applicant documents the following criteria: (1)
  Need; (2) Response; (3) Evaluative Measures; (4) Impact; (5)
  Resources/Capabilities; and (6) Support Requested.
93.213 RESEARCH AND TRAINING IN
COMPLEMENTARY AND ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE
   (National Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 222 and 404E; Public Law 103-43, 42
  U.S.C. 217a and 283g, as amended; Public Law 92- 463, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To evaluate alternative, complementary, or unconventional medical treatments.
  The following objectives support this goal: (1) coordinate and facilitate the
  investigation of alternative medical practices through peer-reviewed grant
  solicitations; (2) interface with the Center's National Advisory Council; (3)
  conduct technology assessment conferences for the purpose of establishing areas
  of Clinical and Pre-clinical research that need to be further developed within
  Alternative Medicine; (4) maintain a comprehensive bibliographic data base in
  conjunction with the National Library of Medicine; (5) develop and continue
  contacts with international programs in complementary and alternative medicine
  (CAM); and (6) establish an intra- and extra-mural clinical research fellowship
  program focusing on broad areas of clinical, scientific, and administrative
  training in CAM. The major purpose of all of these programs is to foster
  collaborations between practitioners of CAM and individuals knowledgeable in
  biomedical research. The National Center for Complementary and Alternative
  Medicine (NCCAM) regularly examines and redefines its research priorities.
  Priorities are set to fill gaps in the research portfolio, capitalize on emerging
  opportunities, and leverage resources. Using a formal semi-annual planning
  process, NCCAM considers the existing research portfolio, NCCAM's 5-year
  strategic plan, plans of other NIH institutes and centers, recommendations of the
  National Advisory Council for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, as
  well as input from expert panels and other stakeholders to set its research
  priorities. Mechanisms of Action: The research portfolio will have an increased
  emphasis on studies of the mechanisms underlying complementary and
  alternative medicine (CAM) approaches. The reasons for this emphasis are: (1)
  elucidating the underlying mechanisms of action of CAM therapies will
  facilitate their integration into conventional medical care; and (2) mechanistic
  studies of CAM therapies will improve the identification of key study endpoints
  and thus strengthen the design of CAM clinical trials. Exploratory Clinical
  Studies and Phase I and II Clinical Trials: The research portfolio will have an
  increased emphasis on exploratory, Phase I and Phase II studies of CAM. The
  objectives of this focus are to: (1) determine active ingredients, pharmacology,
  bioavailability, and optimal dosing; (2) obtain preliminary data on safety and
  efficacy; and (3) conduct exploratory clinical studies (e.g., case control,
  observational, qualitative and experimental studies) to elucidate mechanisms
  and test models. The outcomes of these studies will form the basis for designing
  larger trials with an enhanced ability to detect a meaningful positive effect, if
  any, of the CAM modality under study. Research areas currently of special
  interest are listed below: (1) anxiety and depression--basic and preclinical
  research on CAM approaches; (2) cardiovascular diseases--preclinical and early
  phase clinical studies of CAM approaches to secondary prevention and
  management of hypertension, atherosclerosis, and congestive heart failure; (3)
  Eehnomedicine-identification, description, and study of potentially valuable,
  vanishing traditional or indigenous health care practices in geographic areas
                                                                                  1323
