  where there is little preservation; (4) immune modulation/enhancement-basic         
  and preclinical studies of CAM approaches that may enhance or inhibit immune        
  responses, including inflammation; (5) inflammatory bowel disease and irritable     
  bowel syndrome-CAM approaches to these conditions; (6) insomnia-CAM                 
  approaches to primary and secondary insomnia; (7) liver-CAM approaches to           
  liver diseases; (8) obesity/metabolic syndrome-CAM modalities, particularly         
  mind-body treatments, as adjuvant therapies, especially with respect to the         
  metabolic syndrome and type 2 diabetes; 9) respiratory diseases-CAM                 
  approaches                                                                          
  topreventionandtreatmentofinfectiousrespiratory diseases; and (10) NCCAM            
  continues to be highly interested in research on minority and gender health and     
  on health disparities. NCCAM continues to accept applications in areas not          
  listed. All investigators are urged to discuss potential applications with the      
  relevant NCCAM Program Officer.                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Training.                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Project grants and cooperative agreements may be made to eligible institutions      
  for the support of various projects in CAM. The grants may be used for              
  personnel, consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel, patient costs, animals    
  miscellaneous items, and indirect costs. For the individual post-doctoral training  
  grant, support is for salary of the trainee, tuition and fees, self-only health     
  insurance, research supplies, equipment, travel to scientific meetings, and related 
  items.                                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The awardee will be either a university, college, hospital, public agency,          
  nonprofit research institution, or for-profit organization that submits an          
  application and receives a grant or cooperative agreement for support of research   
  by a named principal investigator.                                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in        
  biomedical research.                                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  For-profit organizations costs are determined by in accordance with 48 CFR,         
  Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. Costs will be determined in    
  accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR 74, Subpart Q.                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  No preapplication is required. This program is excluded from coverage under         
  E.O. 12372.                                                                         
Application Procedure:                                                                
  NIH is in the process of converting to SF424 (Research and Related (R&R))           
  forms and electronic submission through Grants.gov. Information on this plan        
  and on registering for electronic submission is available at                        
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-05-067.html . Updates        
  regarding the transition process are at http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt/.      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Award Procedure: All accepted applications are evaluated for scientific and         
  technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer review panel and by a national    
  advisory council or board. All applications receiving a priority score ranging      
  from the best (100) to worst (500) compete for available funds based on             
  scientific merit, program relevance, and program balance and are made annually.     
  Initial award provides funds for the first budget period (usually 12 months) and    
  Notice of Grant Award (Form PHS 1533) indicates support recommended for             
  remainder of project period, allocation of Federal funds by budget categories,      
  and special conditions, if any.                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  New Grants and Cooperative Agreements: February 1, June 1, and October 1.           
  Renewals and Supplements: March 1, July 1, and November 1. Postdoctoral             
  Training, April 5, August 5, and December 5.                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Grants and Cooperation Agreement: Approximately 10 months. Training: For 9          
  months.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                              
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects  
  of the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the         
  Office. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available on      
  the NIH homepage www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html .                   
Renewals:                                                                             
  Applications submitted for renewal are reviewed and selected for funding on a       
  competitive basis.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Grants and cooperative agreements: Average 3 to 4 years, maximum of 5 years         
  with prior approval before submission. Renewals may be awarded for additional       
  periods of up to 5 years (with prior approval before submission) based on           
  competitive peer review. Funds are provided through Monthly Demand Payment          
  System or an Electronic Transfer System.                                            
Reports:                                                                              
  Progress reports are required each year. Annual financial status report is required 


1324                                                                            11-08

  90 days after the end of the budget period. Special reports may be requested by
  the DHHS. Terminal reports are required 6 months after the end of the project.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative
  agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal
  officials.
Records:
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report
  period.
Account Identification:
  75-0896-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $85,484,000; FY 08 est $85,538,000; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $100,000 to $1,100,000 for grants; $293,000 average. ($26,000-$233,000 for
  training.)
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is estimated that 326 grants will be funded in fiscal year 2007 and 351 grants
  in fiscal year 2008. Currently, five developmental centers are supported that
  incorporate close collaborations between CAM and conventional institutions.
  One of these developmental centers is at a school of osteopathic medicine, one at
  a school of chiropratic medicine, and one at a school of traditional chinese
  medicine (e.g., acupuncture). In addition, developmental centers are funded to
  study mind/body medicine and botanical products. NCCAM, in collaboration
  with the NIH Office of Dietary Supplements, supports seven Centers for Dietary
  Supplements Research. Investigators at these seven centers are investigating the
  role, if any, of dietary supplements to treat and/or prevent age related diseases,
  cardiovascular disease including metabolic syndrome, and women's health
  issues. Several large clinical trials were in progress including: Hypericum for
  Minor Depression; Ginkgo biloba for Preventing Dementia; Saw Palmento for
  benign prostatic hyperplasgia; EDTA Chelation therapy for Coronary Artery
  Disease; Acupuncture to treat chronic back pain; and Soy supplements to treat
  atherosclerosis. Numerous investigator-initiated research grants were studying
  the breath of CAM modalities including clinical and basic studies of
  acupuncture, botanicals, chiropractic, homeopathy, massage therapy,
  naturopathy, Reiki, and Tai Chi to name a few.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Grants will be available under the authority of and administered in accordance
  with the PHS Grants Policy Statement and Federal regulations at 42 CFR 52 and
  42 U.S.C. 241.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Division of Extramural Research and Training, National Center for
  Complementary and Alternative Medicine, National Institutes of Health,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 6707 Democracy Blvd. Suite 401,
  Bethesda, MD 20892-5475. Telephone: (301) 496-4792 Fax: (301) 402-4741.
Web Site Address:
  http://nccam.nih.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Centers program is supporting a variety of on-going studies including the
  use of Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction, a meditative approach, to help
  reduce stress and better manage emotions, in people with early stage HIV.
  Specifically, the effects of meditation on the immune system will be studied to
  see if meditation can help slow disease progression and delay the need for
  antiretroviral treatment. Center investigators will evaluate whether certain
  traditional Chinese medicines and an electrical acupuncture technique can be
  used to prevent addiction relapse and craving for alcohol and drugs of abuse.
  They will also seek to determine the physiological mechanisms by which these
  Chinese medical treatments affect addictive behavior. Several centers will be
  exploring the mechanisms of action of acupuncture using both animal models
  and human studies employing state-of-the-art real-time imaging technology.
  Other studies will examine the potential use of antioxidant CAM therapies for
  asthma. Researchers will investigate whether these antioxidant treatments can
  minimize airway inflammation in response to common triggers of asthma, such
  as ozone or inhaled allergens. Also explored will be the use of mushroom
  extracts to enhance the immune system's response to tumors, and the healing
  power of "placebo" particularly strategies to maximize placebo's benefits,
  improve clinical trial design, and gain insight into mechanisms underlying mind-
  body medicine. Finally, center investigators will study the effects of osteopathic
