  manipulation on the musculoskeletal system, lymphatic fluid flow, and reduction    
  of pain from back and neck strain. NCCAM is supporting several large,              
  multisite trials designed to provide critical information for patients and         
  providers. (1) Ginkgo Evaluation on Memory Study. This is a 10-year primary        
  prevention trial testing whether Ginkgo biloba prevents the onset of Alzheimers    
  Disease or other types of Dementia. (2) Trial to Assess Chelation Therapy. This    
  is a 8-year secondary prevention trial testing whether EDTA chelation therapy      
  and/or high-dose vitamins prevent the onset of a subsequent MI in people with      
  coronary artery disease. (3) Acupuncture for Low Back Pain - a 5-year treatment    
  trial comparing individualized acupuncture treatments and standardized             
  acupuncture treatments to both sham controls and usual conventional care in        
  people who have had low back pain for at least three months.                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The         
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the        
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the        
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;  
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed   
  project; (6) the relevance and importance to the announced program objectives;     
  and (7) the interfacing of conventional researchers and technology with            
  unconventional/alternative clinicians for the purpose of providing clinical and    
  scientific collaborations when and where appropriate.                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.217 FAMILY PLANNING-SERVICES

                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                            
  SERVICES                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title X, Section 1001, 42 U.S.C. 300;       
  Family Planning Services and Population Research Act of 1970, Section 6(c),        
  Public Law 91-572, 84 Stat. 1506, as amended; Family Planning and Population       
  Research Act of 1975, Title II, Sections 204(a) and (b), Public Law 94-63, 89      
  Stat. 307-308; Public Health Service Extension Act, Section 1(a)(1), Public Law    
  95-613, 92 Stat. 3093; Appropriation Act of 1991, Public Law 101-517.              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide educational, counseling, comprehensive medical and social services      
  necessary to enable individuals to freely determine the number and spacing of      
  their children, and by so doing helping to reduce maternal and infant mortality,   
  promote the health of mothers, families and children.                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grants must be used for family planning services including contraceptive           
  services, infertility services and special services to adolescents. Family planning
  services include information on all medically approved methods of contraception    
  including natural family planning methods; counseling services, physical           
  examinations including cancer detection and laboratory tests; STD and HIV          
  prevention education, screening and referral; contraceptive supplies, and          
  periodic follow-up examinations. Infertility services include assessment,          
  information, education, and arrangements for referral if necessary. Special        
  services to adolescents include in-depth information, education including          
  abstinence education counseling, and referral to and from other social and         
  medical service agencies, and such ancillary services as are necessary to          
  facilitate clinic attendance for adolescents who need contraceptive services.      
  These family planning services must be available without coercion and with         
  respect for the privacy, dignity, social and religious beliefs of the individuals  
  being served. To the extent possible, entities which receive grants under this     
  subsection shall encourage family participation in projects assisted under this    
  subsection. Funds may not be used in programs where abortion is a method of        
  family planning. Funds may not be used for purchase or construction of             
  buildings; salaries of personnel paid from other Federal grant funds; and certain  
  other miscellaneous items as specified in the regulations. Priority in the         
  provision of services will be given to persons from low-income families.           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Any public (including city, county, local, regional, or State government) entity   
  or nonprofit private entity located in a State (including the District of Columbia,
  Puerto Rico, Guam, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,               
  American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, the        
  Republic of Marshall Islands and the Republic of Palau) is eligible to apply for a 
  grant. Faith based organizations are eligible to apply.                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Persons who desire family planning services and who would not otherwise have       
  access to them. Priority to be given to persons from low-income families.          
  Individuals from other than low-income families will be charged a fee in           
  accordance with an established fee schedule although inability to pay must not     
  be a deterrent to services.                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  A nonprofit private entity must provide evidence of its nonprofit status.          


                                                                                11-08
  Allowability of costs charged to the grant will be determined in accordance with
  the following cost principles: OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational
  institutions, OMB Circular No. A-87 for state and local governments, and OMB
  Circular No. A-122 for non-profit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. This program is subject to the Public
  Health Systems Reporting Requirements.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR 74
  (for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit
  organizations), and 45 CFR 92 (for state and local governments) must be used
  for this program. All other applicants should submit completed Form OPHS-
  1,(Revised 6/2001), U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Public
  Health Service Grant Application, documenting the need for the grant and the
  proposed amount of the grant. The Regional Health Administrator has approval
  authority for the program. Contact should be made with the appropriate
  Regional Health Administrator (see name/address in Appendix IV) to obtain the
  Application Kit. This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR 74, 45
  CFR 92, as well as OMB Circular No. A-102 (Administrative Guidelines for
  state and local governments) and OMB Circular No. A-110 (Administrative
  Guidelines for Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit
  Organizations).
Award Procedure:
  Following approval by the Regional Health Administrator, the Office of Grants
  Management, OPHS prepares a Notice of Grant Award, secures necessary
  clearances and approval signatures, issues the Notice of Grant Award, enters the
  approved award in the grant payment process, and provides notification of grant
  approval to the public.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Regional Offices for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 270 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Projects are generally given commitments of funding for 3 to 5 years. Projects
  must submit a continuation application each non-competitive year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. The amount of any award under Title X
  shall be determined on the basis of the estimate necessary for project
  performance, provided, however, that the Federal support or grant for a Family
  Planning Services Project may not be for less than 90 percent (with exceptions)
  nor equal 100 percent of the total cost of the project.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Usually 1 year.
Reports:
  Annual expenditure and progress reports. All projects must comply with the
  requirements of the FPAR, and special reports as requested.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A - 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A - 133.
Records:
  HHS and the Controller General of the United States or any of their authorized
  representatives, shall have the right of access to any books, documents, papers or
  other records of a grantee, subgrantee, contractor, or subcontractor, which are
  pertinent to the HHS grant, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts and
  transcripts. In accordance with 45 CFR, Part 74.53, and 45 CFR, Part 92,
  grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records 3 years after the end
  of a budget period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action
  involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period,
  the records shall be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all
  issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year period,
  whichever is later.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $253,643,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $47,791 to $16,962,215; $2,519,960.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
                                                                                  1325
