  None.                                                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  42 CFR 59, 45 CFR 74, 45 CFR 92, PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS                     
  Publication No. (OASH) 94- 50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994.                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  Regional Health Administrator, DHHS Regional Offices (See Appendix IV of               
  the Catalog for addresses).                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Program Contact: Ms. Susan Moskosky, Director, Office of Family Planning,              
  Office of Population Affairs, Department of Health and Human Services, 1101            
  Wootton Parkway, Suite 700, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (240) 453-                 
  2888. Grants Management Contact: Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Grants            
  Management, Office of Public Health and Science, Department of Health and              
  Human Services, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20853.                  
  Telephone: (240) 453-8822.                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.opa.osophs.dhhs.gov.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  93.260, Family Planning_Personnel Training; 93.974, Family Planning_Service            
  Delivery Improvement Research Grants.                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  Projects include: (1) A State Health Department which subcontracts to service          
  providers throughout an entire State; and (2) a service provider to serve multi-       
  counties or a smaller geographic area.                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  Proposals will be evaluated in terms of which will best promote the purposes of        
  the authorizing legislation, taking into account: (1) the number of patients to be     
  served, especially low-income patients; (2) local need; (3) relative need of the       
  applicant; (4) applicant's ability to make rapid and effective use of Federal          
  assistance; (5) adequacy of the applicant's facilities and staff; (6) availability and 
  commitment of nonfederal resources within the community; and (7) compliance            
  with pertinent regulations and guidelines.                                             
                                                                                         
93.220 CLINICAL RESEARCH LOAN REPAYMENT                                                  
                                                                                         
PROGRAM FOR INDIVIDUALS FROM DISADVANTAGED                                               
BACKGROUNDS                                                                              
   (NIH Clinical Research Loan Repayment Program; CR LRP)                                
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                                
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Public Health Service Act, Title IV, Subtitle D, Part G, Section 1631, Public          
  Law 103-43, 107 Stat. 185, 42 U.S.C. 288-5, Public Law 105-392.                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To recruit and retain health professionals from disadvantaged backgrounds to           
  conduct clinical research at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by providing      
  for the repayment of educational loans for participants with substantial amounts       
  of educational debt relative to income, who agree by written contract to engage        
  in clinical research as employees of the NIH for a minimum two-year period.            
                                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                         
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  To provide repayment of extant educational loans incurred by health                    
  professionals engaged, as employees of the NIH, in clinical research. Recipients       
  must agree by written contract to engage in such research, initially, for a            
  minimum of 2 years; individuals who have conflicting service obligations may           
  not participate in this program until those obligations are satisfied or have been     
  deferred during the period of program service. One-year continuation contracts         
  are available, dependent upon the level of debt and continued involvement in           
  clinical research. Maximum program benefit is $35,000 per year in loan                 
                                                                                         
  repayments and $13,650 per year in Federal tax reimbursements. Recipients

                                                                                         
  must have qualified educational debt in excess of 20 percent of their annual

                                                                                         
  salary, which is referred to as their "debt threshold." An amount equal to half of

                                                                                         
  this "debt threshold" will not be repaid by NIH and must be paid by the Program

                                                                                         
  participants.

                                                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  Eligible applicants must: (1) Be a citizen, national, or permanent resident of the     
  United States; (2) possess a M.D., Ph.D., D.O., D.D.S., D.M.D., D.V.M.,                
  D.P.M., A.D.N., B.S.N., or equivalent degree; or hold the position of Physician

                                                                                         
  Assistant; (3) come from a disadvantaged background as determined by the               
  Secretary of Health and Human Services; (4) have qualified educational debt,           
  which results from governmental or commercial loans obtained to support their          
  undergraduate and/or graduate education, in excess of 20 percent of their annual       
  NIH salary on the program eligibility date; (5) be appointed under any temporary       
  or permanent employment mechanism in the Intramural Research Program of the            
  NIH, so long as their employment has the potential to last a minimum of 2 years;       
  (6) are not eligible to participate in the CR-LRP if they have an existing service     
  obligation to Federal, State, or other entities, until such obligation is discharged

1326                                                                               11-08

  or unless it is deferred during the period of program service; (7) submit an
  application to participate in the CR-LRP; and (8) sign and submit to the
  Secretary of Health and Human Services, at the time of agreeing to accept
  repayment of educational loans, a contract agreeing to engage in clinical
  research as an employee of the NIH for a minimum of 2 years.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Clinical researchers from disadvantaged backgrounds who have unpaid
  educational loans will benefit from this program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must submit documentation of the following, as appropriate: (1)
  Copies of loan applications and agreements from governmental or commercial
  educational loans which are being submitted for repayment; (2) copies of the
  standard student budget from each school attended during period when debt was
  incurred; (3) copies of recommendations, special skills, certifications, or other
  copies of loan documentation; (4) certification from the school(s) attended that
  the applicant qualified for participation in an educational assistance program for
  individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds which are sponsored by the
  Secretary of Health and Human Services or self-certification describing
  circumstances which qualify him/her under the Secretary's definition of an
  individual from a disadvantaged background; and (5) other documentation as
  may be required by law.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must access and submit the Loan Repayment Program application
  electronically via the website www.lrp.nih.gov; seek qualified employment with
  a sponsoring Institute or Center (IC) of the NIH. Once an application has been
  submitted, the Loan Repayment Committee reviews it at a regularly scheduled
  review meeting and a determination of loan repayment recipients is made.
Award Procedure:
  The NIH Loan Repayment Committee (LRC) will review, rank, and approve or
  disapprove applications recommended for program participation by each
  Institute or Center (IC). Applications approved for program participation by the
  LRC will be notified by the Program Director. The Secretary, or his designee,
  will sign the service contract of program participants, provide a copy to the
  participant, and notice of the amount of approved loan repayment.
Deadlines:
  Review the Loan Repayment Program website www.lrp.nih.gov, or contact the
  Headquarters Office listed below for the application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The approximate time for approval/disapproval is 3 months.
Appeals:
  Employees of the NIH who are not approved as a result of this process may ask
  for reconsideration through the standard appeal procedures available to
  employees.
Renewals:
  At the conclusion of the initial 2-year contract, participants may apply and be
  recommended for subsequent 1-year continuation contracts under the application
  and approval procedures specified above.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is available for a minimum 2-year period. One-year, continuation
  contracts are available for individuals whose educational debt exceeds the
  maximum repayable amount for 2 years and whose renewal ranking scores
  within the funding range. Payments are made directly to lenders, following each
  quarter of the participant's satisfactory service, unless otherwise agreed upon by
  the participant and Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Reports:
  Program participants must be certified periodically to have satisfactorily
  performed the duties of their positions.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  The NIH will maintain applicant records for 3 years after rejection and
  participant records for 6 years after completion of final service obligation.
Account Identification:
  75-6846-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Loan Repayments) FY 07 $300,070; FY 08 est $360,724; and FY 09 est
  360,724.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For initial 2-year contracts, loan repayments range from $68,000 to $70,000,
  Tax reimbursements range from $36,000 to $40,000. The average contract cost
  which includes loan and tax reimbursement is $109,350.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Eight contracts were awarded in fiscal year 2007. It is projected that 7 awards
  will be made in fiscal year 2008, and 7 awards are projected in fiscal year 2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Pertinent information is contained in Public Law 103-43, Section 1631; Section
