  487E of Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 288-5); Public Law 105-392;           
  Federal Register, Volume 59, No. 201, October 19, 1994; 42 CFR Part 68a            
  Federal Register, Volume 63, No. 210, October 30, 1998.                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Program and Business Contact: Patricia A. Cole, Ph.D., Director Intramural         
  Loan Repayment Programs, National Institutes of Health, Building 2, Room           
  2E18, 2 Center Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892-0230. LRP Helpline Telephone:             
  (866) 849-4047. Facsimile: (866) 849-4046. Email: lrp@nih.gov .                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.lrp.nih.gov .                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.936, National Institutes of Health Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome           
  Research Loan Repayment Program; 93.162, National Health Service Corps             
  Loan Repayment Program; 93.164, Indian Health Service Educational Loan             
  Repayment; 93.342, Health Professions Student Loans, Including Primary Care        
  Loans/Loans for Disadvantaged Students; 93.364, Nursing Student Loans.             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Clinical and basic research to evaluate the use of a PET imaging agent, Tc-94m     
  sestamibi, which will allow greater resolution and quantitation and thereby make   
  direct quantitative comparisons of tumor uptake before and after treatment with    
  antagonists possible. Clinical and basic research designed to develop better       
  methods for detection, prevention and therapy for patients with kidney cancer.     
  Research on the molecular genetics and protein chemistry of tumor suppressor       
  genes and in particular, the VHL gene; and studies into the treatment of adult     
  solid tumors, and laboratory research projects in tumor immunology and             
  morphology.                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applicants are approved for participation in the NIH Clinical Research Loan        
  Repayment Program after the LRC determines that the applicant will conduct         
  qualified clinical research and qualifies as being from a disadvantaged            
  background. LRC approval, in part, is based upon the scientific merit of the       
  research and the credentials of the applicant as they relate to performing         
  qualified clinical research.                                                       
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.223 DEVELOPMENT AND COORDINATION OF RURAL                                         
HEALTH SERVICES                                                                      
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act.                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To (1) Build infrastructure through workshops, conferences, etc., (2) develop      
  and provide information to a wide audience, (3) increase awareness of Federal      
  and State resources, and (4) build partnerships between Federal and State          
  governments.                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  All funds awarded are to be expended solely for carrying out the approved

                                                                                     
  activities in accordance with the intent of the cooperative agreement as           
  stipulated in the notice of grant award.                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Nonprofit private organizations that represent national, State and local rural     
  health constituencies. The applicant must represent National, State, and local

                                                                                     
  constituency groups who are interested in and committed to improvements in

                                                                                     
  rural health care.

                                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Underserved populations in rural areas and rural health care providers wishing to  
  expand their services. Rural health care advocacy groups and their constituents.   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be     
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find    
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Office of Rural Health.     
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for         


                                                                                11-08
  awards.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by Federal and nonfederal experts in rural health care.
  Applications are calculated for merit and are recommended for approval or
  disapproval. Final decisions are made by the Director, Office of Rural Health
  Policy.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 3 to 4 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made annually for a project period of 5 years.
Reports:
  A progress report and a financial status report are to be submitted within 90 days
  after the close of the budget period. A final performance report and financial
  status report are due 90 days following the end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $300,000; FY 08 est $270,000; and FY 09 est $300,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Average award is $300,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  One noncompeting continuation award was funded in FY 07.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  The Office of Rural Health Policy, Health Resources and Services
  Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 9A-55, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville,
  MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-0835.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch; Telephone: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training
  Branch; Telephone: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch;
  Telephone: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.913, Grants to States for Operation of Offices of Rural Health.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  National and regional meetings of State Offices, meetings and support for the
  National Recruitment Network, technical assistance to States and local
  organizations, and funding for five EMS/GIS mapping collaborative projects.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be reviewed and rated on the applicant's ability to address the
  following areas: (1) Developing and disseminating knowledge through the
  solicitation, review, selection, compilation, and circulation of manuscripts
  derived from relevant research conducted on rural health issues; (2) organizing,
  publicizing, and managing meetings to enhance the dissemination of
  information on rural health care issues, including minority rural health, rural
  health clinics, and recruitment and retention of health care professionals in rural
  areas; (3) providing technical and other nonfinancial assistance to State offices
  of rural health to increase their capability to serve rural residents; (4) developing
  a network to promote recruitment and retention of health professionals in rural
  areas; and (5) providing updated information to the public about rural health
  clinics.
                                                                                    1327
