93.224 CONSOLIDATED HEALTH CENTERS                                                    
(COMMUNITY HEALTH CENTERS, MIGRANT HEALTH                                             
                                                                                      
CENTERS, HEALTH CARE FOR THE HOMELESS, PUBLIC                                         
HOUSING PRIMARY CARE, AND SCHOOL BASED                                                
HEALTH CENTERS)                                                                       
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Section 330(e),(g),(h),(i).

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                      
  To improve the health of the Nation's underserved communities and vulnerable

                                                                                      
  populations by assuring access to comprehensive, culturally competent, quality

                                                                                      
  primary health care services. Individual health center grant mechanisms include:

                                                                                      
  (1) Community Health Centers; (2) Migrant Health Centers; (3) Health Care for

                                                                                      
  the Homeless; and (4) Public Housing Primary Care Program.

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                      
  Project Grants.

                                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                      
  Applications should be designed to improve the availability, accessibility and

                                                                                      
  provision of primary health care services. Funds may not be used for inpatient

                                                                                      
  services, or to make cash payments to intended recipients of services.              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible applicants are public and non-profit private entities, including tribal,   
  faith-based and community-based organizations that have the capacity to             
  effectively administer the grant.                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Population groups in medically underserved areas.                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued

                                                                                      
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental

                                                                                      
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office of the           
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more     
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for        
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from         
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov website at www.grants.gov to both find

                                                                                      
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be   
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                  
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for Bureau of Primary Health         
  Care. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for    
  awards.                                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Each applicant will receive written notification of the outcome of the objective    
  review process, including summary of the expert committee's assessment of the       
  application's merits and weaknesses, and whether the application was selected       
  for funding. Applicants who are selected for funding may be required to respond     
  in a satisfactory manner to Conditions placed on their application before funding   
  can proceed. Letters of notification do not provide authorization to begin          
  performance. The Notice of Grant Award, which is signed by the Grants               
  Management Officer and is sent to the applicant agency's Authorized                 
  Representative, is the authorizing document.                                        
Deadlines:                                                                            
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 90 to 120 days.

Appeals:

  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Awards to support projects beyond the first budget year will be contingent upon

  Congressional appropriation, compliance with applicable statutory and               
  regulatory requirements, demonstrated organizational capacity to accomplish the     
  project's goals, and a determination that continued funding would be in the best    
  interest of the government.                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  These programs have no statutory formula for the amount of the grant. The           
  amount is negotiated based on costs of the proposed grant activities.               
                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Awards are made annually. After Notices of Grant Award are issued, funds are        
  released in accordance with DHHS payment procedures, which may be through           
  an Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cash Request System.                     
Reports:                                                                              
  Grantees are required to submit an annual report that describes the costs of its    
  operations, the patterns of use of its services and the availability, accessibility 
  and acceptability of its services provided under the grant, and provide such other  


1328                                                                            11-08

  information as the Secretary determines appropriate. Financial status reports are
  required no later than 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final
  financial status and progress reports are due 90 days after the end of a project
  period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  year period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,755,000,000; FY 08 $1,821,000,000; and FY 09 est $1,875,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $200,000 to $10,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, the Consolidated Health Centers programs served over 16 million
  patients.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Headquarters Program Office: Bureau of Primary Health Care, HRSA, 5600
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Eastern Division: (301) 594-4488; Central
  Mid-Atlantic Division: (301) 594-4420; Western Division: (301) 480-1130.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16,
  Rockville, MD 20857. Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and
  Training Branch: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch:
  (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.224, Consolidated Health Centers (Community Health Centers, Migrant
  Health Centers, Health Care for the Homeless, Public Housing Primary Care,
  and School Based Health Centers).
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Community health centers; county health departments, and other community-
  based organizations.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria for selecting proposals are available in the funding opportunity guidance
  document. In addition, all applicants are expected to demonstrate compliance
  with applicable requirements including the Health Center Program Expectations.
  In addition to these general requirements, there are specific requirements and
  expectations for applicants requesting funding under each of the section 330
  programs. Applicants are strongly encouraged to demonstrate compliance with
  these requirements and expectations in the application. Applicants requesting
  funding under multiple programs are expected to demonstrate compliance with
  the expectations and requirements of all of those programs.
93.225 NATIONAL RESEARCH SERVICE AWARDS-
HEALTH SERVICES RESEARCH TRAINING
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  AGENCY FOR HEALTHCARE RESEARCH AND QUALITY,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  42 U.S.C. 288, Section 487 of the Public Health Service Act.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide predoctoral and postdoctoral training opportunities in health services
  research. Individual fellowships will be awarded directly to applicants for
  postdoctoral research training. Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality
  (AHRQ) also cosponsors a predoctoral fellowship program with NIH to enhance
  diversity in research. Domestic institutions will also be awarded grants to
  enhance predoctoral and post doctoral training programs and provide support to
  trainees selected by them. The purpose of these awards is to provide fellows and
  trainees with both academic training and actual experience in the application of
  research methods to the systematic analysis and evaluation of the organization,
