  financing, utilization, and delivery of health care services.                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Fellowship support is available for full-time health services research training. An
  institutional allowance is provided to the sponsoring institution for each fellow. 
  Also, research training grants are awarded to institutions to provide support to   
  trainees selected by the training program director at the grantee institution. This
  support is available for predoctoral and postdoctoral trainees. Offsets for tuition
  and fees are allowable for trainees, and an amount for institutional expenses will 
  be provided. Facilities and administrative costs may be requested at 8 percent of  
  allowable direct costs, or the negotiated facilities and administrative cost rate, 
  whichever is less. Postdoctoral fellows and trainees in the first 12 months of     
  postdoctoral NRSA support incur one month of payback obligation for each           
  month of support. The thirteenth and subsequent months of postdoctoral NRSA        
  support are considered payback service for prior postdoctoral support.             
  Predoctoral fellows and trainees do not incur a service payback obligation.        
  Discretionary funds are available.                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Domestic public or private nonprofit organizations or institutions may apply for   
  training grants. The applicant institutions must have or expand training           
  programs designed to develop competent investigators in the methods and            
  techniques of conducting health services research. State or local governments      
  and U.S. Territories are eligible. Profit-making organizations are not eligible.   
  Individual applicants for postdoctoral fellowships must have received a clinical   
  or research doctoral degree. Individual applicants for predoctoral fellowships     
  must be from ethnic/racial groups that have been determined to be                  
  underrepresented in biomedical or behavioral research. All persons supported as    
  fellows or trainees must be citizens or noncitizen nationals of the United States, 
  or have been lawfully admitted for permanent residence.                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Individuals and public or private nonprofit organizations or institutions,         
  including State or local governments and U.S. Territories, are the beneficiaries   
  of this program.                                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  An individual applicant for a postdoctoral fellowship must document receipt of a   
  doctoral degree and acceptance by an appropriate institutional sponsor. An         
  individual applicant for a predoctoral fellowship must have completed their        
  bachelor's degree and document their acceptance in a research doctoral degree      
  granting program by an appropriate institutional sponsor. Institutional applicants 
  for training grants must document their research and training experiences, staff,  
  curriculum, facilities, and other resources available. Costs will be determined in 
  accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74.                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  While there is no program requirement for preapplication, informal                 
  preapplication consultation to prospective applicants is available upon request to 
  the Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ) and is recommended.          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Application forms and information about health services research areas being       
  supported are available from AHRQ. Individual fellowship applicants should         
  submit Form PHS 416-1, (Rev. 10/05). Institutions should submit Form PHS           
  398 (Rev. 9/04). For State agencies, no State Plan is required. For State and local
  governments, the standard forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR,       
  Part 92, may be used. This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR, Part    
  92 for State and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit        
  organizations.                                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications are reviewed for scientific merit by a committee including            
  nonfederal consultants who are selected from appropriate scientific fields.        
  AHRQ considers the recommendations of the review committee, program                
  interest, and the availability of funds in the final selection of grantees. When   
  such decisions are made, applicants are notified and a Notice of Grant Award is    
                                                                                     
  issued. Before receiving support, all individual fellows and institutional

                                                                                     
  postdoctoral trainees must submit required forms, including a payback

                                                                                     
  agreement.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

  Contact Headquarters Office for deadline dates for Institutional Training Grants.  
  Individual applications for predoctoral and postdoctoral fellowships are due:      
  July 23, November 23, and March 23.                                                
                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  From 5 to 6 months from receipt of application.                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  If additional support is desired to continue a grant beyond the approved project   
  period, an application for competing continuation must be submitted for review     
  in the same manner as a new application. Generally, no individual may receive      
  more than 3 years of aggregate National Research Service Award support at the      
  postdoctoral level, or 5 years at the predoctoral level, including any combination 


                                                                                11-08
  of support from institutional and individual awards.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Individual fellowship support at the postdoctoral level is generally limited to 3
  years and at the predoctoral level to 5 years. Institutional training grants may be
  awarded for project periods up to 5 years. Awards are made on an annual basis
  and it is expected that obligations will be made within the budget period
  awarded. After awards are issued, funds are released in accordance with the
  payment procedure established by the grantee with DHHS, which may be an
  Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cash Request system.
Reports:
  Annual and final progress reports are required. For Institutional Training Grants,
  a final progress report is due at the close of the project period. Annual Financial
  Status Reports are also required for Institutional National Research Service
  Awards. These Financial Status Reports must be submitted within 90 days after
  the close of each budget period. Annual reports of activities for tracking payback
  provisions are required of all fellows and trainees upon termination of support.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in Federal
  awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  No. A-133. In addition, grants records are subject to audit and inspection by
  Federal auditors.
Records:
  Records must be retained for at least three years; records shall be retained
  beyond the three year period if audit findings have not been resolved. Records
  relating to individual payback obligations are retained for one year after the
  individual has fulfilled or has been excused from fulfilling the payback
  obligation.
Account Identification:
  75-1700-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $7,713,000; FY 08 est $7,820,000; and FY 09 est $7,820,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  (Individuals) $35,000 to $65,000; $45,000. (Institutions) $120,000 to $500,000;
  $300,000. These figures are total costs (stipends plus associated costs).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 3 new and 3 continuing individual fellowships were funded
  and 27 continuing institutional training grants were funded. It is estimated that
  6 individual fellowships and 25 institutional training grants will be awarded in
  fiscal year 2008. In fiscal year 2009, it is estimated that the same number of
  fellowships and training grants will be awarded as in fiscal year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Title 42 CFR Part 66; PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No.
  (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), Department of Health
  and Human Services, 540 Gaither Road, Rockville, MD 20850. Program
  Contact: Shelley Benjamin (Telephone: (301) 427-1528) or Brenda Harding
  (Telephone: (301) 427-1527), Division of Research Education. Grants
  Management Contact: Al Deal, Grants Management Specialist (Telephone:
  (301) 427-1806). Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http//www.ahrq.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.226, Research on Healthcare Costs, Quality and Outcomes.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Support is provided for training in the following areas: health services research,
  research methods (including qualitative research), epidemiology, biostatistics,
  geriatrics, health administration and public health, medical information sciences,
  health policy and management, organizational behavior, clinical outcomes and
  effectiveness, primary care, health care quality, health economics and financing,
  child health, and vulnerable populations.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For Individual fellowship applications, the following review criteria will be used:
  (1) The applicant's past academic and research accomplishments; (2) research
  goals; (3) research training proposed; (4) qualifications of the sponsor; (5)
  appropriateness of training environment; and (6) reference reports. For
  Institutional training grant applications, the following review criteria will be
  used: (1) goals of the proposed training and probability of achievement; (2)
  substantive content, including courses offered; (3) qualifications and
  responsibilities of program director and faculty; (4) ability to recruit trainees; (5)
  extent of institutional participation through provision of necessary space,
  curriculum time, financial support, and appropriate facilities; (6) documented
                                                                                     1329
