  cooperation of related agencies in providing research experience; (7) proposed       
  number of students; (8) methods for monitoring and evaluating trainees; and (9)      
  reasonableness of budget. In all cases, AHRQ will consider the                       
  recommendations of the review committee, the Council program interests, and          
  availability of funds in making the final selection of grantees.                     
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.226 RESEARCH ON HEALTHCARE COSTS, QUALITY

                                                                                       
AND OUTCOMES                                                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  AGENCY FOR HEALTHCARE RESEARCH AND QUALITY,                                          
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  42 U.S.C. 299 ff., Title IX of the Public Health Service Act.                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To support research and evaluations, demonstration projects, research networks,      
  and multidisciplinary centers and to disseminate information on health care and      
  on systems for the delivery of such care involving: (1) The quality, effectiveness,  
  efficiency, appropriateness and value of health care services; (2) quality           
  measurement and improvement; (3) the outcomes, cost, cost-effectiveness, and         
  use of health care services and access to such services; (4) clinical practice,      
  including primary care and practice-oriented research; (5) health care               
  technologies, facilities and equipment; (6) health care costs, productivity,         
  organization, and market forces; (7) health promotion and disease prevention,        
  including clinical preventive services; (8) health statistics, surveys, database     
  development, and epidemiology; and (9) medical liability. In support of this         
  research, the Agency has a special interest in health care and its delivery in the   
  inner city, in rural areas, and for priority populations (low-income groups,         
  minority groups, women, children, the elderly, and individuals with special          
                                                                                       
  health care needs).

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The research should contribute to the health services knowledge base from            
  which empirically based information can be derived by policymakers, both             
  immediately and over the coming decades. Grants include funds for direct costs       
  (such as personnel, travel, equipment, or supplies) necessary to carry out an        
  approved project as well as funds for the reimbursement of applicable facilities     
  and administrative costs. Unallowable costs, as well as those for which prior        
  written approval is required, are indicated in the PHS Grants Policy Statement.      
  Discretionary funds are available.                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Federal, State or local government agencies, federally-recognized Indian Tribal      
  Governments, U.S. Territories, sponsored organizations, non-government               
  organizations, minority groups, specialized groups, public or private institutions   
  of higher education, and other public or nonprofit private agencies, institutions,   
  or organizations. Research project grants may also be awarded to individuals.        
  For-profit organizations are eligible to apply for these grants only if "cooperative 
                                                                                       
  agreement" is the designated funding mechanism. Organizations described in

                                                                                       
  section 501(c)4 of the Internal Revenue Code that engage in lobbying are not

                                                                                       
  eligible.

                                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  Federal, State or local government agencies, federally-recognized Indian Tribal

                                                                                       
  Governments, public or private nonprofit institutions, U.S. territories, Native

                                                                                       
  American organizations, sponsored organizations, consumers, students, minority

                                                                                       
  groups, specialized groups, health or education professionals, individuals,

                                                                                       
  scientist/researchers, and the general public.

                                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                       
  Nonprofit organizations must submit proof of their nonprofit status when

                                                                                       
  applying for grants. Costs will be determined in accordance with DHHS

                                                                                       
  Regulations 45 CFR 74.

                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  There is no program requirement for preapplication. Informal preapplication          
                                                                                       
  consultation to prospective applicants is available upon request, but is not

                                                                                       
  required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Applications must be submitted in response to a Funding Opportunity

  Announcement (FOA). All FOAs are posted on www.Grants.gov. Refer to the              
                                                                                       
  FOA of interest for specific requirements regarding the application procedure as

                                                                                       
  AHRQ is in the process of transitioning to the new SF-424 Research and Related

                                                                                       
  (R&R) grant application form and to electronic submission through

                                                                                       
  www.Grants.gov for competing awards. For FOAs that have not yet been

                                                                                       
  transitioned to electronic submission through Grants.gov, nongovernmental

                                                                                       
  applicants should submit using Form PHS-398 (Rev. November 2007); State

                                                                                       
  and local governments may submit using the standard application forms, as

                                                                                       
  furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR Part 92. For State agencies, no State

                                                                                       
  Plan is required. Applications are reviewed and evaluated by a group composed

                                                                                       
  primarily of nonfederal scientists. The review is conducted by a panel of experts

                                                                                       
  in the specific study area proposed. This program is subject to the provisions of

                                                                                       
  45 CFR Part 92 for State and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-110



1330                                                                             11-08

  for nonprofit organizations.
Award Procedure:
  Following review for scientific merit by a group composed primarily of
  nonfederal scientists, grant applications may be reviewed by the National
  Advisory Council for Healthcare Research and Quality, after which AHRQ
  makes final decisions to support approved applications. When such decisions are
  made, applicants are notified directly by AHRQ staff and all required steps are
  taken to issue the Notice of Grant Award.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines for new grants vary by program and mechanism. Refer to
  www.Grants.gov and the specific FOA to which you plan to apply.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 6 to 9 months from receipt of application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  If additional support is desired to continue a project beyond the approved project
  period, an application for competing continuation must be submitted for review
  in the same manner as a new application.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants may be approved for project periods up to 5 years. Awards are made on
  an annual basis and it is expected that obligations will be made within the
  budget period awarded. After awards are issued, funds are released in
  accordance with the payment procedure established by the grantee institution
  with DHHS, which may be an Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cash
  Request System.
Reports:
  Progress reports are required on an annual basis. Financial Status Reports must
  be submitted within 90 days after the end of each budget period. Inventions are
  to be reported immediately. A terminal progress report must be submitted within
  90 days after the end of a project.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from
  Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
  In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspection and
  audits by DHHS and other Federal government officials.
Records:
  Records must be retained for at least three years; records shall be retained
  beyond the three year period if audit findings have not been resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-1700-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $80,274,536; FY 08 est $73,127,391; and FY 09 est
  $64,557,046.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $9,989 to $1,482,711; $261,674. These are total cost figures (direct plus
  associated facilities and administrative costs if appropriate).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 296 grants were provided to universities, hospitals, nonprofit
  private agencies, State agencies, local government agencies and individuals to
  conduct health services research and demonstration projects. In fiscal year 2008,
  it is estimated that approximately 213 grants will be provided to similar
  organizations and individuals for the support of extramural health services
  research and demonstration and dissemination projects. In fiscal year 2009, it is
  estimated that approximately 152 grants will be provided to similar
  organizations and individuals.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  42 CFR 67, Regulations for Grants for Health Services Research, Evaluation,
  Demonstration, and Dissemination Projects as amended by Public Law 106-129;
  PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000 (Rev.)
  April 1, 1994.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality, Department of Health and Human
  Services, 540 Gaither Road, Rockville, MD 20850. Program Contacts:
  Improving Health Outcomes and Evidence-based Practice and Technology
  Assessment, Jean Slutsky, Director, Center for Outcomes and Evidence
  (Telephone: (301) 427-1600); Quality of Care, William Munier, MD, Director,
  Center for Quality Improvement and Patient Safety (Telephone: (301) 427-
  1349); Primary Care, David Myers, MD, Director, Center for Primary Care
  Prevention and Clinical Partnerships (Telephone: (301) 427-1500); Cost and
  Financing, Steven Cohen, PhD, Director, Center for Financing, Access, and Cost
  Trends (Telephone: (301) 427-1406); Organization, Delivery, and Markets, Irene
