Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.ihs.gov/nonmedicalprograms/tmg/index.asp .                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  93.224, Consolidated Health Centers (Community Health Centers, Migrant                 
  Health Centers, Health Care for the Homeless, Public Housing Primary Care,             
  and School Based Health Centers).                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  The development of: (1) A management structure (2) an evaluation of Tribal             
  health programs; (3) a feasibility study and comprehensive health plan; (4) a          
  management information system; (5) technical assistance; (6) a development of          
  financial/management systems for Public Law 93-638 programs; and (7) a                 
  Federal program analysis.                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  (1) The apparent capability of the applicant to organize and manage the proposal       
  project successfully considering the adequacy of staff, management systems,            
  equipment and facilities; (2) the soundness of the applicant's plan for conducting     
  the project and for assuring effective utilization of grant funds; (3) the adequacy    
  of the budget in relation to the scope of the project and available funds; and (4)     
  the relative effectiveness of the applicant's plan to carry out each of the            
  requirements as set forth in the application.                                          
                                                                                         
93.229 DEMONSTRATION COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS                                              
                                                                                         
FOR DEVELOPMENT AND IMPLEMENTATION OF                                                    
CRIMINAL JUSTICE TREATMENT NETWORKS                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES                                             
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                                         
                                                                                         
  SERVICES

                                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title V, Part B, Section 511, 42 U.S.C.

                                                                                         
  290bb-4.                                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To fund integrated criminal justice treatment networks made up of a consortium         
  of criminal justice, substance abuse treatment, primary health and mental health       
  care, and allied social services and job placement agencies in the following three     
  offender populations: Adult Female Offenders, Juvenile Justice Populations and         
  Adult Male Offenders. Each network will develop a strategy to link existing            
  criminal justice-primary care-substance abuse-treatment partnerships into a            
  comprehensive continuum of services in addiction treatment, public health,             
  primary care, mental health, and courts and corrections, with the pivotal points       
  of referral and supervision being either the courts or community corrections           
  (probation and parole agencies).                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Funds (including direct costs and allowable indirect costs) may be used only for       
  expenses clearly related and necessary to carry out approved network activities        
  for planning and implementation designed to improve the accessibility and              
  effectiveness of community-based offender substance abuse treatment services           
  coordinated with primary care and mental health services in metropolitan areas         
  with populations of 200,000 to 1 million. Funds may not be used to supplant            
  current funding for existing activities. Funds may not be used for the purchase of     
  a facility to house any portion of the proposed program. Any funds proposed for        
  the purpose of renovation expenses must be detailed and linked directly to

                                                                                         
  programmatic activities. Any lease arrangements in association with the                
  proposed program utilizing these funds may not extend beyond the project               
  period or cover non-programmatic activities. Construction costs are not allowed.       
  No less than 98 percent of the total amount awarded to each State must be              
  allocated to the subrecipients. From any remaining funds, the State may recover        
  the lesser of its actual costs of administration (direct and indirect costs) of grant, 
  or 2 percent of the total amount of awards made to subrecipients within the            
  State.                                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  Applicant Eligibility for this program is limited to the State Alcohol and Drug        
  Abuse Agency which applies on behalf of a consortium of relevant State and             
  local officials, and public and nonprofit private entities who provide or have         
  jurisdiction over providing treatment for substance abuse to individuals under         
  criminal justice supervision. Where the State agency chooses to not be the             
  applicant, public and nonprofit private entities which develop a project on behalf     
  of a consortium may submit applications, directly, but are required to coordinate      
  with the State agency, and the State agency should designate its priorities if         
  more than one application is submitted from that state.                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  Male and female adult and juvenile offenders with substance abuse and related          
  health problems.                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  Applicants must provide a letter(s) of commitment as evidence of collaboration         
  and involvement on the part of a consortium of appropriate State and local             
  officials and public/nonprofit private entities involved in providing treatment for

1332                                                                               11-08

  substance abuse to individuals under criminal justice supervision.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A letter of intent from prospective applicants is requested 30 days prior to the
  application receipt date, and should be sent to: Office of Review, Substance
  Abuse and Mental Health Administration, Rockwall II Building, Suite 630,
  Rockville, MD 20857, ATTN: Letter of Intent. This program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Application Procedure:
  All applicants are to use the standard application form PHS 5161-1 (Rev. July
  2000), which contains Standard Form 424 (Face Page). Application kits
  containing the necessary forms and instructions may be obtained by contacting:
  The National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug Information, P.O. Box 2345,
  Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: 1(800) 729-6686. Applicants should
  reference CSAT Grant announcement, "Demonstration Grants for the
  Development and Implementation of Criminal Justice Treatment Networks."
Award Procedure:
  Cooperative Agreement Grants in support of projects recommended for approval
  by the initial review groups and the Advisory Council and the Director, CSAT
  are awarded by CSAT to the applicant.
Deadlines:
  No new applications are being accepted.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards will be made for a maximum of 5 years. Year 1 will involve a 9 to 12
  month planning period. CSAT approval of the plan is required prior to
  implementation. Payments will be made either on a Monthly Cash Request
  System or under an Electronic Transfer System.
Reports:
  Unless otherwise specified, progress reports will be required at least quarterly,
  and a financial status report is required annually. A final progress report and
  financial status report are required 90 days following the end of the project
  period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative
  agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal
  government officials. In addition, 45 CFR 74.26 requires that for-profit
  recipients and subrecipients have an audit performed in accordance with
  Government Auditing Standards or Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  There is a 3-year record retention requirement; records shall be retained beyond
  the 3-year period if final audit has not been done or findings resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-1362-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  One award of $1,000,000 was made in FY 2001.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Federal regulations at Title 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92, generic requirements
  concerning the administration of grants, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement
  are applicable to the awards. Guidelines and instructions are included in the
  application kits available by request from: The National Clearinghouse for
  Alcohol and Drug Information, P.O. Box 2345, Rockville, MD 20857.
  Telephone: (301) 468-2600 or 1-800-729-6686.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contacts: Randy Muck, Division of Practice and Systems
  Development, Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, Substance Abuse and
  Mental Health Services Administration, Public Health Service, Department of
