  Health and Human Services, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Rockville, MD 20857.                
  Telephone: (240) 276-1576 . Use the same number for FTS. Grants Management          
  Contact: Ms. Kimberly Pendleton, Grants Management Officer, Grants                  
  Management Office, Office of Program Support, Substance Abuse and Mental            
  Health Services Administration, Public Health Service, Department of Health         
  and Human Services, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:            
  (240) 276-1421. Use the same numbers for FTS.                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.samhsa.gov .                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.144, Demonstration Grants for the Prevention of Alcohol and Drug Abuse           
  Among High-Risk Populations; 93.196, Cooperative Agreements for Drug                
  Abuse Treatment Improvement Projects in Target Cities; 16.585, Drug Court           
  Discretionary Grant Program.                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Denver Juvenile Justice Integrated Treatment Network, Denver, Colorado, The         
  Denver Network is implementing a comprehensive continuum of care for                
  alcohol and other drug abusing juvenile offenders and their families through a      
  collaborative effort of all public juvenile justice/correctional systems, and public
  and private sector mental health, health, education, pro-social, employment,        
  AOD, and social services; Brooklyn Treatment Court/Women's Treatment                
  Network, Brooklyn, New York, The Brooklyn Treatment Court, a dedicated              
  court linked to a centralized case management unit, serves as the hub of a          
  comprehensive criminal justice and treatment network. Collaborations with the       
  Kings County District Attorney, the Legal Aid Society, the New York City            
  Department of Corrections and other criminal justice agencies have resulted in a    
  comprehensive court-based response to the needs of non-violent substance abuse      
  offenders, where treatment is offered as an alternative to incarceration.           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Criteria for technical merit review of applications will include the following:     
  Significance of Network to State and Local Efforts (20 percent);                    
  Relevancy/Adequacy of Project's Plans (35 percent); Appropriateness of Project      
  Resources, Planning and Management (25 percent); and Adequacy of Evaluation         
  Plans (20 percent). In addition award criteria will include: Representation on the  
  consortium to include the broadest array of health and human services;              
  coordination with other Federal programs; geographical distribution; focus on       
  racial and ethnic minorities; availability of nonfederal resources and the          
  availability of Federal funds.                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.230 CONSOLIDATED KNOWLEDGE DEVELOPMENT                                             
AND APPLICATION (KD&A) PROGRAM                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES                                          
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                                      
  SERVICES                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title V, Part B, Section 501(d)(5), 42       
  U.S.C. 290aa.                                                                       
                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                      
  To provide immediately usable knowledge to improve substance abuse and

                                                                                      
  mental health services in crucial selected areas. SAMHSA's Knowledge

                                                                                      
  Development and Application (KDA) program is aimed at answering important,

                                                                                      
  practical questions and effectively transferring answers to those who need the

                                                                                      
  information. The questions to be answered are not decided by the agency in

                                                                                      
  isolation, but arise from consumers and their families, providers, State officials,

                                                                                      
  constituency organizations, national advisory councils, services researchers, the

                                                                                      
  Congress, HHS, and for substance abuse, the Office of National Drug Control

                                                                                      
  Policy (ONDCP). The program emphasizes knowledge development and

                                                                                      
  application, making sure that this knowledge is relevant and timely. KDA

                                                                                      
  activities are undertaken in actual service settings rather than in artificially    
  created and controlled settings. SAMHSA's KDA program is driven by the needs        
  of the users/providers/systems administrators. SAMHSA announces specific            
  KDA topics annually in the Federal Register. Dissemination of results through       
  multiple channels, including the latest available technology, to inform service     
  providers is an integral part of the KDA program.                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.

                                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                      
  Funds (including direct costs and allowable indirect costs) may be used only for

                                                                                      
  expenses clearly related and necessary to carry out approved activities that will

                                                                                      
  provide immediately useful, practical knowledge that service providers need as

                                                                                      
  they wrestle with the rapidly changing health care environment. Funds may not

                                                                                      
  be used to supplant current funding for existing activities. Funds may not be

                                                                                      
  used to pay for services except for additional costs created by the research and

                                                                                      
  may not be used for the purchase of a facility to house any portion of the

                                                                                      
  proposed project. Any funds proposed for the purpose of renovation expenses

                                                                                      
  must be detailed and linked directly to programmatic activities. Any lease          
  arrangements in association with the proposed project utilizing these funds may     
  not extend beyond the project period or cover non-programmatic activities.



                                                                                 11-08
  Construction costs are not allowed.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligibility for the topical areas under this consolidated program is open to public
  organizations, such as units of State or local governments and to domestic
  private nonprofit and for-profit organizations such as community-based
  organizations, universities, colleges, and hospitals.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public or domestic private for-profit and nonprofit organizations will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants for all topical areas must provide a copy of a letter sent to the Single
  State Agency for Alcohol and Drug Abuse and/or Mental Health that briefly
  describes the application. Applicants must also provide proof of licensure,
  accreditation, certification, or chartering to provide substance abuse and/or
  mental health services or such other credential documentation as specified for a
  particular topical area.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A letter of intent from prospective applicants is requested at least 30 days prior
  to the application receipt date, and should be sent to: Office of Extramural
  Activities Review, SAMHSA, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Rockville, MD 20857,
  ATTN: Letter of Intent. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  All applicants must use application form PHS 5161-1 (July, 2000) Application
  kits containing the necessary forms and instructions may be obtained by
  contacting: The National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug Information, P.O.
  Box 2345, Rockville, MD 20847-2345. Telephone: (301) 468-2600 or 1(800)
  729-6686, or the National Mental Health Services Knowledge Exchange
  Network (KEN) at 1(800) 789-2647.
Award Procedure:
  Applications for grants and cooperative agreements recommended for approval
  by the initial review group and concurred in by the appropriate National
  Advisory Council and the Center Director(s) are awarded directly by each Center
  (Center for Mental Health Services (CMHS), Center for Substance Abuse
  Prevention (CSAP), and Center for Substance Abuse Treatment (CSAT)) to the
  applicant organization.
Deadlines:
  Contact Division of Extramural Activities, Policy, and Review, SAMHSA, 1
  Choke Cherry Road, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (240) 276-1199 for the
  receipt date(s) for applications.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Applications will be accepted for a 3-year project period with 12-month budget
  periods. Annual awards will be made subject to continued availability of funds
  and progress achieved. Payments will be made either on a Monthly Cash
  Request System or under an Electronic Transfer System.
Reports:
  Unless otherwise specified, progress reports will be required at least quarterly,
  and a financial status report is required annually. A final progress report and
  financial status report are required 90 days following the end of the project
  period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative
  agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal
  government officials. In addition, 45 CFR 74.26 requires that for-profit
  recipients and Subrecipients have an audit performed in accordance with
  Government Auditing Standards or Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  There is a 3-year record retention requirement; records shall be retained beyond
  the 3-year period if final audit has not been done or findings resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-1362-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants/Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $23,313,874; FY 08 est $500,000; and
  FY 09 est not reported.
                                                                                  1333
