  will be funded in fiscal years 2006 and 12 in 2007.                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Public Law 94-437, Section 214(a)(1), as amended by Public Law 102-573; 45         
  CFR 92 and 45 CFR 74; authorizes the cooperative agreement grant awards.           
  PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000 (Rev.           
  April 1, 1994).                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Program Contact: Dr. James Cheek; Division of Epidemiology and Disease             
  Prevention, Indian Health Service, Headquarters West, 5300 Homestead Road,         
  NE; Albuquerque, New Mexico 87110; Telephone: (505) 248-4132. For Grants           
  Management Contact: Ms. Kimberly Pendleton; Senior Grants Management               
  Officer, Division of Grants Operations, Indian Health Service; 801 Thompson        
  Avenue, TMP, Suite 360; Rockville, Maryland 20852; Telephone: (301) 443-           
  5204. (Telephone numbers are not toll-free).                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.ihs.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  (1) The Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board has established a              
  Northwest Tribal Epidemiology Center in Portland, Oregon to serve the 39           
  federally-recognized tribes who are its members plus the two urban Indian          
  organizations in the Portland Area of the Indian Health Center; and (2) The        
  Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium is establishing a new Alaska Native         
  Epidemiology Center in Anchorage, Alaska, which will enhance the ability of        
  Alaska Native health provider agencies to assess long-term changes in the health   
  status of Alaska's 100,000 native people.                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Selection criteria are introduction, current capacity and project objectives,      
  approach and results and benefits, project evaluation, organization capabilities   
  and qualifications, and budget. Consideration will be given to applicants: (1)     
  Proposing to provide services to large regions consisting of more than a single    
  IHS administrative area; and (2) demonstrating evidence of past and current        
  epidemiological activities.                                                        
                                                                                     
93.232 LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM FOR GENERAL                                            
                                                                                     
RESEARCH                                                                             
   (NIH General Research Loan Repayment Program; GR-LRP)                             
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                            
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, Title IV, Part VI, Section 487C, as amended, Public     
  Law 103-43, 42 U.S.C. 288-3, Public Law 105-392.                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To recruit and retain health professionals performing research in fields required  
  by the NIH to carry out its mission by providing educational loan repayment for    
  participants with substantial amounts of educational debt relative to income,      
  who agree by written contract to engage in laboratory or clinical research as      
  employees of the NIH for a minimum 3-year period.                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  To provide repayment of extant educational loans incurred by health                
  professionals engaged, as employees of the NIH, in laboratory or clinical          
  research. Recipients must agree by written contract to engage in such research,    
  initially, for a minimum of 3 years; individuals who have conflicting service      
  obligations may not participate in this program until those obligations are        
  satisfied or have been deferred during the period of program service.              
  Continuation contracts for 1-year terms are available, dependent upon the level    
  of debt and continued involvement in research that supports the research and       
                                                                                     
  institutional needs and the mission of the NIH. Maximum program benefit is

                                                                                     
  $35,000 per year in loan repayments and $13,650 per year in Federal tax

                                                                                     
  reimbursements. Recipients must have qualified educational debt in excess of 20

  percent of their annual salary, which is referred to as their "debt threshold." An 
                                                                                     
  amount equal to half of this "debt threshold" will not be repaid by NIH and must

                                                                                     
  be paid by the program participants.

                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  Eligible applicants must: (1) Be a citizen, national, or permanent resident of the

                                                                                     
  United States; (2) possess a M.D., Ph.D., D.O., D.D.S., D.M.D., D.V.M.,

                                                                                     
  D.P.M., A.D.N., B.S.N., or equivalent degree, or hold the position of Physician

                                                                                     
  Assistant; (3) have qualified educational debt, which results from governmental

                                                                                     
  or commercial loans obtained to support their undergraduate and/or graduate

                                                                                     
  education, in excess of 20 percent of their annual NIH salary on the program

                                                                                     
  eligibility date; (4) be appointed to the NIH Intramural Research Program under    
  any temporary or permanent employment mechanism, so long as the



                                                                                11-08
  employment has the potential to last a minimum of three years; (5) not be under
  any existing service obligation to Federal, State, or other entities, until such
  obligation is discharged or unless it is deferred during the period of program
  service; (6) submit an application to participate in the Loan Repayment Program
  for General Research; and (7) sign and submit to the Secretary of Health and
  Human Services, at the time of application submission, a contract agreeing to
  engage in research as an employee of the NIH for a minimum of 3 years.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  NIH researchers who possess substantial unpaid educational debt relative to
  income will benefit from this program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must submit documentation of the following, as appropriate: (1)
  Copies of loan applications and agreements from government or commercial
  educational loans which are being submitted for repayment; (2) copies of the
  standard student budget from each school attended during the period in which
  the debt was incurred; and (3) other documentation as may be required.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must access and submit the Loan Repayment Program application
  electronically via the website www.lrp.nih.gov; seek qualified employment with
  a sponsoring Institute or Center (IC) of the NIH. Once an application has been
  submitted, the Loan Repayment Committee reviews it at a regularly scheduled
  review meeting and a determination of loan repayment recipients is made.
Award Procedure:
  The NIH Loan Repayment Committee (LRC) will review, rank, and approve or
  disapprove applications recommended for program participation by each
  Institute or Center (IC). Applications approved for participation by the LRC will
  be notified by the Program Director. The Secretary, or his designee, will sign the
  service contract of program participants, provide a copy to the participant, and
  notice of the amount of approved loan repayment.
Deadlines:
  Review the Loan Repayment Program website www.lrp.nih.gov, or contact the
  Headquarters Office listed below for the application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The approximate time for approval/disapproval is 3 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  At the conclusion of the initial 3-year contract, participants may apply and be
  considered for subsequent 1-year continuation contracts under the application
  and approval procedures specified above.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is available for a minimum 3-year period. One-year continuation
  contracts are available for individuals whose educational debt exceeds the
  maximum repayable amount for 3 years. Payments will be made directly to
  lenders, following each quarter of the participant's satisfactory service, unless
  otherwise agreed upon by the participant and Secretary of Health and Human
  Services.
Reports:
  Program participants must be periodically certified to have satisfactorily
  performed the duties of their positions.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  The NIH will maintain applicant records for 3 years after rejection and
  participant records for 6 years after completion of final service obligation.
Account Identification:
  75-6846-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Loan Repayments) FY 07 $4,090,289; FY 08 est $4,767,520; and FY 09 est
  4,767,520.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For initial 3-year contracts, loan repayment awards may range from $12,600 to
  $105,000; Tax reimbursements range from $7,317 to $60,653. The average
  contract cost which includes loan and tax reimbursement is $97,502.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Sixty-nine awards were made in fiscal year 2007. NIH projects that 80 awards
  will be made in fiscal year 2008 and 80 awards are projected in fiscal year 2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Pertinent information is contained in Public Law 103-43, Section 1631; Section
  487C of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 288-3); Public Law 105-392;
  and Federal Register, Volume 59, No. 201, October 19, 1994. Notice of
  Proposed Rulemaking is pending.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program and Business Contact: Patricia A. Cole, Ph.D., Director, Intramural
                                                                                 1335
