  Loan Repayment Programs, National Institutes of Health, Building 2, Room            
  2E18, Bethesda, MD 20892-0230. LRP Helpline Telephone: (866) 849-4047.              
  Facsimile: 866-849-4046. Email: lrp@nih.gov.                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.lrp.nih.gov.                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.936, National Institutes of Health Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome            
  Research Loan Repayment Program; 93.162, National Health Service Corps              
  Loan Repayment Program; 93.164, Indian Health Service Educational Loan              
  Repayment; 93.220, Clinical Research Loan Repayment Program for Individuals         
  from Disadvantaged Backgrounds; 93.364, Nursing Student Loans.                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Implementation of studies on the mood and anxiety disorders in children and         
  adolescents. Evaluation of the effects of radiation-induced cell damage.            
  Identification of the specific and unique markers for the human marrow stromal      
  fibroblasts (HMSFs) colonies which give rise to bone, at the DNA and protein        
  levels. Investigation of the molecular mechanisms responsible for RNA               
  syntheses by RNA polymerase III; development of Human Artificial                    
  Chromosome Vectors for use in gene transfer studies; and application of gene        
  transfer strategies to clinical manifestations of genetic diseases.                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applicants are approved for participation in the NIH General Research Loan          
  Repayment Program after the LRC determines that the applicant will conduct          
  qualified research and has qualifying educational debt. LRC approval, in part, is   
  based upon the scientific merit of the research, its priority to the research       
  institutes, and the credentials of the applicant.                                   
                                                                                      
93.233 NATIONAL CENTER ON SLEEP DISORDERS                                             
                                                                                      
RESEARCH                                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                             
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  NIH Reauthorization Act of 1993, Public Health Service Act, Section 503:            
  Subpart 2, Part C, Title IV, Section 424, 42 U.S.C. 285b et seq.                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The purpose of the Center is to support research, training, health information      
  dissemination and other activities with respect to sleep and sleep disorders,       
  including biological and circadian rhythm research, basic understanding of          
  sleep, chronobiological and other sleep related research; and to coordinate the     
  activities of the Center with related activities of other Federal agencies, public  
  and nonprofit organizations.                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants may support salaries, equipment, supplies, travel, and patient               
  hospitalization as required to perform the research effort. Restrictions or         
  limitations are imposed against the use of funds for entertainment, foreign travel, 
  general-purpose equipment, alterations and renovations, and other items not         
  regularly required for the performance of research. National Research Service       
  Awards (NRSAs) are made directly to individuals for research training in            
  specified biomedical shortage areas. Grants may be made to institutions to          
  enable them to make NRSAs to individuals selected by them. Certain service          
  and payback provisions apply to individuals upon termination of the award.          
  SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-months' duration) are to establish the      
  technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a    
  commercial product or process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the      
  research initiated in Phase I and which are likely to result in commercial          
  products or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to apply for Phase II     
  support. STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine the     
  scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed         
  cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase II funding  
  is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical   
  merit and commercial potential on Phase II application.                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Any nonprofit organization engaged in biomedical research, as well as               
  institutions or companies organized for profit, may apply for grants with the       
  exception of NRSAs. An individual may apply for a NRSA or, in some cases,           
  may qualify for a research grant if adequate facilities in which to perform the     
  research are available. SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small           
  businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not  
  dominant in the field in which research is proposed and have no more than 500       
  employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of the principal           
  investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and during the    
  conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must    
  be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant   
  application must be approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a        
  scientific review group and a national advisory council. STTR grants can be         
  awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are                 


1336                                                                            11-08

  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in
  which research is proposed and have no more that 500 employees) which
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development. At
  least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business concern
  and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and Phase II,
  the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for
  funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit and program
  relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company or institution engaged in
  biomedical research.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants for individual National Research Service Awards must be citizens of
  the United States or have been admitted for permanent residency; must hold a
  doctoral degree (M.D., Ph.D., D.D.S., D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., D. Eng., or
  equivalent domestic or foreign degree); and must designate a desire for training
  in one of the health or health-related areas specified by the National Institutes of
  Health. Each applicant must be sponsored by an accredited public or private
  nonprofit institution engaged in such training. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments. For-
  profit organizations' costs are determined in accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the
  Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other grantees, costs will be determined in
  accordance with HHS regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and
  STTR grants, applicant organization (small business concern) must present in a
  research plan an idea that has potential for commercialization and furnish
  evidence that scientific competence, experimental methods, facilities,
  equipment, and funds requested are appropriate to carry out the plan. Effective
  for the December 1, 2005 submission date and beyond, all SBIR and STTR
  Phase I, Phase II, and Fast-Track grant applications must be submitted
  electronically through Grants.gov (http://www.grants.gov) using the SF424
  (R&R) forms and Application Instruction Guide. Complete SBIR and STTR
  application instructions, including requirements for electronic submission, can
  be found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Research grant applications are submitted on designated forms to the Center for
  Scientific Review, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. Forms
  for individual NRSA applications may be obtained from and submitted to the
  Division of Extramural Outreach and Information Resources, Office of
  Extramural Research, National Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive,
  Room 6207, MSC 7910, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 435-0714.
  Fax: (301) 480-0525. E-mail: asknih@od.nih.gov. For some special grant
  programs, applicants may be advised to submit directly to the Review Branch,
  Division of Extramural Affairs, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute,
  Bethesda, MD 20892. The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and
  required by 45 CFR, Part 92, must be used for this program. SBIR and STTR
  Grant Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained
  electronically through the NIH's "Small Business Funding Opportunities" home
  page at www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World Wide Web. A
  limited number of hard copies of these publications are produced. Subject to
  availability, they may be obtained by contacting the NIH support services
  contractor: phone: (301) 206-9385; fax: (301) 206-9722; E-mail:
  a2y@cu.nih.gov. The Solicitations include submission procedures, review
  considerations, and grant application or contract proposal forms. SBIR and
  STTR grant applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific
  Review, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1040 - MSC 7710, Bethesda, MD 20892-
  7710.
Award Procedure:
  All accepted applications are evaluated by an appropriate initial review group
  (study section). All grant applications receive a final secondary review by the
  National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council. Staff informs applicants of
  the results of the review. If support is contemplated, staff initiates preparation of
  awards for grants. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for
  scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer review panel and
  by a national advisory council or board. All applications receiving a priority
  score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on the basis of scientific
  and technical merit and commercial potential of the proposed research, program
  relevance, and program balance among the areas of research.
Deadlines:
  New Research Grants: February 1, June 1, and October 1 (or as specified in
  Request for Applications (RFA) announcements). Renewals and Supplementals:
  March 1, July 1, and November 1. Individual NRSAs: April 5, August 5, and
  December 10. Individual NRSA: January 10, May 10, and September 10.
  SBIR/STTR Grants: April 1, August 1, and December 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Regular Grants: From 7 to 9 months. SBIR/STTR Grants: About 7-1/2 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects
  of the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
