  programs if they exist, and a substantial number of individuals with TBI and/or    
  their family members. The grants are called "Implementation Partnership            
  Grants." These grants are to be used in building a statewide system to assure      
  access to comprehensive and coordinated TBI services. Grants can address a         
  wide range of activities and should reflect gaps or needed system change           
  identified through the statewide TBI needs assessment.                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Only State governments are eligible to apply for funding under the TBI grant       
  program. The application for Implementation Partnership funds may only come        
  from the State agency designated as the lead for TBI services. The State maternal  
  and child health program is expected to be involved in the program. Only one       
  application from each State may enter the review process and be considered for     
  an award under this program.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Individuals with TBI and their families, including those in high risk groups, such 
  as children and youth, the elderly, Native Americans and Alaska natives,           
  military service members and veterans.                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be     
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of the         
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more    
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for       
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                      
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find    
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Maternal and      
  Child Health. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final          
  selections for awards.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications are reviewed by a peer review committee of experts and persons        
  with TBI or their family members who are generally nongovernmental.                
  Applications are reviewed based on their merit and ranked according to a point     
  score. Final decisions are made by the Associate Administrator for Maternal and    
  Child Health.                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                           
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Final decisions are made approximately two to three months after receipt of        
  applications.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  No renewals; grants are approved for up to three years for Implementation          
  Grants.                                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  States must make available nonfederal cash or in-kind matching funds in an         
  amount that is not less than $1 for each $2 of Federal funds provided under the    
  grant.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Awards are made annually in accordance with the project period method of

                                                                                     
  awarding grants. Payments are made through a Letter of Credit or Cash Demand       
  System. Project periods are for one, two or three years.                           
Reports:                                                                             
  Annual program reports, financial status reports, program service reports, and     
  special reports must be submitted as required.                                     
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of        
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-   
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going           
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely  
  resolved.                                                                          
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $5,403,053; FY 08 est $5,314,680; and FY 09 est not available.      


1338                                                                           11-08

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $70,000-$200,000 $107,879.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 06, 42 total projects were funded. Six projects were added in FY 07 and
  two additional projects were supported in FY 08. The goal of the TBI State
  grant program is to assure all States and Territories have a solid and supportive
  TBI infrastructure.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Janie Martin-Heppel, Project Director, Division of Services for Children with
  Special Health Care Needs, Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health
  Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human
  Services, Room 18A-18, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:
  (301) 443-2370, E-mail: jmartin-heppel@hrsa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: 301-443-2385; Research and Training Branch:
  Telephone: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: Telephone:
  (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.127, Emergency Medical Services for Children; 93.110, Maternal and Child
  Health Federal Consolidated Programs.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  New York State Traumatic Brain Injury (TBI) Program for Culturally Competent
  TBI Services in NY City, Arizona KIDS with TBI, Oregon TBI Link Improving
  Access to Services for Individuals with TBI and Alabama an Interactive
  Community Based Model for Children with TBI.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are reviewed by nonfederal consultants who make
  recommendations to the Secretary of the Department. The Secretary will approve
  projects which best promote the purposes of TBI grants. Review criteria: The
  following review criteria apply to the State implementation grant: (1) the
  adequacy of the State's proposed method for linking its Statewide TBI Action
  Plan to the findings of the statewide needs assessment; (2) the extent to which
  the proposal reflects the involvement of necessary public/private organizations
  and agencies to assure a comprehensive approach and the necessary support to
  aid sustainability (3) the qualifications, experience, and commitment to the
  program as indicated by time that will be devoted to the program, of the
  designated lead person for TBI within the State; (4) the extent to which the
  proposed plan addresses those groups within the State that are at highest risk of
  sustaining a TBI, including, these groups, identified by the CDC: Children from
  0-4, Adolescents from 15-19, the elderly, Native Americans, and other
  underserved populations. In addition, there should be a plan to assist veterans
  and service members and their families who request assistance. (5)
  reasonableness of the proposed budget, and effectiveness of the proposed plan to
  accomplish the goals and objectives the State has for its TBI program.
93.235 ABSTINENCE EDUCATION PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Social Security Act, Title V, Section 510, 42 U.S.C. 710.
OBJECTIVES:
  To enable States to provide abstinence education and, at the option of the State,
  where appropriate, mentoring, counseling, and adult supervision to promote
  abstinence from sexual activity until marriage among teens, with a focus on
  groups that are most likely to bear children out of wedlock.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  For the purpose of this section (Section 510), the term "Abstinence Education"
  means an educational or motivational program which (a) has as its exclusive
  purpose, teaching the social, psychological, and health gains to be realized by
  abstaining from sexual activity; (b) teaches abstinence from sexual activity
  outside marriage as the expected standard for all school age children; (c) teaches
  that abstinence from sexual activity is the only certain way to avoid out-of-
  wedlock pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, and other associated health
  problems; (d) teaches that a mutually faithful monogamous relationship in
  context of marriage is the expected standard of human sexual activity; (e)
  teaches that sexual activity outside of the context of marriage is likely to have
