  harmful psychological and physical effects; (f) teaches that bearing children out  
  of wedlock is likely to have harmful consequences for the child, the child's       
  parents, and society; (g) teaches young people how to reject sexual advances and   
  how alcohol and drug use increases vulnerability to sexual advances; and (h)       
  teaches the importance of attaining self-sufficiency before engaging in sexual     
  activity.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  The Governor of each State shall determine which agency will administer the        
  Section 510 Abstinence Education program in each State. A letter from the          
  Governor, or a designee within the Governor's office, must accompany each          
  application. The application may be developed in consultation with the State       
  Maternal and Child Health Services (MCHS) Agency as outlined by (Sec 505           
  (a)(5)(F)) or soley by a social services agency within the State that is identified
  and designated by the Governor. No funding will be awarded unless the State        
  "has transmitted an application for the fiscal year under section 505(a)" of the

  Social Security Act, as required by section 510(a).                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  School-age girls and boys, adolescents, at-risk populations subject to out-of-

                                                                                     
  wedlock births, parents, youth serving professionals and families.                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Annual submission of a State application and annual report are required prior to   
  the allocation of funds.                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Funds are allocated to States by way of the letter of credit system subsequent to  
  the review and approval of the State application and annual report.                
Deadlines:                                                                           
  As specified in the announcement or application instructions.                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 1 to 2 months.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Funds will be made available annually to any State submitting an acceptable        
  application.                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Funds are allocated among the States and jurisdictions based on a formula          
  determined by the proportion that the number of low income children in the         
  State bears to the total number of low income children for all States. There is a  
  required match of 3 nonfederal dollars for every 4 Federal dollars.                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Funds are awarded each fiscal year in quarterly installments to the States and     
  Jurisdictions. States have until one full year after the end of the fiscal year to 
  fund activities with the grant due to the likelihood of State sub-contracting the  
  funds.                                                                             
Reports:                                                                             
  Each State must prepare and submit an annual report on the activities              
  undertaken. Reports will contain information and be formatted as the Secretary     
  requires in the program application guidance.                                      
Audits:                                                                              
  As described in Title V, Section 506(b)(1) of the Social Security Act, each state  
  shall, not less often than once every two years, audit its expenditures from       
  amounts received under this title.                                                 
Records:                                                                             
  Records of the recipient shall be made available to the Secretary to secure an

                                                                                     
  accurate description of the activities for which funds were spent in achieving the

                                                                                     
  purposes of this section. States shall make available copies of reports and audits

                                                                                     
  for public inspection within the State. Within 30 days following the completion

                                                                                     
  of each audit report, the State shall submit a copy of that audit report to the

                                                                                     
  Secretary.                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-1536-0-1-506.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  (Grants) FY 07 $38,673,246; FY 08 $50,000,000; and FY 09 est $50,000,000.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $13,501 to $7,055,240; $847,458.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 07, 43 grants were awarded; 59 grants are projected in FY 08 and it is       
  estimated that 59 grants will be awarded in FY 09.                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Pertinent information may be obtained by contacting the Family and Youth           
  Services Bureau, Office of Abstinence Education, Administration for Children,      
  Youth and Families, 1250 Maryland Avenue, SW, Washington, DC 20447.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Scott T. Riggins, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services; Family and         
  Youth Services Bureau; 1250 Maryland Avenue, SW Washington, DC 20447.              


                                                                                11-08
  Grants Management, Financial Management Specialist; U.S. Department of
  Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and Families, Office of
  Administration; Office of Grants Management, Division of Discretionary
  Grants, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., Washington, DC 20447.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/fysb.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.010, Community-Based Abstinence Education (CBAE); 93.111, Adolescent
  Family Life Research Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of funded projects may be requested through the Office of Abstinence
  Education.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
93.236 GRANTS FOR DENTAL PUBLIC HEALTH
RESIDENCY TRAINING
  Dental Public Health Residency Training (DPHRT) and Grants to
  States to Support Oral Health Workforce Activities (SSOHWA)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 768; Health Professions Education
  Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392 SSOHWA: Part D of Title III of
  the Public Health Service Act as amended, Subpart X, Primary Dental Programs,
  Section 340 G (42 U.S.C. 256g).
OBJECTIVES:
  To plan and develop new residency training programs and to maintain or
  improve existing residency training programs in dental public health; and to
  provide financial assistance to residency trainees enrolled in such programs. To
  improve the accessibility of the oral health workforce for underserved
  geographic areas and populations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are intended to assist in meeting the costs of planning and developing
  new dental public health residency training programs and providing financial
  assistance to trainees enrolled in the programs. Grants may not be used for
  construction or for providing direct patient services. SSOHWA: Grants are
  intended to assist activities in States that are geographically dispersed
  throughout the United States and support a group of projects that address the
  oral health workforce needs of underserved urban and rural populations. Grants
  funds may not be used to take the place of current funding for the activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An entity that offers a Dental Public Health Training Program accredited by the
  American Dental Association Commission on Dental Accreditation, such as a
  School of Public Health or Dentistry, is eligible to apply. Governmental and
  nonprofit entities, including faith-based and community-based organizations,
  that meet other eligibility requirements, are eligible to apply. Each applicant
  must demonstrate that the institution has or will have available full-time faculty
  members with training and experience in the field of dental public health and
  support from other faculty members trained in public health and other relevant
  specialties and disciplines. Eligible applicants include Governor appointed State
  government entities. Each State is limited to only one application, and must
  address one or more of twelve activities for addressing oral health workforce
  needs as contained in the authorizing legislation and program guidance for
  applicants. Applicants must have significant experience with addressing oral
  health workforce issues in underserved populations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  An entity that offers a Dental Public Health Training Program accredited by the
  American Dental Association Commission on Dental Accreditation, such as a
  School of Public Health or Dentistry, is eligible to apply. Governmental and
  nonprofit entities, including faith-based and community-based organizations,
  that meet other eligibility requirements, are eligible to apply. Beneficiaries
  include Governor appointed State government entities. It is anticipated the oral
  health workforce also will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
                                                                                 1339
