FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES                                          
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                                      
  SERVICES                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Section 1935(b)(1)(C), as amended, 42 U.S.C 300-         
  35.                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To enable project States to collect information on SAPT Block Grant funded          
  treatment services and monitor common substance abuse treatment effectiveness       
  data measures across various State management information systems (MIS).            
  This program will support evaluation programs to design or enhance State MISs       
  or Outcome Management Systems which examine treatment effectiveness and             
  costs through standardized performance and outcome measures while                   
  incorporating these common data measures on an inter-State (i.e., with the States   
  acting mutually together) basis.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds (including direct costs and allowable indirect costs) may be used only for    
  expenses clearly related and necessary to carry out approved activities that will   
  support evaluation programs to design or enhance State management                   
  information systems or outcomes monitoring systems which examine treatment          
  effectiveness and costs through standardized performance and outcome                
  measures while incorporating these common data measures on an inter-State           
  basis. Funds may not be used to supplant current funding for existing activities.   
  Funds may not be used to pay for services except for additional costs created by    
  the research and may not be used for the purchase of a facility to house any        
  portion of the proposed project. Any funds proposed for the purpose of              
  renovation expenses must be detailed and linked directly to programmatic            
  activities. Any lease arrangements in association with the proposed project         
  utilizing these funds may not extend beyond the project period or cover non-        
  programmatic activities. Construction costs are not allowed.                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Project State applicants are Single State Authorities, Technical Assistance         
  Center applicants are domestic private nonprofit (and for-profit) organizations     
  such as community-based organizations, universities, colleges, and hospitals.       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Recipients of State governments.                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  All applicants must use application form PHS 5161-1 (Rev. 7/2000).                  
  Application kits containing the necessary forms and instructions may be             
  obtained by contacting: The National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug             
  Information, P.O. Box 2345, Rockville, MD 20857 at telephone: 1 (800) 729-          
  6686. Applications will be objectively reviewed by initial review group(s)          
  composed primarily of nonfederal experts.                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Cooperative agreements in support of State applications are recommended for         
  approval by CSAT to the AOD Single State Agency. Cooperative agreements in          
  support of technical assistance center applications are recommended for             
  approval by the initial review groups and awarded by CSAT to domestic private       
  nonprofit (and for- profit) organizations such as community-based organizations,    
  universities, colleges, and hospitals.                                              
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the Headquarters Office listed below for application deadline.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  The range is from 120 days to 180 days from receipt date to award date.

Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program does not require a formula. Matching is not required.                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Applications will be accepted for a 3-year period with 12-month budget periods.     
  Annual awards will be made subject to continued availability of funds and           
  progress achieved.                                                                  
Reports:                                                                              
  Interim and final progress reports and financial status reports will be required as 
  specified in the PHS Grants Policy Statement requirements. To permit                
  compliance with the Government Performance and Results Act, grantees will be        
  required to supply necessary data about certain grant processes and/or outcomes     


1342                                                                            11-08

  in their regularly scheduled program progress reports. Instruction on the data to
  be supplied will be communicated to grantees by the funding Center shortly after
  the award is made.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative
  agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal
  government officials. In addition, 45 CFR 74.26 requires that for-profit
  recipients and subrecipients have an audit performed in accordance with
  Government Auditing Standards or Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  There is a 3-year record retention requirement. Records shall be retained beyond
  the 3-year period if the final audit has not been done or findings resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-1362-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $300,000 to $500,000; $459,839.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Zero awards for 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 96, 74 an 92 and the PHS Grants Policy Statement. Guidelines and
  instructions are included in the application kits available by request from: The
  National Clearinghouse for Alcohol an Drug Information, P.O. Box 2345,
  Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 468-2600 or 1 (800) 729-6686.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program contact: Dr. Mickey Smith, Division for State and Community
  Assistance, Center for Substance Abuse Treatment, 1 Choke Cherry Road,
  Telephone: (240) 276-2406. Grants Management contact: Kimberly Pendleton,
  Division of Grants Management, Office of Program Support, Substance Abuse
  and Mental Health Services Administration, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Room 7-
  1091 Telephone: (240) 276-1421.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.samhsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Some examples of subject areas funded are: 1) Enhancement of an Outcomes
  Monitoring System (OMS) that is sustainable, affordable and that allows
  continual tracking and reporting on the effectiveness of the State's substance
  abuse treatment providers; (2) development of a standardized approach for
  systematically measuring the performance of substance abuse treatment
  providers and the treatment outcomes of clients as they a progress through the
  State treatment system; and (3) measuring patient status in the Addiction
  Severity Index's seven domains at both baseline and at a 12-month, post baseline
  follow-up.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Project applications will be reviewed, rated and ranked. Criteria for technical
  merit review of individual projects will include: understanding the proposed
  project; merit and appropriateness of project plan; appropriateness of project
  design and analysis of plan; planning and management; reasonableness and
  appropriateness of budget; and program evaluation. In addition, the award
  criteria will include availability of Federal funds and geographic distribution
  throughout the United States.
93.239 POLICY RESEARCH AND EVALUATION GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Social Security Act, Section 1110, 42 U.S.C. 1310.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support research that is relevant to policy development and evaluation of
  current and proposed programs of interest to the Secretary, the Administration,
  and the Congress. Priorities include: (1) Issues of long-term care, disability, and
  personal assistance services, including informal care giving; (2) health care
  delivery issues including health care financing; (3) welfare reform outcomes and
  policies affecting children and youth; (4) community development; (5) science
  policy development; and (6) the reduction of poverty.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
