USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds may not be used for construction or renovation of buildings. This program    
  is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR 74, and 45 CFR 92 as well as OMB            
  Circular No. A-102 (Administrative Guidelines for States and Local                 
  Governments), and OMB Circular A-110 (Administrative Guidelines for                
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations).   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Assistance may be provided to State and local governments, institutions of         
  higher education, nonprofit organizations and individuals. Occasionally, awards    
  are made to for-profit organizations when deemed by the Assistant Secretary to     
  be consistent with the legislative intent and purpose of the program.              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Federal, State and local governments will benefit. (Note: Projects do not usually  
  provide any direct assistance to individuals.                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Nonprofit organizations must provide evidence of tax-exempt status. When           
  projects involve the collaborative efforts of more than one organization or        
  require the use of services or facilities not under the direct control of the      
  applicant, written assurances of specific support or agreements must be            
  submitted by the affected parties.                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  No preapplication coordination is required. This program is excluded from          
  coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                         
Application Procedure:

  Applications are submitted in response to specific announcements published in      
  the Federal Register. All applications must be submitted using the Department of

  Health and Human Services Standard Form 424. Each announcement provides            
  specific additional instructions regarding the contents of the narrative

  description of the project, budget justification and other required information.   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Official notice of approved application is made through the issuance of a Notice   
  of Grant Award or a Notice of Cooperative Agreement.                               
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None. Each announcement specifies the due dates applicable to that                 
  announcement.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The range is from 60 to 90 days.                                                   
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Extensions to the project period may be made if deemed appropriate by the          
  Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation.                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Awardees are required to share in the cost of projects, except where the grantee   
  is exempt by Federal statute from cost-sharing requirements. Cost-sharing          
  requirements are indicated in each grant announcement.                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants and cooperative agreements are generally funded on a 12-month basis.        
  Support beyond the first year is contingent upon acceptable evidence of            
  satisfactory progress, continuing program relevance, and the availability of       
  funds.                                                                             
Reports:                                                                             
  Grantees must submit annual progress reports. Expenditure reports are required     
  90 days after the end of each budget period. Comprehensive final reports are due   
  no later than 90 days after the completion of the projects.                        
Audits:                                                                              
  All fiscal transactions identifiable as Federal financial assistance are subject to
  audit by the DHHS audit agency.                                                    
Records:                                                                             
  In accordance with 45 CFR Part 74.53 and 45 CFR Part 92, grantees are to           
  maintain accounting records for a minimum of 3 years after the end of a budget     
  period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the 
  records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records   
  shall be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all issues which
  arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.  
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not       
  reported.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $300,000 to $1,200,000; $575,000.                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Grant administration policies (45 CFR 74 and 92) and application kits may be       
  obtained from the ASPE Grants Management Specialist, LTS, National Institute       
  of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, NIH, DEA, DHHS, 6700B Rockledge Drive,         
  Room 3220, Bethesda, MD 20892-7614. Additional information about the               
  mission and activities of the Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and   


                                                                                11-08
  Evaluation is available on its website at http://aspe.hhs.gov .
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Officer, Office of the Assistant Secretary for Planning and Evaluation;
  Department of Health and Human Services, Hubert H. Humphrey Bldg., Room
  405F, 200 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20201. Telephone: (202)
  690-8794.
Web Site Address:
  http://aspe.hhs.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In fiscal year 2005 grants were awarded to 4 States for closeout assistance of the
  State innovation grants. Funding was also provided to the national and area
  poverty centers.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The rating criteria and the weight attached to each criterion is included in the
  Federal Register announcement that requests project proposals. The criteria
  typically include such concerns as the significance and usefulness of the project;
  the appropriateness of the intervention/measurement methodology and design;
  the qualifications of personnel and the sponsoring organization; and the
  likelihood that the work plan and budget will produce the intended results.
93.240 STATE CAPACITY BUILDING
   (Site Specific Activities Cooperative Agreement Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  AGENCY FOR TOXIC SUBSTANCES AND DISEASE REGISTRY,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act
  (CERCLA) of 1980, Sections 104(i)(1)(E), (4), (6), (7), (9), (14) and (15), as
  amended; Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, 42 U.S.C.
  9604; Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, Section 3109(b) and (c), as
  amended; Hazardous and Solid Waste Amendments of 1984, 42 U.S.C. 6939 (b)
  and (c).
OBJECTIVES:
  To fulfill the mandated objectives of the Comprehensive Environmental
  Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA) and the
  Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act (SARA) of 1986, as amended,
  in coordination with Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry
  (ATSDR), by assisting public health agencies to build capacity to conduct (1)
  Health consultations, (2) public health assessments, (3) exposure investigations,
  (4) community involvement, (5) health education, and (6) public health studies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The uses are to strengthen State health agency environmental health programs.
  Services include public health assessments, consultations, exposure
  investigations, health education, and follow-up health investigations/studies.
  Funds may be expended for reasonable program purposes, such as personnel,
  travel, supplies and services. Funds for contractual services may be requested.
  However, the awardee, as the direct and primary recipient of PHS grant funds,
  must perform a substantive role in carrying out project activities and not merely
  serve as a conduit for an award to another party or provide funds to an ineligible
  party. Equipment may be purchased with cooperative agreement funds; however,
  the equipment must meet applicable Federal requirements. These funds may not
  be used by the recipient to conduct activities at any Federal site where the State
  is a party to litigation at the site.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are the official public health agencies of States or their bona
  fide agents or instrumentalities, to include the District of Columbia, American
  Samoa, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Federated
  States of Micronesia, Guam, the Northern Marina Islands, the Republic of the
  Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau, and the Federally- recognized
  Indian tribal governments.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries are individuals and/or families living in communities near or in
  proximity of Superfund sites.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  No preapplication is required. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs". An applicant should
  contact the office or Official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
                                                                                  1343
