Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applicants must use application Form PHS 5161-1. Application packets are             
  available from: Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office,             
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Rd,. Room 3000,          
  Mailstop K-75, Atlanta, GA 30341. By formal agreement, the CDC Procurement           
  and Grants Office will act for and on behalf of ATSDR on this matter.                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The Assistant Administrator, ATSDR, determines applications to be approved           
  and the priorities for funding. When an application is approved for funding, the     
  Grants Management Officer, CDC, acting as the agent for ATSDR, will prepare          
  a Notice of Award.                                                                   
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the Headquarters Office identified below for application deadlines.          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 60 to 90 days.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Awards are made for project periods from one to five years. Renewal awards           
  cannot be made beyond the project period without competition.                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no statutory formula.                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The annual awards are for a 12 month budget period within a three to five year

                                                                                       
  project period. Noncompetitive continuation awards within the project period

                                                                                       
  are made on the basis of satisfactory progress and availability of funds.

                                                                                       
Reports:

                                                                                       
  Annual progress and financial status reports are required no later than 90 days

                                                                                       
  after the end of each budget period. An original and two copies of the final

                                                                                       
  financial status and performance reports are due no later than 90 days after the

                                                                                       
  end of the project period.

                                                                                       
Audits:

                                                                                       
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June

                                                                                       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                       
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  Detailed and accurate records of travel expenditures, personnel hours and all

  other costs will be retained for at least 10 years in accordance with EPS's          
  "Superfund Financial Management and Recordkeeping Guidance for Federal               
  Agencies". Such documents may be required to provide the basis of cost               
  recovery actions or other litigation. Additionally, this documentation must be       
  available for audit or verification upon request of the office of Inspector General. 
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-8252-0-1-551.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $10,894,064; FY 08 $12,681,515; and FY 09 est $11,500,000.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $150,627 to $700,000; $350,000.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In fiscal year 2003, there were a total of 33 new competitive awards. It is          
  anticipated that there will be 33 noncompetitive continuation awards in fiscal       
  year 2004 and 2005.                                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Regulations governing this program are set forth in 45 CFR 92 and 40 CFR 35,         
  Subpart O. Guidelines are available in the application kits. PHS Grants Policy       
  Statement (Revised, April 1, 1994).                                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Ms. Joan Flesner, Public Health Analyst, Division of Health Assessment and           
  Consultation, Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry, 1600 Clifton         
  Road, NE., Mailstop F-59, Atlanta, Georgia 30333. Telephone: (770) 488-0739          
  Fax: (770) 488-1544. E-mail address: JFlesner@cdc.gov. Grants Management             
  Contact: Mildred Garner, Grants Management Officer, Procurement and Grants           
  Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road,            
  Room 3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2745. Fax: (770) 488-             
  2777.                                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.atsdr.cdc.gov.                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  States conduct public health evaluations on National Priorities List (NPL) sites,    
  sites that ATSDR have been petitioned to assess, Superfund Accelerated               
  Cleanup Model (SACM) sites, and other Comprehensive Environmental                    
  Response, Compensation, and Liability Information System (CERCLIS) sites.            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      


1344                                                                             11-08

  Applications for core activities only were reviewed and evaluated based on the
  following criteria: (1) Proposed Program: (a) Merit scientific and technical merit
  of the proposed project to perform public health assessments, consultations,
  exposure investigations, health education and public health studies consistent
  with ATSDR guidance and in a timely manner. Applicant's ability to evaluate
  the public health impact of hazardous waste sites using health, environmental,
  and demographic data, and health-related concerns from the local community.
  (b) Requirements Applicant's understanding of the requirements, objectives, and
  complexities of the interactions required for a successful program. c)
  Collaboration Applicant's plan to collaborate with political and private
  subdivisions of Federal, State, and local health and environmental agencies and
  community groups to obtain information needed for evaluating the public health
  impact of hazardous waste sites, disseminate results of findings, and prevent
  exposure if identified. (2) Program Personnel: The principal investigator or
  project director and his/her ability to devote time and effort to provide effective
  leadership, and the qualifications of the support staff. (3) Applicant Capability:
  Adequacy and commitment of institutional resources, facilities, space, and
  equipment necessary for conducting the project are available and sufficient. (4)
  Program Budget: Extent to which the budget is reasonable, clearly justified, and
  consistent with intended use of funds. The priority order for funding cooperative
  agreements was as follows: (a) Number of proposed and/or listed National
  Priority List (NPL) sites (Federal and nonfederal) based on the most current EPA
  list, (b) number of Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and
  Liability Information System (CERCLIS) sites (Federal and nonfederal) based on
  the most current EPA list; (c) applicants who applied for both Core Activities
  and optional Activities; and (d) geographic distribution across the United States.
  (5) Human Subjects: Applicant's plan for adequate protection of human subjects.
  Applications for conducting Core Plus Optional Activities were reviewed and
  evaluated based on the following criteria: Proposed Program: In addition to the
  criteria outlined above for Core Activities, the applicant had to indicate an
  understanding of and capability for conducting human health studies as
  contained in the proposed site-specific protocol which had to include: (a) The
  approach, feasibility, adequacy, and rationale for the proposed study design, (b)
  the technical merit of the proposed study, (c) the proposed timeline, including
  measurable objectives, (d) proposed method for disseminating the results of the
  study.
93.241 STATE RURAL HOSPITAL FLEXIBILITY
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Section 4201, Public Law 105-33. Reauthorized
  in 2003 in Public Law 108-173.
OBJECTIVES:
  To help States work with rural communities and hospitals to develop and
  implement a rural health plan, designate critical access hospitals (CAHs),
  develop integrated networks of care, improve emergency medical services and
  improve quality, service and organizational performance.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  All funds awarded are to be expended solely for the purposes outlined in the
  approved projects.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States that have submitted a State Rural Health Plan to the Centers for Medicare
  and Medicaid Services (CMS) can apply. All other States need to submit an
  application to the Regional Administrator of their CMS Regional Office that
  expresses the State's interest in developing a Medicare Rural Hospital Flexibility
  Program before they can apply for grant funds.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States with at least one hospital located in a non-metropolitan statistical area or
  county and provides CMS with necessary assurances.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Office of Rural Health.
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for
  awards.
Award Procedure:
