  Applications are evaluated by Federal and nonfederal experts. All acceptable     
  applications will be funded. Final decisions on level of funding are made by the 
  Director, Office of Rural Health Policy.                                         
Deadlines:                                                                         
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  From 3 to 5 months.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                            
Renewals:                                                                          
  Flex grant awards may be made for up to 3-year project periods. Subject to       
  availability of funds, after initial awards, projects may be renewed non-        
  competitively contingent upon submission and approval of an application,         
  availability of appropriated funds, and awardee's satisfactory performance.      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  None.                                                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Awards are made annually. Funds are available to grantees on an as needed basis  
  throughout the budget period and payments are made through the DHHS              
  Payment Management System.                                                       
Reports:                                                                           
  A performance progress report is submitted with each noncompeting                
  continuation application. A financial status report is to be submitted within 90 
  days after the close of the budget period. A final program report is to be       
  submitted within 90 days after the close of the project period. In addition,     
  grantees are required to participate in a national program evaluation.           
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                  
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit         
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a    
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, 
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                           
Records:                                                                           
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of      
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3- 
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going         
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                            
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Flex Grants) FY 07 $22,050,000, FY 08 est $21,600,000; and FY 09 est

                                                                                   
  $21,600,000.

                                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  $260,000 to $650,000; $490,000.

                                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                   
  In FY 07, 45 continuation awards were made to States. It is estimated that 45

                                                                                   
  awards will be made in FY 08 and FY 09.

                                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                   
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and

                                                                                   
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,

                                                                                   
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as

  applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                   
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                   
  Program Contact: Steve Hirsch, Office of Rural Health Policy, Health Resources

                                                                                   
  and Services Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 9A-55, Rockville, MD

                                                                                   
  20857. Telephone: (301) 443-0835.

                                                                                   
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                   
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants

                                                                                   
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,

                                                                                   
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.

                                                                                   
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)

                                                                                   
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.

                                                                                   
Web Site Address:

                                                                                   
  www.hrsa.gov

RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  None.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  States have increasingly used their Flex resources for EMS activities, including 
  training programs, needs assessments, and network building.                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Contact Headquarters for selection criteria.                                     
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
93.242 MENTAL HEALTH RESEARCH GRANTS                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                          
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     


                                                                              11-08
  Public Health Service Act, Title III, Section 301, Public Law 78-410, 42 U.S.C.
  241, as amended; Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act
  of 2000, Public Law 106-554.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase knowledge of basic brain and behavioral processes that underlie
  mental and behavioral disorders; to support epidemiological studies of biological
  and environmental risk factors; to translate basic and epidemiological research
  into the development of new diagnostics and interventions for preventing and
  treating mental disorders; to conduct clinical trials for testing the efficacy and
  effectiveness of interventions in controlled and real-world settings; and to
  conduct research to improve mental health service delivery and use. Research
  supported by the National Institute of Mental Health may employ theoretical,
  laboratory, clinical, epidemiological, and field studies. Studies may involve
  individuals with a mental disorder diagnosis, individuals with symptom levels
  that do not meet diagnostic thresholds, and healthy individuals of all ages.
  Research also may involve animal, computational, and mathematical models
  appropriate to the system being investigated and the state of the field. Areas
  eligible for research support are: basic and clinical neuroscience; genetics;
  geriatrics research; adult psychopathology; experimental therapeutics;
  developmental, behavioral, clinical, and epidemiological research relevant to
  mental disorders, behavioral disorders, and HIV/AIDS, in terms of the causes,
  prevention, treatment, and service delivery; basic (brain and behavior), clinical,
  and services research on the mental health problems of women, minorities, and
  rural populations; and research designed to eliminate mental health disparities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  (1) Research project grants provide support for clearly defined projects by a
  named investigator in an area representing his/her specific interests and
  competencies. (2) Exploratory/Development and Clinical
  Exploratory/Developmental Grants encourage the development of new research
  activities in categorical program areas; (3) Small Research Grants provide
  research support specifically limited in time and amount for studies in
  categorical program areas; (4) Collaborative Clinical Research Grants support
  evaluations of various methods of therapy and/or prevention; (5) Program
  Project and Center grants support large-scale, broad-based programs of research,
  usually interdisciplinary, consisting of several projects with a common focus;
  and (6) Cooperative Agreements support single or a group of related research
  activities with greater involvement of federal staff. Standard small grants are
  limited to $50,000 direct costs for a period of 2 years or less, while other small
  grants are for less time and funds. SBIR and STTR grants are awarded in two
  stages: Phase I grants are awarded to establish the technical merit and feasibility
  of a proposed research and development effort; only Phase I awardees are
  eligible to receive Phase II support.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public, private, profit, or nonprofit agencies (including State and local
  government agencies), eligible Federal agencies, universities, colleges, hospitals,
  and academic or research institutions may apply for research grants. SBIR grants
  can be awarded only to domestic small businesses, and STTR grants can be
  awarded only to domestic small businesses which "partner" with a research
  institution in cooperative research and development. For further definitions,
  requirements, and restrictions see the SBIR and STTR Omnibus Solicitations of
  the NIH, CDC, and FDA for SBIR and STTR Grant Applications.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public, private, profit, or nonprofit organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. For-profit organizations' costs will be determined in
  accordance with 48 CFR, Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
  For all other grantees, costs will be determined in accordance with HHS
  Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and STTR grants, applicant
  organization (small business concern) must present in a research plan an idea
  that has potential for commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific
  competence, experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested
  are appropriate to carry out the plan. Instructions for electronic submission may
  be found with the federal SF424 (R&R) form packages that are found in the
  SBIR/STTR funding opportunity announcements. Instructions are provided for
  SBIR Phase I and Phase II awards, respectively; as well as for STTR Phase I and
  Phase II awards, respectively.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Most applications must be prepared and submitted electronically. Most
  applicants use the SF 424 (Research & Related) for electronic submission.
  Information about the SF 424 form may be found on
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/424/index.htm, but application packages
  should be accessed through the appropriate funding opportunity announcement,
  found either on the NIH Guide to Grants and Contracts
  (http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/guide/index.html) or through the Grants.gov
  website (http://www.grants.gov/). Some institutions may submit the grant data
                                                                                  1345
