OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  (1) Institutions Clinical Training Grants: To encourage mental health specialists 
  to work in areas and settings where severe shortages exist; to increase the       
  number of qualified minority personnel in the mental health professions, and the  
  number of mental health personnel trained to deal with the special problems of    
  children, adolescents, the elderly, the seriously mentally ill, and rural         
  populations; and to assure that the skills and knowledge of mental health         
  personnel are appropriate to the needs of those they serve. (2) State Human       
  Resource Development (HRD) Grants: To assist State mental health authorities      
  in the development of human resources.                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Grant funds may be used by Clinical Training grantees: (1) To defray institution  
  costs of the training program (personnel, supplies, equipment, travel, and other  
  necessary expenses) according to formula: $10,008 per predoctoral trainee,        
  $19,608 to $32,300 per postdoctoral trainee depending on years of relevant        
  experience; and (2) to provide trainee stipends and other allowances (tuition and 
  fees, etc.) for individuals enrolled in the training program. Funds may be used   
  only for expenses directly related to the training program. Individual Faculty    
  Scholar Awards: Salary support, $25,000 in educational expenses, etc. State       
  HRD Grants: Varies according to project.                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Grants are awarded to public or private nonprofit institutions and organizations, 
  and State and local government agencies for training relevant to mental health    
  service priorities in the mental health disciplines of psychiatry, psychology,    
  social work, psychiatric nursing, marriage and family therapy and in specialized  
  areas of high priority and need such as State manpower development projects;      
  and for State mental health agencies to plan, implement, and evaluate systems     
  for mental health services manpower development. Trainees in psychology,          
  psychiatry, psychiatric nursing, social work, or marriage and family therapy      
  unless training program is of limited duration or experimental nature, will be    
  subject to payback requirements of Section 303 of the PHS Act.                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Trainee stipends may be awarded only to citizens or nationals of the United       
  States, or to persons lawfully admitted for permanent residence. Individuals      
  seeking trainee stipend support must apply directly to and be accepted by the     
  training institution, and submit an acceptable statement of appointment of        
  Trainee Form (PHS-2271) a payback agreement, and a Statement of Non-              
  Delinquency on Federal Debt Certification.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State       
  and local governments. For other grantees, costs will be determined in            
  accordance with HHS Regulation 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q.                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR,       
  Part 92 (PHS 5161-1), must be used for applicants that are State and local        
  governments. Application kits, containing the necessary forms and instructions    
  for completing the forms, may be obtained from Grants Management Branch,          
  Center for Mental Health Services (CMHS). Consultation on a proposed project      
  may be obtained from the CMHS branch or center responsible for the training       
  area of interest. Applications are reviewed by nonfederal consultants recruited   
  nationwide from the mental health field. Amount of award and period of support    
  are determined on basis of merit; must also be reviewed by the Center for Mental  
  Health Services Advisory Council. This program is subject to the provisions of    
  45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-110        
  for nonprofit organizations.                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Grants in support of approved applications are awarded directly to the applicant  
  institution by the Center for Mental Health Services.

Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact the CMHS Headquarters Office for application deadlines.                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Approximately 180 days after submission of application.                           
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Support of an approved project is recommended for a specified project period,     
  usually not in excess of 3 years. Prior to termination of the project period,     
  grantee may submit application for renewal of support which is processed as a     
  competing renewal application.                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Time frames are variable, but project period is generally limited to 5 years or   
  less. Grantee may apply for renewal of support on a competing basis. Within       
  project period a continuation application must be submitted on a noncompeting     
  basis for each year of support. Payments will be made either on a Monthly Cash    


1348                                                                          11-08

  Request System or under an Electronic Transfer System. Necessary instructions
  for the appropriate type of payment will be issued shortly after an award is made.
Reports:
  Reports must be submitted as follows: (1) Interim progress reports annually as
  part of a non-competing application for previously recommended support; (2) A
  final progress report within 90 days after end of the project period; (3) Annual
  financial status report within 90 days after the end of the budget period. Trainees
  incurring the payback obligation upon completion of training, report annually on
  previous year's activities related to service that fulfills payback obligation.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, 45 CFR Part 74.26 requires
  that for-profit recipients and subrecipients have an audit performed in
  accordance with Government Auditing Standards or Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records must be retained for at least 3 years; records shall be retained beyond
  the 3-year period if audit findings have not been resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-1362-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $225,000 to $300,000; $250,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Six grants were awarded in fiscal years 2005. Six awards are anticipated in
  fiscal year 2006 and fiscal year 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  42 CFR 64. Guidelines are included in application kits. PHS Grants Policy
  Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Clinical, Anne Mathews-Younes, Ed. D., Human Resource
  Planning and Development Branch, Center for Mental Health Services,
  SAMHSA, Department of Health and Human Services, 1 Choke Cherry
  Road,Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (240) 276-1837. Program Contact:
  AIDS Training, Barbara J. Silver, Ph.D., HIV/AIDS Program, CMHS,
  SAMHSA, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (240) 276-
  1962. Grants Management Contact: Kimberly Pendleton, Grants Management
  Officer, SAMHSA, Department of Health and Human Services, 1 Choke Cherry
  Road, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (240) 276-1421.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.samhsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.282, Mental Health National Research Service Awards for Research
  Training.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Psychosocial pediatrics for primary care physicians; (2) social work training
  in community mental health; (3) a graduate program in nursing for ethnic
  minorities; (4) training foster parents as mental health workers; and (5) an
  interdisciplinary mental health care education program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The following criteria will be used in determining projects to be funded: (1)
  Technical merit; (2) facilities and environment for the training program; (3)
  previous training records; (4) relevance to CMHS priorities; and (5) potential
  contribution to mental health field.
93.247 ADVANCED EDUCATION NURSING GRANT
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VIII, Section 811, 42 U.S.C. 296j, as amended;
  Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.
OBJECTIVES:
  Grants are awarded to eligible institutions for projects that support the
  enhancement of advanced nursing education and practice including master's and
  doctoral programs, combined RN/ master's degree programs, post-nursing
  master's certificate programs, or in the case of nurse mid-wives, in certificate
  programs in existence on November 12, 1998, to serve as nurse practitioners,
  clinical nurse specialists, nurse-midwives, nurse anesthetists, nurse educators,
  nurse administrators, public health nurses, or in other nurse specialties
  determined by the Secretary to require advanced education.
