TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  To meet the costs of projects that support the enhancement of advanced nursing     
  education and practice. For salaries of personnel specifically employed for the    
  project; consultant fees; supplies and equipment necessary to conduct the          
  project; essential travel expenses and other expenses related to the project.      
  Restricted uses: Indirect costs are allowed for administrative costs incurred as a 
  result of the project, limited to eight percent of direct costs. Student support   
  through stipends, tuition, and fees is not eligible for support.                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants are collegiate schools of nursing, academic health centers,    
  and other private or public nonprofit entities accredited by a recognized body or  
  bodies or State agency, approved for the purpose of nursing education by the       
  Secretary of Education.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Accredited schools of nursing, academic health centers and other public or         
  private entities.                                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be     
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find    
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health            
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final           
  selections for awards.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Notification is made in writing through a Notice of Grant Award issued from the    
  Headquarters Office.

Deadlines:

  www.hrsa.gov.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 6 months after receipt of applications.                              
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.

                                                                                     
Renewals:

                                                                                     
  Competitive continuations may be submitted during the final budget period of

                                                                                     
  the approved project period.

                                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                     
  Project periods for both new and competing continuation applications are for 3

                                                                                     
  years.

                                                                                     
Reports:

  A progress report must be submitted for the second and subsequent budget           
  periods within an approved project period. Financial Status Reports are required   
  within 90 days after the end of each budget period. A final progress report and    
  final financial status report must be submitted within 90 days after the end of the
  project period.                                                                    
                                                                                     
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
                                                                                     
Records:

  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of        
                                                                                     
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-

                                                                                     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going

                                                                                     
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely

                                                                                     
  resolved.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  75-0350-0-1-550.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

  FY 07 $35,598,564 (49 competing and 85 non-competing awards); FY 08                
  $40,697,432 (56 new and 94 non-competing continuation awards); FY 09 est           
  $40,697,432 (40 new and 90 non-competing continuations).                           
                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  FY 08: Range is $89,246 to $618,150; Average is $271,316.                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 2007, there were 134 grantees awarded with an estimated 5,978 students       
  enrolled for the fall 2006 reporting period.                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             


                                                                                11-08
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Dr. Irene Sandvold, Division of Nursing, Bureau of Health Professions, Health
  Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human
  Services, Parklawn Building, Room 8-C26, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD
  20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6333.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.124, Nurse Anesthetist Traineeships; 93.358, Advanced Education Nursing
  Traineeships.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Nurse Practitioner and Nurse-Midwifery education programs; Clinical Nurse
  Specialist projects; programs in nurse anesthetist education, nurse educator,
  nurse administrator, public health nursing, and other nurse specialists
  determined by the Secretary to require advanced nurse education.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Project purposes must be consistent with and promote the purpose identified in
  the Law. Need must be documented, and the capability of achieving project
  goals must be described. In making awards of grants under this Section,
  preference will be given to any qualified applicant with a project that will
  substantially benefit rural or underserved populations, or help meet public health
  nursing needs in State or local health departments. This preference will only be
  applied to applications that rank above the 20th percentile of applications
  recommended for approval.
93.249 PUBLIC HEALTH TRAINING CENTERS GRANT
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 766, 42 U.S.C. 295a, as amended;
  Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve the Nation's public health system by strengthening the technical,
  scientific, managerial and leadership competencies and capabilities of the
  current and future public health workforce. Emphasis is placed on developing
  the existing public health workforce as a foundation for improving the
  infrastructure of the public health system and helping achieve the Healthy
  People 2010 Objectives. With respect to a public health training center,
  applicants must agree to: (1) specifically designate a geographic area, including
  medically underserved populations, e.g., elderly, immigrants/refugees,
  disadvantaged, to be served by the Center that shall be in a location removed
  from the main location of the teaching facility of the school participating in the
  program with a Center; (2) assess the public health personnel needs of the area
  to be served by the Center and assist in the planning and development of training
  programs to meet their needs; (3) establish or strengthen field placements for
  students in public or nonprofit private public health agencies or organizations;
  and (4) involve faculty members and students in collaborative projects to
  enhance public health services to medically underserved communities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds may support salaries, consultant costs, equipment, and travel as
  requested to develop and implement a Public Health Training Center. Grant
  funds may not be used for construction, patient services, nor student tuition or
  stipends.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Accredited schools of public health or other public or nonprofit private
  institutions accredited for the provision of graduate or specialized training in
  public health may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Accredited schools of public health or other public or nonprofit private
  institutions accredited for the provision of graduate or specialized training will
  benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
                                                                                 1349
