  FY 07: Each award was $64,153 and in FY 08 each award was $65,629; and in             
  FY 09 each awardee will receive an estimated $67,139.                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  FY 07, 88 new competing awards; FY 08, 87 non-competing continuation                  
  awards; and FY 09 an estimated 87 non-competing continuation awards are               
  expected.                                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and      
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,           
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as             
  applicable.                                                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  CDR Young Song, Senior Program Management Consultant, Division of                     
  Nursing, Health Resources and Services Administration, Room 8C-26, 5600               
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6333.                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                  
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                  
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.              
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)           
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                        
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Recipients of the Geriatric Academic Career Awards have chosen a wide range           
  of topics in geriatric care to devote to their teaching including, for example:       
  overall geriatric assessment; geriatric rehabilitation; interdisciplinary care for the
  chronically ill and the development of chronic disease state "glide paths";           
  effective clinical teaching of palliative care for the elderly; geropharmacy and      
  nutrition; acute care of the elderly; culturally competent care of the elderly;       
  infection control interventions in long-term care; development of reviews on          
  organ system normative aging; special issues in the delivery of rural health care     
  by family practitioners and in the design and implementation of community-            
  based programs that allow the frail elderly to remain in their homes. Awardee         
  activities include traditional academic activities such as curriculum development     
  and participation in administrative duties at their medical schools; providing        
  care and teaching in a wide range of clinical settings; clinical research;            
  participating in educational programs to build their own skills; providing            
  continuing education to already practicing health professionals and working           
  with other sponsored health education programs.                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  (1) Extent to which the applicant's career goals as identified in the career          
  development plan meet the purpose of the Geriatric Academic Career Award to           
  develop into an academic geriatrician who emphasizes teaching geriatrics,             
  including teaching interdisciplinary teams; (2) the extent to which the applicant's   
  previous training and experience will contribute to the achievement of the goals,     
  objectives, and plans described in the applicant's Career Development Plan; and       
  (3) the commitment and expertise of the mentor and institution to provide a           
  supportive environment for the achievement of the applicant's career goals and        
  willingness to meet reporting requirements.                                           
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
93.251 UNIVERSAL NEWBORN HEARING SCREENING                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                         
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Section 399M of the Public Health Service Act.                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  This program supports state programs for reducing the loss to follow-up of            
  infants who have not passed a physiologic newborn hearing screening                   
  examination prior to discharge from the newborn nursery. Although more than           
  95% of newborns are screened for hearing loss in the first few days of life,          
  nationally about 20-40% of infants for whom further assessment is indicated do        
  not return for follow-up. This funding opportunity is to initiate new activities to   
  significantly reduce this loss to follow-up. Support is also provided to one          
  national technical resource center.                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  This program supports state programs for reducing the loss to follow-up of            
  infants who have not passed a physiologic newborn hearing screening                   
  examination prior to discharge from the newborn nursery. Although more than           
  95% of newborns are screened for hearing loss in the first few days of life,          
  nationally about 20-40% of infants for whom further assessment is indicated do        
  not return for follow-up. This funding opportunity is to initiate new activities to   
  significantly reduce this loss to follow-up. Applicants should have a relationship    
  with both the Title V programs and the Early Intervention programs.                   


                                                                                   11-08
Applicant Eligibility:
  Grants to States and one grant to an organization that will provide technical
  assistance to the States.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State organizations will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office of the
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Maternal and
  Child Health. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by a committee of experts that are generally
  nongovernmental. Applications are reviewed based on merit and are ranked
  according to a point score. Final decisions are made by the Associate
  Administrator, Maternal and Child Health Bureau.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Final decisions are made 2 to 3 months after receipt of applications.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Project periods for are for 3-5 years. The submission of a progress report and
  budgetary information will be requested for each continuation year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made annually, in accordance with the project period method of
  awarding grants. Payments are made through a Letter-of-Credit or Cash Demand
  System.
Reports:
  Annual program reports, financial status reports, program service reports, and
  special reports must be submitted as required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 est 8,453,000; FY 08 est $8,472,682; and FY 09 $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $99,404 to $900,000; $156,544.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Fifty-four State projects and one national technical assistance project were
  awarded in fiscal year 2007. In 2007, 93% of infants born in the U. S. were
  screened for hearing loss prior to hospital discharge. While timely follow-up has
  improved slightly, obstacles remain. It is anticipated that 49 State projects and
  the technical assistance project will be funded in fiscal year 2008, and two new
  State/territory awards are expected. The technical resource cooperative
  agreement also receives support.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
                                                                                1351
