  Irene Forsman, Integrated Services Branch, Division of Services for Children        
  with Special Health Needs, Maternal and Child Health Bureau, Health                 
  Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human               
  Services, Room 18A-18, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:           
  (301) 443-9023.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.            
  Health Services Branch: 301-443-2385; Research and Training Branch;                 
  Telephone: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch; Telephone:          
  (301) 443-3288.                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Funds have been awarded to State health agencies for implementation of              
  universal statewide newborn hearing screening prior to hospital discharge with      
  linkages to a medical home, audiologic diagnosis by 3 months of age, enrollment     
  in a program of early intervention services and linked to family support by 6       
  months of age for infants identified with hearing loss.                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The objective review of all applications includes thorough and consistent           
  examinations of each submission by persons knowledgeable in the field for that      
  support is requested and has no direct relationship with the organization or        
  individual submitting the application and do not have personal or invested          
  interest in the award of a grant to that organization or individual. Peer review is 
  a system that uses reviewers that are the professional equals of the principal      
  investigator or program director and will be responsible for directing or           
  conducting the proposed project. That is a form of objective review. Reviewers      
  may be Federal or nonfederal. Final review criteria are included in the             
  application kit.                                                                    
                                                                                      
93.252 HEALTHY COMMUNITIES ACCESS PROGRAM                                             
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C 256), Title 111, Subpart V, Section 340.        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide assistance to communities and consortia of health care providers and     
  others to develop or strengthen integrated community health care delivery           
  systems that coordinate health care services for individuals who are uninsured or   
  underinsured, and to develop or strengthen activities related to providing          
  coordinated care for individuals with chronic conditions who are uninsured or       
  underinsured.                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds received under the Healthy Communities Access Program (HCAP) are not          
  intended to be used to supplant/replace existing Federal categorical programs       
  that support entities providing services to low-income populations. Grant funds     
  may support justified direct expenses associated with achieving the greater         
  integration of and/or to fill identified or documented gaps in the health care      
  delivery system, so that the proposed integrated delivery system either directly    
  provides or ensures the provision of a broad range of culturally competent          
  services, as appropriate, including primary, secondary, and tertiary services, as   
  well as substance abuse treatment and mental health services. No more than 15       
  percent of funds provided under the award may be used to provide direct patient

                                                                                      
  care and services. Direct patient care and services include: the provision of       
  patient care services or supplies that are ordinarily reimbursable (e.g., exams,    
  therapy sessions, pharmaceuticals); primary care site development or service        
  expansions (e.g., extended clinic hours); capital equipment used for                
  reimbursable patient care and services (e.g., radiology equipment, ambulances).     
  Grant funds may NOT be used for construction, reserve requirements for state        
  insurance licensure or support for lobbying/advocacy efforts.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  For an entity to be eligible to receive a new HCAP award, all of the following      
  three requirements must be met: 1. The applicant entity must represent a            
  consortium whose principal purpose is to provide a broad range of coordinated       
  health care services to their defined community's uninsured and underinsured        
  populations. 2. The community-wide consortium represented by the applicant          
  entity must include at least one of each of the following providers that serve the  
  stated community, unless such provider does not exist, declines or refuses to       
  participate, or places unreasonable conditions on its participation: A Federally    
  qualified health center (as defined in section 1861(aa) of the Social Security Act  
  (42 U.S.C. 1395x(aa)); A hospital with a low-income utilization rate (as defined    
  in section 1923(b)(3) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396r-4(b)(3)), that    


1352                                                                            11-08

  is greater than 25 percent; A public health department; and An interested public
  or private sector health care provider or an organization that has traditionally
  served the medically uninsured and underserved. 3. The applicant entity is
  neither a current HCAP grantee nor former Community Access Program (CAP)
  grantee and is proposing to serve either a service area or target population of
  uninsured and underinsured individuals that has not been exclusively served by
  a former CAP or current HCAP grant. In addition to the required consortium
  members listed above, the community-wide consortium should seek partners
  from all levels of care who provide a range of services (e.g., preventive and
  primary care, specialty medical care, mental health and substance abuse
  services, oral health, HIV/AIDS care, social services, transportation, health
  education), as appropriate for the needs of the community's uninsured and
  underinsured populations. Existing grantees that have received three
  consecutive years of funding may request a grant award for not more than one
  additional fiscal year ONLY under demonstrated extraordinary circumstances.
  Extraordinary circumstances are an event(s) outside of the control of the eligible
  entity where the event(s) and impact, or impact alone, occurred during the
  current budget period and directly prevented the completion of measurable
  objectives and activities set forth in the applicant's approved grant application.
  Extraordinary circumstances are limited to: 1) natural disasters, 2) major
  security or health disruptions, or 3) significant economic deteriorations in the
  community served that directly and adversely affects the applicant's HCAP
  project.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Examples of eligible applicants that may apply on behalf of or participate as
  members of the community-wide consortium include, but are not limited to:
  Consolidated Health Center Program including Community Health Centers
  (CHC), Migrant Health Centers (MHC), Health Care for the Homeless (HCH),
  Public Housing Primary Care (PHPC) and School-Based Health Centers
  (SBHC); Rural Health Clinics; free and partial pay clinics; FQHC Look-Alikes;
  local public health departments and other local government agencies; Tribal
  governments; public and private hospitals; private provider or group practices;
  foundations; medical and dental societies; small business organizations; faith
  and/or community based nonprofit organizations; Primary Care Associations
  (PCA); Area Health Education Centers (AHEC); universities; and any other
  relevant stakeholders.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Primary
  Health Care. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Each applicant will receive written notification of the outcome of the objective
  review process, including summary of the expert committee's assessment of the
  application's merits and weaknesses, and whether the application was selected
  for funding. Applicants who are selected for funding may be required to respond
  in a satisfactory manner to Conditions placed on their application before funding
  can proceed. Letters of notification do not provide authorization to begin
  performance. The Notice of Grant Award, which is signed by the Grants
  Management Officer and is sent to the applicant agency's Authorized
  Representative, is the authorizing document.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  No match or cost-sharing required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to a 3-year Project period with a 12-month budget period for new HCAP
  grantees, depending upon the availability of Federal dollars. Receipt of
  continuation funding is contingent on reasonable and demonstrable progress in
  meeting the goals and measurable objectives set forth in the entity's grant
  application for the budget period for the preceding fiscal year, annual fund
  availability and a determination by the awarding office that continued funding of
  the grant is in the best interest of the Government. No eligible entity funded
  under HCAP may receive funds for more than three consecutive fiscal years
  except that entities may request a grant award for not more than one additional
