  fiscal year (a 4th year of funding) under demonstrated extraordinary                 
  circumstances. Extraordinary circumstances are an event (or events) outside of       
  the control of the eligible entity that has prevented the eligible entity from       
  fulfilling the objectives described by such entity in their approved grant           
  application for the budget period for the preceding fiscal year. Granting of 4th     
  year funding under extraordinary circumstances is contingent on demonstrated         
  extraordinary circumstances whose event(s) and impact, or impact alone,              
  occurred during the previous budget period and directly prevented the                
  completion of goals and measurable objectives set forth in the entity's approved     
  grant application for the budget period for the preceding fiscal year. In order to   
  justify such a request, there must be available funds and a determination by the     
  awarding office that continued funding of the grant is in the best interest of the   
  Government and necessary to further the objectives of the HCAP program.              
  Funds may be available to existing HCAP grantees that have experienced an            
  extraordinary circumstance where the event(s) and impact, or impact alone: (1)       
  occurred during the previous budget period; and (2) directly prevented the           
  completion of goals and measurable objectives set forth in the applicants'           
  approved application may request funds in an amount up to 70 percent of their        
  previous year's Continuation Award.                                                  
Reports:                                                                               
  Grantees are required to submit an annual report that describes the utilization      
  costs of services provided under the grant, and provide such other information as    
  the Secretary determines appropriate. Financial status reports are required no       
  later than 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final financial status and   
  progress reports are due 90 days after the end of a project period.                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                       
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of

  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going             
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely    
  resolved.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not         
  available.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $355,000 to $1,200,000.                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  No grants will be funded in FY 07, FY 08, or FY 09.                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and     
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,          
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.               
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                 
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                 
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.             
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)          
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants

                                                                                       
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                 
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.             
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)          
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                       
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Please refer to the CAP Web site (www.bphc.hrsa.gov/cap) for information

                                                                                       
  about HCAP.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  All applications meeting the deadline will be reviewed initially for eligibility and

                                                                                       
  conformance. Those applications that are determined to be ineligible,

                                                                                       
  incomplete, or non-responsive will be returned to the applicant without further

                                                                                       
  consideration. An Objective Review Committee (ORC) will assess each HCAP

                                                                                       
  application based on the review criteria. The maximum score is 100 points. The

                                                                                       
  ORC will review the supporting program specific forms and appendices listed at

                                                                                       
  the end of each review criteria, however, these documents are supplementary in

                                                                                       
  nature and will not be scored. Failure to address the criteria may result in the

                                                                                       


                                                                                 11-08 
  application being recommended for disapproval by the ORC. The following are
  the categories for the criterion that will be used to assess each application for
  funding for a new HCAP grant: 1 - need (20 Points); 2 - resources/capabilities
  (15 Points); 3 - response (25 Points); 4 - evaluative measures (15 points); 5 -
  impact (15 points); 6 - support requested (10 Points). Specifics regarding the
  review criteria will be made available in the application guidance. HCAP
  grantees applying for fourth-year funding under extraordinary circumstances
  must demonstrate the impact of their extraordinary circumstances as well as
  respond to the following four competing continuation review criteria: 1 - specific
  program criteria (35 Points); 2 - response (40 Points); 3 - impact (15 Points);
  and 4: support requested (10 Points). Those competing continuation applications
  that are determined to be eligible, complete and responsive will have the
  demonstration of extraordinary circumstances component of the application
  evaluated by an Objective Review Committee (ORC). Initially, the ORC will
  evaluate the responses presented and any supporting documentation of the
  extraordinary circumstance to determine if the applicant meets the provision for
  extraordinary circumstances. If the ORC determines the applicant does meet the
  provision for extraordinary circumstances, the technical merits of the proposal
  will be evaluated by the ORC using the competing continuation review criteria
  presented in this program guidance with points assigned up to a maximum of
  100 points total. If the ORC determines the applicant does not meet the
  provision for extraordinary circumstances, the technical merits of the application
  will not be reviewed and therefore, not selected for competing continuation
  funding. Please note, a determination by the ORC that the applicant meets the
  provision for extraordinary circumstances is not a guarantee of selection for
  funding. Applicants that meet the provision for extraordinary circumstances will
  be selected for funding based on the technical merits of the proposal using the
  100-point competing continuation review criteria presented in the program
  guidance.
93.253 POISON CONTROL STABILIZATION AND
ENHANCEMENT GRANTS
   (Poison Control Centers, PCC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Poison Control Centers Enhancement and Awareness Act, Amendments of 2003,
  Public Law 108-194.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist in the promotion of financial stability for poison control centers,
  support certification of uncertified centers,, and improve or increase accessibility
  to poison prevention and control programs and services.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance provided under this program may be used to support efforts to
  stabilize their funding structure and improve or increase accessibility to poison
  prevention and treatment programs and services of PCCs (financial stabilization
  grants); support certification efforts of non-certified centers in order to improve
  access to poison education, prevention, and treatment services (certification
  grants); and encourage the development and implementation of innovations or
  improvements that expand the organizational capacity of PCCs by strengthening
  their operational infrastructure, improving their ability to increase access to high
  quality services and promoting poison prevention education and outreach to
  high-risk and underserved populations(incentive grants. Only certified poison
  control centers are eligible to receive an incentive grant.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State-designated Poison Control Centers.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Residents of the 50 United States, Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, the
  U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Somoa, and the Federated States of
  Micronesia.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office of the
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov website at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
                                                                                   1353
