Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  From $734,407 to $4,228,357; $1,621,333.                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In Fiscal Year 2006, there were six programs funded for five years under the      
  Infant Adoption Awareness Program. The national program was awarded to            
  Spaulding for Children. There were five regional programs funded. Harmony         
  Adoptions of Tennessee, Inc. will train health care workers in the eight states in
  DHHS Region IV. Lutheran Social Services of South Dakota will conduct             
  training in the six states in DHHS Region VIII. Arizona's Children Association    
  will train workers in Arizona and Nevada.The National Council for Adoption        
  will conduct Infant adoption awareness training for Region                        
  III(DE,DC,MD,PA,VA,WV). Latino Family Institute, Inc. will train services in      
  11 highly populated, multicultural counties in south California. Spaulding will   
  contract with adoption agencies in the remaining states and territories to conduct
  the required training. A Unified Adoption Curriculum has been developed and       
  each of the funded programs will base their training approach on that document.   
  In addition, the training has been translated into Spanish and the Latino Family  
  Institute, Inc will review the document for cultural appropriateness.Part B of the
  Children's Health Act supports the Adoption Photo Listing. Funds were awarded     
  in FY 2006 and will continued based on the availabily of funds through 2011.      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  None.                                                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Pat Campiglia, Administration on Children, Youth and Families, Children's         
  Bureau, 1250 Maryland Avenue, SW., Room 8113, Washington, DC 20024.               
  Telephone: (202) 205-8060 Fax: (202) 260-9345.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/cb                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  None.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Approval of any application will be based on an analysis of the following         
  factors: (1) The administrative and management capability of the applicant to     
  carry out the proposed project in a cost-effective manner: (2) the extent of      
  responsibleness to the project requirements, guidelines, and application          
  requirements; and (3) the potential effectiveness of the proposed project in      
  carrying out the training purposes of Section 330F of the Children's Health Act   
  of 2000. In making awards of grants under this Section, preference will be given  
  to any qualified applicant that is nationally recognized as a leader in adoption  
  advocacy and (1) Has a broad based membership of adoptive parents, adopted        
  persons, voluntary licensed adoption agencies (sectarian and non-sectarian) and   
  independent adoption intermediaries; (2) is knowledgeable in all current and      
  historic elements of the adoption process, and on providing adoption              
  information and referrals to pregnant women; (3) has the ability to subcontract   
  with other nonprofit regional and local adoption organizations for providing      
  training to those counseling pregnant women; (4) experience in developing best-   
  practice guidelines on the provision of adoption information with a variety of    
  adoption organizations; (5) experience in developing and disseminating training   
  materials and counseling curricula to diverse providers including federally       
  funded family planning programs; and (6) has experience in arranging for the      
  provision of training on non-directive counseling of pregnant women to staff      
  working in Title X family planning clinics, federally funded Community Health     
  Centers and Migrant Health Centers, centers for the homeless, residents of        
  public housing and PHS funded school health centers. Under Part B of the          
  Health Act, approval of any application will be based on an analysis of the       
  following factors: the administrative and management capability of the applicant  
  to carry out the proposed project in a cost-effective manner; the extent of       
  responsibleness to the project requirements, guidelines, and application          
  requirements; and the potential effectiveness of the proposed project in carrying 
  out the purposes of Part B of The Children's Health Act.                          
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
93.255 CHILDREN'S HOSPITALS GRADUATE MEDICAL

                                                                                    
EDUCATION PAYMENT                                                                   
   (CHGME Payment Program)                                                          
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Public Health Service Act, Title III Part D, Section 340E, 42 U.S.C. 256E, as     
  amended; The Children's Health Act, 2000, Public Law 106-310, Healthcare          
  Research and Quality Act, 1999, Public Law 106-129; Public Law 108-90;            
  Social Security Act.                                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  The Children's Hospitals Graduate Medical Education Payment Program               


                                                                               11-08
  (CHGMEPP) provides funds to children's teaching hospitals to support the
  training of pediatric and other residents in graduate medical education (GME)
  programs. Since Federal financial support of graduate medical education is
  extensively supported by the Medicare system, the CHGME program
  compensates for the disparity in the level of Federal funding for pediatric
  teaching hospitals versus other types of teaching hospitals. The Secretary of
  DHHS has delegated the authority for the administration of the CHGME
  payment program to Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA),
  which redelegated it to the Bureau of Health Professions (BHP).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are restricted to eligible children's hospitals for direct expenses and the
  other indirect expenses associated with operating approved graduate medical
  residency programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants (children's teaching hospitals) must meet the following eligibility
  requirements in accordance with the Federal Register Notice, Vol. 66, No. 41
  published on March 1, 2001: (1) Participate in an approved graduate medical
  education program; (2) have a Medicare provider agreement; (3) be excluded
  from the Medicare Inpatient Prospective Payment System (PPS) under Section
  1886(d)(1)(B)(iii), of the Social Security Act and its accompanying regulations;
  and (4) be a "freestanding" children's hospital.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any public or private nonprofit and profit children's teaching hospital with an
  accredited residency training program which meets all eligibility requirements
  may apply.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov website at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Notification of award is made in writing by a notice of award letter issued from
  the headquarters office.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Headquarters Office for application deadlines. The CHGME web
  site will also publish the information ahead of time.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  Hospitals can appeal the determination of FTE resident counts by CHGME
  fiscal intermediaries to the Provider Reimbursement Review Board (PRRB)
  under section 1878 of the Social Security Act.
Renewals:
  Eligible children's hospitals must complete a CHGME Payment Program
  application for inclusion in the program for each fiscal year that they are
  applying for funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Section 340E(a) requires the Secretary of DHHS to make payments for direct
  and indirect expenses associated with operating approved graduate medical
  residency training programs for each fiscal year. The two statutory formulas
  (direct medical education and indirect medical education) payments to eligible
  children's teaching hospitals are made as outlined in Federal Register Notice
  (FRN) Vol. 65, No. 118 published on June 19, 2000; FRN Vol. 66, No. 41
  published on March 1, 2001; and FRN Vol. 66, No. 140 published on July 20,
  2001 and FRN Vol.67, No. 186, published on September 25, 2002. and FRN
  Vol 68, No. 208, published October 22, 2003. The formula was updated to
  incorporate section 422 of the Medicare Modernization Act (MMA) and updates
  to variables used in the formulas made by CMS through rules and regulations.
  This program has no statutory matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  In accordance with the Healthcare Research and Quality Act, 1999, Public Law
  106-129, the Secretary of DHHS shall determine before the beginning of each
  fiscal year that payments are made for a hospital. The amounts of the payments
  for direct and indirect medical education are made to each hospital in 12 equal
  interim installments during the period. The Children's Health Act, Public Law
  106-310, amends the length of the CHGME Payment Program through fiscal
  year 2005. Payments are made by an Electronic Transfer System.
Reports:
  Public Law 109-307 requires children's hospitals receiving CHGME funds to
                                                                                 1355
