  submit an annual report that focuses on their GME training program. The              
  Department has to submit a report to Congress by 2011.                               
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of          
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going             
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely    
  resolved.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $297,000,000; FY 08 $301,000,000; and FY 09 est $301,000,000.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $5,982 to $20,273,990; $4,737,879 in combined DME and IME payments.                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  The CHGMEPP made awards to 60 eligible children's teaching hospitals in FY           
  07. It is estimated that awards will be made to 57 eligible teaching hospitals in    
  FY 08 and FY 09.                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and     
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,          
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as            
  applicable.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Marilyn Biviano Ph.D, Director, Division of Medicine and Dentistry, Bureau of        
  Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department         
  of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 9A-05, Rockville, MD           
  20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6190.                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                 
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                 
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.             
  Health Services Branch, Telephone: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training             
  Branch, Telephone: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch,              
  Telephone: (301) 443-3288.                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  www.hrsa.gov; http://www.bhpr.hrsa.gov/childrenshospitalgme .                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                       
  Children's teaching hospitals must meet all of the eligibility criteria before being

                                                                                       
  considered for program funds. This is a noncompetitive annual award.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.256 STATE PLANNING GRANTS HEALTH CARE                                               
ACCESS FOR THE UNINSURED                                                               
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Law 108-447.                                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To support States in the development of plans to provide access to health            
  insurance coverage for all citizens.                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The State Planning Grants (SPG) Program provides 3 types of grants. The first        
  type is a 1-year grant for States which have never received SPG funds to develop     
  plans for providing access to affordable health insurance coverage to all citizens.  
  Each State will design an approach that would ensure every citizen in that State     
  has access to affordable health insurance benefits similar in scope to the Federal   
  Employees Health Benefit Plan, Medicaid, benefits offered to State employees,        
  or other similar health plans. At the conclusion of the grant, each State will       
  submit a report to the Secretary of Health and Human Services that identifies the    
  characteristics of the uninsured within its State and proposals for providing them   
  with affordable health insurance coverage. Together, these reports will provide      
  additional data about the characteristics of the uninsured generally and potential   
  models for other States seeking to provide comprehensive coverage. The second        
  and third types are Limited Competition Pilot Project Planning and Planning          


1356                                                                             11-08

  funds which are available to existing and former SPG Program grantees. Limited
  Competition Pilot Project Planning 1-year grants are to support the design and
  planning of a pilot project to expand health insurance coverage to a significant
  uninsured population within the State. Limited Competition Planning 1-year
  grants are for States that have received SPG Program grant funds and need
  additional resources to complete or expand upon the activities already initiated
  with previous grant funds. (2) Funding provided through this program may not
  be used to substitute for or duplicate funds currently supporting similar
  activities. In addition, grant funds may not be used to support construction,
  renovation, or modernization costs. Grant funds may support costs such as: a)
  Project staff salaries; b) consultants; c) project-related travel; d) project
  evaluation; e) limited equipment and software purchases or leases; and f)
  coordinating and conducting project-related meetings.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Governor of each State or Territory that has not previously received a The
  Governor of each State or Territory that has not previously received a State
  Planning Grant is invited to apply for a New grant. The Governor can designate
  an individual or agency authorized to prepare the State's application on behalf of
  the State. Only a State entity can be the official recipient of a grant. Only one
  application per State is permitted. For Limited Competition Pilot Project
  Planning Grants, eligible applicants are any public State entity that has
  previously received a SPG Program grant. Only a State entity, nominated by the
  Governor, can be the official recipient of a Pilot Project Planning grant. Only
  one application per State is accepted. All SPG Program applicants that propose a
  pilot planning project must include letters of support from the Governor and the
  State legislature for the pilot project. Letters of support are to be provided from
  the leaders of both the House and Senate legislative bodies, or equivalent
  representative(s). For Limited Competition Planning Grants, eligible applicants
  are any public State entity that has previously received a SPG Program grant.
  Only one application per State is accepted.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  New and Limited Competition Planning grant funding will assist States to
  develop models for providing access to health insurance coverage for all citizens
  of the State. Limited Competition Pilot Project Planning grant funding will assist
  States in the design and planning of a pilot project of an option or options on
  which consensus has been developed and will expand health insurance coverage
  to a significant uninsured population within the State. These grants will also
  have the potential to be broadly applicable to other States working on expansion
  options for their uninsured.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Healthcare Systems
  Bureau. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections
  for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Each of the applications will undergo an eligibility and conformance review by
  Federal staff at the State Planning Grants Program Office. Applications that have
  passed the eligibility and conformance review will be assigned to members of an
  Objective Review Committee (ORC) that will review them based on the
  evaluation criteria listed in the application guidance. The results of the ORC
  reviews will be shared with the HRSA Administrator who will make the final
  decisions.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The time required for the applications to be approved or disapproved is projected
  to be 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are available to grantees on an as needed basis throughout the budget
  period and payments are made through the DHHS Payment Management
  System.
Reports:
  Reports are to be provided as outlined in the grant conditions.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
