  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                   
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000  
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit          
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a     
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,  
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                            
Records:                                                                            
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of       
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-  
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going          
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely 
  resolved.                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not      
  available.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  None.                                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Through FY 05, 52 States, Territories, and the District of Columbia have          
  received SPG Program funds. Of these, 50 conducted household surveys, 29          
  conducted employer surveys, 34 conducted consumer focus groups, 37                
  conducted employer focus groups, and 26 States have participated in the Multi-    
  State Integrated Database System, funded for state grantee analysis of data       
  collected. All grantees submit annual reports on their progress in studying the   
  uninsured and developing plans for expanded insurance coverage. In FY 08, this    
  program is not anticipating funding, therefore no notable accomplishments are     
  anticipated.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and  
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,       
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as         
  applicable.                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Joyce G. Somsak, Director, State Planning Grants Program, Healthcare Systems      
  Bureau, Health Resources and Service Administration, Room 11-05, 5600             
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-0938. Fax: (301)          
  443-8196.                                                                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants              
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,              
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.          
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)       
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                    
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  www.hrsa.gov                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  The State Planning Grants Program grants awarded in FY 04, and those which        
  will be awarded in FY 05 are available at: www/hrsa/gov/osp under "State          
  Planning Grants Program."                                                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Please see program guidance.                                                      
                                                                                    
93.257 GRANTS FOR EDUCATION, PREVENTION, AND                                        
EARLY DETECTION OF RADIOGENIC CANCERS AND                                           
                                                                                    
DISEASES

                                                                                    
   (Radiation Exposure Screening and Education Program)                             
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Public Health Service Act, Section 417C, Public Law 106-245.                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To award grants for the purpose of enabling grantees to carry out programs for:   
  (1) screening individuals described under section 4 (a)(1)(A)(i) or 5(a)(1)(A) of 
  the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210 note) for cancer as a     
  preventative health measure; (2) providing appropriate referrals for medical      
  treatment of individuals screened under paragraph (1) and to ensure, to the       
  extent practicable, the provision of appropriate follow-up services; (3)          
  developing and disseminating public information and education programs for        
  the detection, prevention, and treatment of radiogenic cancers and diseases; and  
  (4) facilitating putative applicants in the documentation of claims as described  
  in section 5(a) of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (42 U.S.C. 2210        
  note).                                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                


                                                                               11-08
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are awarded to organizations that develop new or expand existing
  capacity to provide screening, referrals for medical treatment, education, and
  eligibility assistance for eligible individuals. Restrictions on the Use of Grant
  Funds: (1) grant funds may not be used to pay for inpatient services; (2) grant
  funds may not be used to make cash payments to intended recipients of primary
  health care services or specialty care; (3) grant funds may not be used to
  supplant other provider/third party coverage payments available to the patient;
  (4) grant funds may not be used to purchase or improve real property (other than
  minor remodeling of existing improvements to real property) or to purchase
  major medical equipment without the approval of the HRSA Grants
  Management Office; and, (5) not more than 10 percent of any grantee's funds
  shall be used for legal services to assist users in obtaining benefits under the
  Radiation Exposure Compensation Program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The following entities, (located within the approved States of Arizona, Colorado,
  Idaho, Nevada, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Texas,
  Utah, Washington or Wyoming) are eligible to apply for the funds: (1) National
  Cancer Institute-designated cancer centers; (2) Department of Veterans Affairs
  hospitals or medical centers; (3) Federally Qualified Health Centers; (3) agencies
  of any State or local government that currently provide direct health care
  services; (4) IHS health care facilities, including programs provided through
  tribal contracts, compacts, grants, or cooperative agreements with the HIS and
  which are determined appropriate to raising the health status of Indians; and (5)
  nonprofit organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  For purposes of the RESEP, individuals eligible for health screening, education,
  medical referral, and appropriate follow-up services include an individual who
  either: (1) was employed in a uranium mine or uranium mill (including any
  individual who was employed in the transport of uranium ore or vanadium-
  uranium ore from such mine or mill) located in Colorado, Nevada, New Mexico,
  Arizona, Wyoming, South Dakota, Washington, Utah, Idaho, North Dakota,
  Oregon, and Texas at any time during the period beginning on January 1, 1942,
  and ending on December 31, 1971; (2) was a miller or ore transporter who
  worked for at least 1 year during the period beginning on January 1, 1942, and
  ending on December 31, 1971; (3) was physically present in the nuclear arms
  testing area (which includes, in the State of Utah, the counties of Beaver,
  Garfield, Iron, Kane, Millard, Piute, San Juan, Sevier, Washington, and Wayne;
  in the State of Nevada, the counties of Eureka, Lander, Lincoln, Nye, White
  Pine, and that portion of Clark County that consists of townships 13 through 16
  at ranges 63 through 71; and in the State of Arizona, the counties of Apache,
  Coconino, Gila, Navajo, and Yavapai) for a period of at least 2 years during the
  period beginning on January 21, 1951, and ending on October 31, 1958; (4) was
  physically present in the nuclear arms testing area, cited in 3. above, for the
  period beginning on June 30, 1962, and ending on July 31, 1962, or (5)
  participated onsite in a nuclear arms test involving the atmospheric detonation of
  a nuclear device, in either the area described in 3. above or within the official
  boundaries of the Pacific, Trinity, or South Atlantic Test Sites.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Office of Rural Health.
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for
  awards.
Award Procedure:
  Each applicant will receive written notification of the outcome of the objective
  review process, including summary of the expert committee's assessment of the
  application's merits and weaknesses, and whether the application was selected
  for funding. Applicants who are selected for funding may be required to respond
  in a satisfactory manner to conditions placed on their application before funding
  can proceed. Letters of notification do not provide authorization to begin
  performance. The Notice of Grant Award, which is signed by the Grants
  Management Officer and is sent to the applicant agency's authorized
  representative, is the authorizing document.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
                                                                                  1357
