  Approximately 180 days.                                                             
Appeals:

  None.

                                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                             
  RESEP awards may be made for up to 3-year project periods. Subject to

  availability of funds, after initial awards, projects may be renewed non-           
  competitively contingent upon submission and approval of an application,            
  availability of appropriated funds, and awardee's satisfactory performance.         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made annually. After funds are issued, funds are released in             
  accordance with payment procedures of DHHS, which may be an Electronic              
  Transfer System or monthly cash request system.                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  Grantees are required to submit an annual report that describes the utilization     
  costs of services provided under the grant, and provide such other information as   
  the Secretary determines appropriate. Financial status reports are required no      
  later than 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final financial status and  
  progress reports are due 90 days after the end of a project period.                 
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of         
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-    
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going            
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely   
  resolved.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants)FY 07 $1,558,418; FY 08 est $1,517,000; and FY 09 est 1,517,000.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $153,000 to $275,000; $222,621.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In FY 2007, HRSA awarded grants to 7 organizations. It is anticipated to award      
  7 organizations in FY 08 and FY 09.                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and    
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,         
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as           
  applicable.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  The Office of Rural Health Policy, Health Resources and Services                    
  Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane,         
  Room9A-55, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-0835.                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.            
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)         
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  (1) A statewide program of Radiation Exposure Screening and Education               
  Program clinics with coordination and assistance from the State health              
  department; and (2) an area-wide system of clinical and educational services in a   
  rural area for Radiation Exposure victims administered by a secondary referral      
  hospital through linkage arrangements with other provider agencies.                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  (1) Need and Readiness -- the extent to which the applicant can demonstrate a       
  need for these services in their area and their readiness to provide them; (2)      
  administration -- the extent to which the applicant demonstrates that it has the    
  administrative experience and capacity to successfully implement this program;      
  (3) health care services -- the extent to which the applicant has the capacity to   
  provide or arrange for the required services; (4) collaborative arrangements -- the 
  extent to which the applicant has developed and documented collaborative            
  arrangements with other local providers to conduct outreach, provide services       
  and make referrals; and, (5) appropriateness of budget -- the extent to which the   
  applicant's budget for the scope of the proposed activities.                        
                                                                                      


1358                                                                            11-08

93.259 RURAL ACCESS TO EMERGENCY DEVICES
GRANT
   (RAED)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 413 of the Cardiac Arrest Survival Act of 2000; Public Law 106-505.
OBJECTIVES:
  To help partnerships made up of at least three separately owned entities purchase
  and train first responders, and lay persons on the use of Automated External
  Defibrillators (AEDs). A limited amount of funds may also be used for medical
  dispatcher training.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  All funds awarded are to be expended solely for the purposes outlined in the
  approved projects.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must be a public or non-profit entity located in a rural designated
  area. Partnerships made up of at least three separately owned entities may apply.
  These grantees must be located in rural areas as defined in the grant guidance
  may include local first response entities such as fire, EMS and police as well as
  for and nonprofit entities concerned with cardiac arrest survival rates. Statewide,
  multi-State or regional Partnerships may apply. Federally recognized tribes
  and/or tribal organizations are eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  None.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Office of Rural Health.
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for
  awards.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are evaluated by Federal and nonfederal experts. All acceptable
  applications will be funded. Final decisions on level of funding are made by the
  Director, Office of Rural Health Policy.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From two weeks to two months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  RAED awards may be made for up to 3-year project periods. Subject to
  availability of funds, after initial awards, projects may be renewed non-
  competitively contingent upon submission and approval of an application,
  availability of appropriated funds, and awardee's satisfactory performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program does not require cost sharing, however ORHP encourage
  applicants to engage all participating partners to cost-share in the project as a
  demonstration of mutual commitment to the project's success.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made annually and payment is made through the DHHS Payment
  Management System.
Reports:
  A final program report will be submitted to the Secretary, DHHS via ORHP
  within 90 days after the close of the budget period. This report will include a
  retrospective review of how the AED(s) affected response times, pre-hospital
  mortality rates, etc.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
