  42 CFR 59, 45 CFR 74, and 45 CFR 92. PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS               
  Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994.                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Regional Health Administrator, DHHS Regional Offices. (See Appendix IV of            
  the Catalog for addresses.)                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Program Contact: Ms. Susan Moskosky, Director, Office of Family Planning,            
  Office of Population Affairs, Department of Health and Human Services, 1101          
  Wootton Parkway, Suite 700, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (240) 453-               
  2888. Grants Management Contact: Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Grants          
  Management, Office of Public Health and Science, Department of Health and            
  Human Services, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20853,                
  Telephone (240) 453-8822.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.opa.osophs.dhhs.gov .                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  93.217, Family Planning_Services; 93.974, Family Planning_Service Delivery           
  Improvement Research Grants.                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  (1) Short-term family planning personnel training; (2) brief workshops on            
  specific topics; and (3) family planning/women's health specialty training           
  continuing education course for health care practitioners.                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Proposals will be evaluated to determine which would best promote the purposes       
  of the authorizing legislation, taking into account: (1) The increase in delivery of 
  services to people, particularly low-income groups, with a high percentage of        
  unmet need for family planning services; (2) the promise of the program to fulfill   
  the family planning services needs of the area to be served; (3) capacity to use     
  assistance rapidly and effectively; (4) the administrative and management            
  capability and competence of the applicant; (5) competence of the project staff;     
  and (6) compliance with pertinent regulations and guidelines.                        
                                                                                       
93.262 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH                                                  
                                                                                       
PROGRAM                                                                                
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT                               
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970, Sections 20(a) and 21(a), 29 U.S.        
  Code 669(a) and 670(a); Federal Mine Safety and Health Act, Section 501(a), 30       
  U.S. Code 951(a); Public Health Service Act, Section 301(a) and 405; 42 U.S.         
  Code 241 and 284 and Federal Regulations 42 CFR 52 and 45 CFR Parts 74 and           
  92.                                                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To (1) recognize new hazards; (2) define the magnitude of the problem; (3)           
  follow trends in incidence; (4) target exceptional hazardous workplaces for          
  intervention; and (5) evaluate the effectiveness of prevention efforts. The goal of  
  this program is to increase worker safety and health. To develop specialized         
  professional and paraprofessional personnel in the occupational safety and           
  health field with training in occupational medicine, occupational health nursing,    
  industrial hygiene, occupational safety, and other priority training areas.          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Research grants and cooperative agreements are intended to support the direct        
  costs of a project, in accordance with an approved budget, plus an appropriate       
  amount for indirect costs. Training grants: Funds may be used for long term          
  training programs and/or education and research centers. Support is provided         
  for the direct costs of the program, plus certain indirect costs determined by       
  Public Health Service policy on training programs. Amounts of stipends and           
  other details are in accordance with Public Health Service policy. SBIR Phase I      
  grants (of approximately 6-months' duration) are to establish the technical merit    
  and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a commercial          
  product or process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the research         
  initiated in Phase I and that are likely to result in commercial products or         
  processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to apply for Phase II support.         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Eligible applicants include for-profit or non-profit organizations, public or        
  private institutions, such as universities, colleges, hospitals, and laboratories,   
  units of State and local governments, eligible agencies of the Federal               
  government, domestic or foreign institutions/organizations, faith-based              
  organizations, Indian Tribes, Tribal Government, College and/or Organizations.       
  Racial/ethnic minority individuals, women, and persons with disabilities are         
  encouraged to apply as Principal Investigators. Training Grants: Any public or       
  private educational institution or agency that has demonstrated competency in        
  occupational safety and health training at the technical, professional, or graduate  
  level may apply. Trainees must be admissible to the grantee institution and must     
  be enrolled in occupational safety and health training programs. SBIR grants         
  can be awarded only to domestic small businesses (entities that are                  


1360                                                                             11-08

  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in
  which research is proposed and have no more than 500 employees). For SBIR
  grants primary employment (more than one-half time) of the principal
  investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and during the
  conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must
  be performed in the U.S. and its possessions.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Research institutions and agencies as well as workers affected by occupational
  hazards.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications must be signed by appropriate officials of the submitting
  institution. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-
  87 for State and local governments. For-profit organizations' costs are
  determined in accordance with 48 CFR Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition
  Regulations. For other grantees, costs will be determined by HHS Regulations
  45 CFR Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR grants applicant organization (small
  business concern) must present in a research plan an idea that has potential for
  commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific competence,
  experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested are appropriate
  to carry out the plan.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  NIOSH publishes announcements of funding opportunities in the NIH Guide for
  Grants and Contracts and Grants.gov is the portal for applications. The Guide is
  found on the Internet at: http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/guide/index.html.
  Appropriate forms are specified in the Funding Opportunity Announcement.
  Research and training programs utilize either the SF-424 R&R for electronic
  submission or the PHS 398 application form and instructions which are
  available on the Internet at: http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/forms.htm. Electronic
  applications should be submitted to: Center for Scientific Review (CSR),
  National Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1040, MSC7710,
  Bethesda, MD 20892-7910. For express/courier service: Bethesda, MD 20817.
  SBIR Grant Applications may be submitted via grants.gov, FOA number PA-07-
  280.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made on the basis of a two step review of an investigator-prepared
  application. The initial review is performed by a peer review study section for
  scientific merit. The second level of review is performed by the NIOSH
  Secondary Review Committee for program relevance. Final approval of these
  recommendations and decisions concerning funding are made by the Director,
  NIOSH. Formal award notices are sent to successful applicants.
Deadlines:
  Application deadlines are posted in the published funding opportunity
  announcements and are available at
  http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/funding/submissionschedule.htm.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Research Grants and Awards: 7-9 months. Training Grants: 9-10 months. SBIR:
  7-8 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator may question the substantive or procedural aspects of
  the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute.
Renewals:
  Support is recommended for a specified project period, usually not in excess of 5
  years. Prior to the end of a project period, the grantee may apply for renewal of
  support for a new project period. Applications for renewal will be reviewed in
  the same manner as a new application and will compete for available funds with
  other applications.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Research and Training Grants and Cooperative Agreements may be awarded for
  project periods ranging from one to five years in 12-month budget periods, and
  may be extended through a competitive renewal. SBIR Grants: Normally, Phase
  I awards are for 6 months; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years.
Reports:
  Reports must be submitted as follows: (1) Interim progress reports (including
  citations of all resulting publications) annually as part of a non-competing
  continuation application for previously recommended support; (2) Terminal
  progress report (including citations of all resulting publications) within 90 days
  after end of project support; (3) Annual financial status report within 90 days
  after the conclusion of each budget period; (4) Immediate and full reporting of
  any inventions.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
