  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are          
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government              
  officials.                                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, including documents to support entries on accounting records    
  and to substantiate charges to each grant, must be kept readily available for      
  review by personnel authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must         
  be maintained for three years after end of each budget period. If questions still  
  remain, such as those raised as a result of audit, related records should be       
  retained until the matter is completely resolved.                                  
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $144,574,277; FY 08 est $115,000,000; and FY 09 est $107,000,000.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $50,000 to $5,000,000. Training Grants: $28,000-$1,500,000. SBIR Grants:           
  Phase I -$100,000; Phase II - up to $750,000.                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 2007, 161 research grant awards, 51 training awards, 13 SBIR awards and      
  10 World Trade Center awards were made. Estimated number of awards for FY          
  2008 is 240.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  42 CFR Parts 86 and 87. 45 CFR Part 74 or 92, as applicable. OMB Circulars         
  A-21 and A-87. The PHS Grants Policy Statement, including addenda in effect        
  as of the beginning date of the budget period, and the NIH Grants Policy

  Statement. Funding opportunity announcements as published in the NIH Guide:

  (http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/guide/index.html), the Grants.gov website           
  (www.grants.gov), and the NIOSH OEP web site                                       
  (http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/oep/). Omnibus Solicitation of the Public Health         
  Service for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant and Cooperative        
  Agreement Applications. Any additional grant program legislation and               
  regulation cited in the Notice of Grant Award.                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Program Contact: Office of Extramural Programs, National Institute for             
  Occupational Safety and Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,        
  Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, 1600 Clifton       
  Road, NE., MS-E74, Atlanta, GA 30333. Telephone: (404) 498-2530. Grants            
  Management Contact: Mr. Larry Guess, Grants Management Officer, Grants             
  Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Acquisition and                  
  Assistance Branch, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of       
  Health and Human Services, 626 Cochrans Mill road, PO Box 18070,                   
  Pittsburgh, PA 15236. Telephone: (412) 386-6826.                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Extramural Programs, National Institute for Occupational Safety and      
  Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Public Health Service,         
  Department of Health and Human Services, 1600 Clifton Road, NE., MS-E74,           
  Atlanta, GA 30333. Telephone: (404) 498-2530. Grants Management Contact:           
  Mr. Larry Guess, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch,              
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of Health and Human         
  Services, 261 Cochrans Mill road, P.O. Box 18070. Telephone: (412) 386-6826.       
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.cdc.gov/niosh/oep.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  (1) An Integrated Approach Toward Understanding the Toxicity of Inhaled            
  Nanomaterials, (2) Violence Against Home Health and Hospice Workers, (3)           
  Occupational Exposure to Chlorinated Solvents and Cardiovascular                   
  Malformations, (4) 2008 Western Agricultural Conference, (5) Translating a         
  Weight Management Program to Worksites, (6) Worker Health and Safety in            
  Chinatown Restaurants: A CBPR Study, (7) Western U.S. Mining Safety and            
  Health Training, (8) Occupational Safety and Health Training Project, (9)          
  Occupational Safety and Health Training Grant, (10) Hazardous Substance            
  Training for Emergency Responders (11) Rocky Mountain Center for                   
  Occupational and Environmental Health, (12) NYC Fire Dept. Clinical Center         
  for WTC Medicals, (13) NYU World Trade Center Responder Health                     
  Consortium, (14) Southeast Center for Agricultural Health and Injury               
  Prevention, (15) Occupational Safety and Health Surveillance in New York.          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) the         
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the        
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the        
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;  
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed   
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to stated program objectives.        
  Training Grants: Criteria used in evaluating training proposals include: (1)       
  Overall potential contribution of the project toward meeting program objectives;   
  (2) the need for training in the areas outlined in the application; (3) curriculum 


                                                                                11-08
  content and design; (4) previous record of training; (5) evaluation methods; (6)
  experience and training of the project director and staff; (7) institutional
  commitment; (8) academic and physical environment; (9) past performance; and
  (10) appropriateness of budget. The following criteria will be used in
  considering the scientific and technical merit of SBIR Phase I grant applications:
  (1) The soundness and technical merit of the proposed approach; (2) the
  qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and
  consultants; (3) the technological innovation of the proposed research; (4) the
  potential of the proposed research for commercial application; (5) the
  appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the adequacy and suitability of the
  facilities and research environment; and (7) where applicable, the adequacy of
  assurances detailing the proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal
  subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the
  environment. Phase II grant applications will be reviewed based upon the
  following criteria: (1) The degree to which the Phase I objectives were met and
  feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and technical merit of the proposed
  approach for achieving the Phase II objectives; (3) the qualifications of the
  proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (4) the
  technological innovation, originality, or societal importance of the proposed
  research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for commercial application;
  (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the work proposed; (7) the
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (8)
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.
93.264 NURSE FACULTY LOAN PROGRAM (NFLP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION ,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VIII, Section 846A, as amended; Nurse
  Reinvestment Act of 2002, Public Law 107-205.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of the Nurse Faculty Loan Program is to increase the number of
  qualified nursing faculty. The Secretary of HHS, acting through the
  Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, enters into
  an agreement with a school of nursing and makes an award for the establishment
  and operation of a NFLP loan fund. Institutions must use NFLP loan funds to
  provide loans to students enrolled in eligible advanced degree nursing programs
  (master's or doctoral) with an education component(s) that will prepare the
  student to teach. Loan recipients must agree to complete the education program,
  and following graduation, may cancel up to 85 percent of the NFLP loan while
  serving as full-time nurse faculty at a school of nursing.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Institutions may award a maximum loan amount of $30,000 per student for an
  academic year. Upon completion of the program, an amount up to 85 percent of
  the loan may be cancelled by the institution as follows: upon completion of the
  first, second, and third year of full-time employment as faculty in a school of
  nursing, 20 percent of the principal of, and interest on, the amount of the unpaid
  loan shall be cancelled; upon completion of the fourth year of full-time
  employment as faculty in a school of nursing, 25 percent of the principal of, and
  interest on, the amount of the unpaid loan shall be cancelled.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants include all accredited public, nonprofit and private or for-
  profit schools of nursing that offer advanced degree nursing education programs
  (master's or doctoral) to that prepare full-time advanced degree nursing students
  to serve as faculty at schools of nursing that offer a master's or doctoral degree
  program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible nursing students must: (1) be a citizen or national of the United States,
  or a lawful permanent resident of the United States, the Commonwealths of
  Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American
  Samoa or the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands. A student who remains in
  this country on a student or visitor's visa is not eligible; (2) be enrolled in an
  advanced degree program in nursing to become qualified nursing faculty; (3) not
  be in default on a Federal debt; and (4) maintain good academic standing.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
                                                                                 1361
