  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health            
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final           
  selections for awards.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  A Notice of Award and a signed copy of the Agreement is issued in writing from     
  the Health Resources and Services Administration, Bureau of Health                 
  Professions, Division of Nursing office and is sent to the institution's School of

  Nursing Coordinator and the Financial Aid Office Coordinator single point of

                                                                                     
  contact in the Financial Aid Office notifying the school of the amount of the

  Fiscal Year award.                                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 2 to 3 months after receipt of application.                          
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Applications must be submitted annually.                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Schools participating in the loan program must contribute to the loan fund an      
  amount equal to not less than one-ninth of the Fiscal Year award.                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project periods are for one (1) year.                                              
Reports:                                                                             
  The institution submits the "Nurse Faculty Loan Program Annual Operating

                                                                                     
  Report" annually to the Program Office. The Payment Management Systems

                                                                                     
  (PMS) administered by the Division of Payment Management, Financial

                                                                                     
  Management Services, Program Support Center requires schools to complete and

                                                                                     
  submit the quarterly PMS Form 272 to report NFLP loan disbursements.

                                                                                     
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                     
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                     
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                     
Records:                                                                             
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of

                                                                                     
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-

                                                                                     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going

                                                                                     
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely

                                                                                     
  resolved.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0350-0-1-550.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  FY 07 $4,592,465; FY 08 est $7,089,668; and FY 09 est $7,089,668.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                     
  FY 07: Range is $1,892 to $559,872; Average is $62,910.

                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                     
  In FY 2007 there were 122 NFLP agreements established with schools of

                                                                                     
  nursing; annual report data for the 2006 to 2007 academic period documented

                                                                                     
  that 729 students received NFLP support.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and   
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,        
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as          
  applicable.                                                                        
                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

  Denise Thompson, Division of Nursing, Bureau of Health Professions, Health         
  Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 8-C26, 5600         
                                                                                     
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-1399. Fax: (301)

                                                                                     
  443-0791. E-mail: dthompson@hrsa.gov.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                     
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants

                                                                                     
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,               
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.           
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)        
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.hrsa.gov                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.364, Nursing Student Loans; 84.038, Federal Perkins Loan Program_Federal        
  Capital Contributions; 84.063, Federal Pell Grant Program.                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Funded projects establish a NFLP loan fund to provide direct loan support to       
  nursing students who are enrolled in an advanced education nursing, and            
  following graduation from the program may cancel 85% of the NFLP loan while        
  serving as nurse faculty.                                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

1362                                                                           11-08

  Applications will be reviewed for completeness and accuracy, and to determine
  if applicant schools meet minimum program requirements. All eligible
  applicants are considered in a formula for determined awards. Eligible
  applicants must meet all applicable Federal guidelines and/or graduates must be
  eligible for national nursing organization certification, and/or programs must
  meet other national organizational guidelines, as appropriate, in the nursing field
  of study.
93.265 COMPREHENSIVE GERIATRIC EDUCATION
PROGRAM(CGEP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION (HRSA),
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VIII, Section 855, Nurse Reinvestment Act,
  Public Law 107-205.
OBJECTIVES:
  To train and educate nursing personnel in providing geriatric care for the elderly.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants to develop and implement, in coordination with programs under section
  753, programs and initiatives to train and educate individuals in providing
  geriatric care for the elderly. Grants may be used to: Provide training to
  individuals who will provide geriatric care for the elderly; develop and
  disseminate curricula relating to the treatment of the health problems of elderly
  individuals; train faculty members in geriatrics; or provide continuing education
  to individuals who provide geriatric care. Funds may be used for salaries of
  personnel specifically employed for the project; consultant fees; supplies and
  equipment necessary to conduct the project; essential personnel travel expenses
  and other expenses related to the project. Restricted uses: Indirect costs are
  allowed for administrative costs incurred as a result of the project, limited to
  eight percent of direct costs. Trainee expenses are not allowed.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are schools of nursing, academic health centers, a health care
  facility, a program leading to certification as a certified nurse assistant, a
  partnership of such a school and facility, or a partnership of such a program and
  facility, other appropriate public or private nonprofit entities; and for-profit
  entities capable of carrying out the legislative purpose.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Training is for nursing personnel who provide, or will provide, care for the
  elderly and faculty members.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Notification is made electronically through a Notice of Grant Award issued from
  the Headquarters Office.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 6 months after receipt of applications.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Competitive continuations may be submitted during the final budget period of
  the approved project period.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project periods are for 3 years.
Reports:
  A progress report must be submitted for the second and subsequent budget
  periods within an approved project period. Financial Status Reports are required
  within 90 days after the end of each budget period. A final progress report and
  final financial status report must be submitted within 90 days after the end of the
  project period.
Audits:
