  Surveillance of vaccine-preventable diseases; (2) development and                   
  implementation of specific plans to raise immunization levels within preschool      
  age high-risk groups; (3) assessment of immunization status in public clinics,      
  private physician offices, and schools; (4) public information and education        
  programs; (5) participation of citizens groups and volunteers; and (6) consistent   
  enforcement of compulsory school immunization laws.                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applications will be evaluated based on: (1) The extent of the problem; (2) the     
  establishment of specific and measurable objectives to address the problem; and     
  (3) the development of a sound operational plan which will ensure the               
  implementation of each program element.                                             
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.269 COMPLEX HUMANITARIAN EMERGENCY AND

                                                                                      
WAR-RELATED INJURY PUBLIC HEALTH ACTIVITIES                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT                              
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act Sections 301, 307, 311, 317, and 319, Public Law          
  108-111, Public Law 109-417, U.S.C. 247d-3.                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To bring public health and epidemiologic principles to the aid of populations       
  affected by complex humanitarian emergencies. Work will focus on the                
  following main program areas: (1) Providing technical assistance including rapid    
  health and nutrition assessments, public health surveillance, epidemic              
  investigations, disease prevention and control, program evaluation and              
  emergency preparedness; (2) Developing, implementing and disseminating              
  findings from operational research projects aimed at developing more effective      
  public health interventions; (3) Designing, implementing, and evaluating            
  training activities to strengthen the capacity of CDC, other U.S. government        
  agencies, international and private voluntary organizations, other governments,     
  and public health students; (4) Developing and disseminating guidelines on          
  public health issues and technical areas; and (5) Planning and maintaining          
  partnerships with strategic international, bilateral, and non-governmental relief   
  organizations.                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants and cooperative agreements may be made to eligible institutions for the      
  support of projects related to domestic and international complex humanitarian      
  emergencies and war-related injuries. The grants and cooperative agreements         
  may be used for personnel, salaries, consultant costs, survey costs, training,      
  equipment, supplies, travel, patient costs, miscellaneous items, and indirect       
  costs.                                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The general public will benefit from the objectives of this program.                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  The general public will benefit from the objectives of this program.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should review the individual CDC Guidance documents issued under         
  this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be            
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from         
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities.                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  After review and approval of an application, a notice of award is made in writing   
  and issued by the Grants Management Officer, Procurement and Grants Office,         
  CDC. Appropriate notification is also made to the public.                           
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 2 to 3 months.

Appeals:                                                                              
  None.

Renewals:

                                                                                      
  Support is recommended for a specified project period, not to exceed 5 years.       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Support is recommended for a specified project period, not to exceed 5 years.       
Reports:                                                                              


1366                                                                            11-08

  Semiannual and year end progress reports are required. Financial status reports
  are required no later than 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final
  financial status and performance reports are required 90 days after the end of a
  project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records for a minimum of
  three years after the end of a grant period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation,
  audit or other act ion involving the record has been started before the expiration
  of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action
  and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-
  year period, whichever is later. More detailed information regarding retention
  requirements is provided in 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est $250,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  FY 09 (est) $50,000 to $250,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, CDC provided a technical advisor to UNICEF to oversee and
  complete the measles vaccination campaign in Southern Sudan. As a result,
  more than 2 million children were vaccinated against measles as a direct result
  of CDC intervention. CDC, in partnership with the United Nations Children's
  Fund, the Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation, the International Rescue
  Committee, and the Mine Clearance Planning Agency of Afghanistan,
  implemented a nationwide war-related mortality, injury, disability, and mental
  health survey in Afghanistan. Data collected from over 6,000 persons was used
  to establish national estimates of mortality, injury, disability, and mental health
  status. This project was the largest war-related injury survey in a post-conflict
  setting. Results from this study were published in the Journal of the American
  Medical Association. From FY 2004 - FY 2008, CDC provided technical
  assistance to UNICEF, WFP and the UN Food and Agriculture Organization for
  the annual emergency food security and nutrition assessment in Darfur. The
  survey covered 4.1 million conflicted affected persons and found increasing
  rates of malnutrition among children under five. Surveillance data on injury in
  post-conflict settings is being collected through the work of CDC and partners in
  11 countries. These data will be used to identify risk factors for injury and to
  develop prevention programs.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Ben Sklaver, International Emergency and Refugee Health
  Branch, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Road, N.E.,
  Mailstop F60, Atlanta GA 30341-3717, USA. Telephone: (770) 488-0683.
  Grants Management Contact: Randolph B. Williams, Grants Management
  Specialist, Branch VII, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, MS K75, Atlanta, GA 30341.
  Telephone: (770) 488-8382.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  See http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/ierh/default.htm.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposal selection criteria can be found in the program guidance.
93.270 ADULT VIRAL HEPATITIS PREVENTION AND
CONTROL
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES.
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 301 and 317N of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. Section 241
  and 247b-15.
