OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist State and local health agencies, health related organizations and other   
  governmental and nongovernmental organizations in their efforts to decrease the     
  incidence of new infections of hepatitis A, hepatitis B and hepatitis C viruses     
  and to decrease risks for chronic liver disease including cirrhosis and liver       
  cancer in persons with chronic hepatitis B and hepatitis C infections.              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds may be used for costs associated with establishing and maintaining a          
  hepatitis prevention program for the management and coordination of activities      
  directed towards prevention of viral hepatitis infections including the             
  identification, counseling and referral for medical management of persons with      
  chronic HBV or HCV infection and integration of viral hepatitis prevention          
  services into health care and public health services for adults at risk for viral   
  hepatitis.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Nonprofit with 501C3 IRS status (other than institution of higher education);       
  Nonprofit without 501C3 IRS status (other than institution of higher education);    
  For-profit organizations (other than small business); Small, minority, and          
  women-owned businesses; Universities; Colleges; Research institutions;              
  Hospitals; Community-based organizations; Faith-based organizations; Federally      
  recognized or state-recognized American Indian/Alaska Native tribal;                
  governments; American Indian/Alaska native tribally designated organizations;       
  Alaska Native health corporations; Urban Indian health organizations; Tribal        
  epidemiology centers; State and local governments or their Bona Fide Agents         
  (this includes the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the       
  Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianna Islands, American         
  Samoa, Guam, the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall       
  Islands, and the Republic of Palau); Political subdivisions of States (in           
  consultation with States).                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  The general public will benefit from the objectives of this program.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the     
  project, outline the method of operation, describe the evaluation procedures and    
  provide a budget justification of funds requested. Costs for nonprofit recipients   
  will be determined in accordance with HHS Regulations, 45 CFR Part 74 and           
  Part 92.                                                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not Required. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,               
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult         
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying   
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from the Grants       
  Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants                
  Office. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Telephone: (770) 488-2700.      
  The standard application forms must be used for this program as furnished by        
  the Public Health Service and requirement by OMB Circular No. A-110 for             
  nongovernmental applicants. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB        
  Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations and A-102 for governmental           
  entities.                                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  After review and approval of an application, a notice of award is prepared and      
  processed, along with appropriate notification to the public.                       
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 3 to 6 months.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:

  Project periods are for 1 to 5 years with 12-month budget periods. Applications

                                                                                      
  must be obtained from Grants Management Officer, Grants Management

  Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and              
  Prevention. Telephone: (770) 488-2700.                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Support is recommended for a specified project period not to exceed 5 years.        
Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly or semiannual progress reports are required. Financial status reports     
  are required no later than 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final       
  financial status and performance reports are required 90 days after the end of a    
  project period.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      


                                                                                 11-08
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Property records must be retained in accordance with the HHS Grants Policy
  Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $8,135,000; FY 08 est $9,500,000; and FY 09 est $8,500,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $50,000 to $100,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2008, 62 awards were made to state and local health departments,
  community, regional and national organizations to conduct focused hepatitis
  prevention activities in health care settings and public health programs targeting
  at risk populations for viral hepatitis. The primary goals of these programs are
  to decrease the incidence of new infections of hepatitis A virus (HAV), hepatitis
  B virus (HBV) and hepatitis C virus (HCV) (primary prevention) and to
  decrease risks for chronic liver disease, including cirrhosis and liver cancer, in
  persons with chronic HBV infection or chronic HCV infection (secondary
  prevention). An additional 7 awards were made to state and local health
  departments to conduct surveillance activities.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations governing this program are published under 42 CFR Part 51b.
  Guidelines are available in the application kit. HHS Grants Policy Statement.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Wendy Watkins, National Center for HIV, Viral Hepatitis,
  STD, TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of
  Health and Human Services, 1600 Clifton Road, N.E., Mailstop G-37, Atlanta,
  GA 30333 Telephone: (404) 718-8540. Grants Management Contact: Roslyn
  Curington, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch,
  Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 8
  Corporate Square, Room 1044, Atlanta, GA 30329. Mailstop E15. Telephone:
  (404) 639-8864.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.118, Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) Activity; 93.116, Project
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements for Tuberculosis Control Programs; 93.135,
  Centers for Research and Demonstration for Health Promotion and Disease
  Prevention; 93.947, Tuberculosis Demonstration, Research, Public and
  Professional Education; 93.977, Preventive Health Services_Sexually
  Transmitted Diseases Control Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funded projects include: State and Local Health Departments; Community
  Intervention Programs; HIV Prevention Care Management; Minority
  Community-Based HIV Prevention Projects; National/Regional Minority
  Organization (HIV/STD Prevention, Immunization, and TB) Projects; and
  Primary and Secondary HIV Prevention Services.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated based on: (1) Agreements between all agencies
  providing professional and/or supportive care, either voluntarily or for fees; (2) a
  description of the approach that will be used to provide prevention case
  management services; and (3) a description of how services will
  complement/expand existing agency primary and secondary services and
  specific criteria published in program guidance.
93.271 ALCOHOL RESEARCH CAREER DEVELOPMENT
AWARDS FOR SCIENTISTS AND CLINICIANS
   (Research Career )
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title III, Section 301, Public Law 78-410, 42 U.S.C.
  241, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide support for increased research experience relating to the problems of
  alcohol abuse and alcoholism prevention, treatment, and rehabilitation; and to
  raise the level of competence and increase the number of individuals engaged in
  such research.
                                                                                   1367
