  and for minority students. The National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and               
  Alcoholism (NIAAA) supports awards for training in clinical research, treatment      
  assessment research, problems of health promotion and alcoholism prevention,         
  and basic biological and behavioral processes applicable to alcohol research.        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Individual grants are made to fellows seeking predoctoral or postdoctoral            
  support for full-time research training. An institutional allowance will be          
  provided, upon request, to the sponsoring institution for each awardee. In           
  addition, any domestic public or nonprofit institution may apply for an              
  institutional research training grant in a specified area of research from which a   
  number of stipend awards will be made to individuals selected by the training        
  program director at the institution. Support is available for both predoctoral and   
  postdoctoral trainees and for Senior Fellowships and M.D./Ph.D. Fellowships.         
  Special predoctoral fellowships are also available for students with disabilities    
  and for minority students. Actual tuition and fees are allowable for trainees, and   
  an amount for institutional expenses will be provided. Indirect costs may be         
  requested at 8 percent of total direct costs, exclusive of tuition and related fees  
  and expenditures for equipment, or actual indirect costs, whichever is less.         
  Postdoctoral fellows and trainees in the first 12 months of postdoctoral NRSA        
  support incur one month of payback obligation for each month of support. The         
  13th and subsequent months of postdoctoral NRSA support are considered               
  payback service for prior postdoctoral support. Predoctoral fellows and trainees     
  do not incur a service payback obligation. Stipend levels will be $16,500 for        
  predoctoral awards and from $28,260 to $44,412 for postdoctoral awards               
  dependent upon the number of years of relevant experience. Research training         
  support may not be used for intern or other clinical training.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Domestic public or private nonprofit organizations may apply for institutional       
  training grants. The sponsoring institution for a fellowship application may be a    
  domestic private (profit or nonprofit) or public institution. The applicant          
  institution must have, or be able to develop, the staff and facilities to provide the
  proposed research training in an environment suitable for performing high            
  quality work. An applicant for individual predoctoral support must be enrolled       
  in a doctoral degree program by the proposed activation date of the fellowship.      
  A postdoctoral applicant must have received a doctoral degree. All individuals to    
  be supported under the National Research Service Awards (NRSA) program               
  must be a citizen or noncitizen national of the United States, or have been          
  lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence.                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Individuals; public and private, profit or nonprofit organizations for fellowships.  
  Public and private nonprofit organizations for institutional training grants.        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State          
  and local governments. For other grantees, costs will be determined in               
  accordance with HHS Regulation 45 CFR Part 74, Subpart C, Section 74.27.             
                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS, must be used by                 
  applicants. Information concerning current areas of science being supported are      
  available from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.               
  Completed applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific Review       
  National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. This program is subject to        
  the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State and local governments and OMB             
  Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations.                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applications are reviewed for scientific merit by nonfederal consultants             
  recruited nationwide from the alcohol research field. Applications other than        
  fellowship must also be reviewed by the National Advisory Council on Alcohol         
  Abuse and Alcoholism. If recommended for approval and a decision to make an          
  award is made, a formal award notice will be sent to the applicant and sponsor.      
  Students to be supported must submit required forms, including a payback             
  agreement for postdoctoral level trainees.                                           
                                                                                       
Deadlines:

  Individual: April 5, August 5, and December 5; Institutional: May 10.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 5 to 7 months.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  A principal investigator may question the substantive or procedural aspects of       
  the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the

  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available       
  on the NIH home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html .

Renewals:                                                                              
  By law, an individual may receive no more than 5 years of support in the             
  aggregate at the predoctoral level and 3 years of support in the aggregate at the    
  postdoctoral level under the NRSA program (through an individual and/or              
  institutional award). Any exception to these limitations requires a waiver from      
  the Director of the awarding Institute based on review of justification from the     


                                                                                  11-08
  awardee and the program director for the institutional grant.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Policy limits an application for predoctoral fellowship support up to 5 years, and
  up to 3 years for postdoctoral support. Senior Fellowships are up to 2 years and
  M.D./Ph.D. Fellowships are for up to 6 years. Awards for institutional grants
  may be made for project periods of up to 5 years.
Reports:
  Annual progress reports are required. Annual financial status reports are required
  for institutional National Research Service Awards. Annual reports of activities
  for tracking payback provisions are required from all postdoctoral fellows upon
  termination of support.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and subject to inspections and audits
  by DHHS and other Federal officials.
Records:
  Records must be retained for at least 3 years; records shall be retained beyond
  the 3-year period if audit findings have not been resolved. Records relating to
  individual payback obligations are retained for one year after the individual has
  fulfilled or has been excused from fulfilling the payback obligation.
Account Identification:
  75-0894-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Fellowships) FY 07 $11,284,000; FY 08 est $11,284,000; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $16,000 - $542,000; $113,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  42 CFR 66; Guidelines included in application kits. PHS Grants Policy
  Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (REV.) April 1, 1994.
  Specific program announcements are available electronically from the NIAAA
  World Wide Web Home Page on the Internet at http://www.niaaa.nih.gov or
  from the NIH Home Page under Institutes and Offices.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contacts: Dr. Antonio Noronha, Director, Division of Neuroscience
  and Behavior: Telephone: (301) 443-7722. Dr. Ralph Hingson, Director,
  Division of Epidemiology and Prevention Research: (301) 443-1274. Dr. Robert
  Huebner, Deputy Director, Division of Treatment and Recovery Research:
  (301) 443-4344. Dr. Samir Zakhari, Director, Division of Metabolism and
  Health Effects: (301) 443-0799. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
  Alcoholism, NIH, Department of Health and Human Services, 5635 Fishers
  Lane, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-9304. Grants Management Contact: Ms. Judy
  Fox, Grants Management Officer, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and
  Alcoholism, NIH, Department of Health and Human Services, 5635 Fishers
  Lane, Room 3023, Bethesda, Maryland 20892-9304. Telephone: (301) 443-
  4704. Use the same numbers for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nih.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.271, Alcohol Research Career Development Awards for Scientists and
  Clinicians; 93.273, Alcohol Research Programs.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Family structure effects on personality of alcoholics: (2) neurophysiology of
  chronic alcohol consumption; (3) multi-disciplinary alcoholism research
  training; and (4) infectious and other diseases complicating alcoholism.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The following considerations are used in determining projects to be funded: (1)
  Scientific and technical merit; (2) facilities and environment for the training
  program; (3) previous training records; (4) relevance to NIAAA priorities; and
  (5) potential contribution to field of alcohol abuse and alcoholism.
93.273 ALCOHOL RESEARCH PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Sections 301 and 464H, Public Law 78-
  410, 42 U.S.C. 241, and 42 U.S.C. 290Gb; Small Business Research and
                                                                                 1369
