  Development Enhancement Act of 1992, Public Law 102-564.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To develop a sound fundamental knowledge base which can be applied to the            
  development of improved methods of treatment and more effective strategies for       
  preventing alcoholism and alcohol-related problems. The National Institute on        
  Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism (NIAAA) supports research in a broad range of           
  disciplines and subject areas related to biomedical and genetic factors,             
  psychological and environmental factors, alcohol-related problems and medical        
  disorders, health services research, and prevention and treatment research. Small    
  Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program: to increase private sector              
  commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and                   
  development; to increase small business participation in Federal research and        
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and               
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small             
  business concerns in technological innovation. Small Business Technology             
  Transfer (STTR) program: To stimulate and foster scientific and technological        
  innovation and technology transfer through cooperative research and                  
  development carried out between small business concerns and research                 
  institutions; to increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived    
  from Federal research and development; and to foster and encourage                   
  participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small business              
  concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological                    
  innovation.                                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  (1) Research Project Grants provide support for clearly defined projects or a        
  small group of related activities, and when appropriate, support of conferences;     
  (2) Program Project Grants are for large-scale, broad-based programs of              
  research, usually interdisciplinary, consisting of several projects with a common    
  focus; (3) Small Grants are for small-scale exploratory and pilot studies or         
  exploration of an unusual research opportunity; Small Grants are limited to          
  $50,000 for direct costs for a period of up to 2 years; and (4)                      
  Exploratory/Developmental Grants are limited for a period of up to 2 years, and      
  a maximum of $275,000 for direct costs for the entire 2- year period. Funds may      
  be used only for expenses directly related to the approved research project. SBIR    
  Phase I grants (of approximately 6- months' duration) are to establish the           
  technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a     
  commercial product or processes. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the     
  research initiated in Phase I, and that are likely to result in commercial products  
  or processes. STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine     
  the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed      
  cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase II funding   
  is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical    
  merit and commercial potential of Phase II application.                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Public or private profit and nonprofit agencies, including State, local, or regional 
  government agencies, universities, colleges, hospitals, academic or research         
  institutions may apply for research grants. SBIR grants can be awarded only to       
  domestic small businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated        
  for profit, are not dominant in the field in which research is proposed, and have    
  no more than 500 employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of         
  the principal investigator must be with the small business at the time of award      
  and during the conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the    
  research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for       
  funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit and program       
  relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council. STTR         
  grants can be awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are    
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in        
  which research is proposed and have no more than 500 employees) which                
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development. At    
  least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business concern     
  and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and Phase II,   
  the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for   
  funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit and program       
  relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council.              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Public, profit and nonprofit private organizations.                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State          
  and local governments. For-profit grantees' costs will be determined in              
  accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other       
  grantees, costs will be determined in accordance with HHS Regulation 45 CFR          
  Part 74, Subpart C, Section 74.27. For SBIR and STTR grants, applicant               
  organization (small business concern) must present in a research plan an idea        
  that has potential for commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific        
  competence, experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested         
  are appropriate to carry out the plan. Grant forms PHS 6246-1 and PHS 6246-2         
  are used to apply for SBIR Phase I and Phase II, respectively. Grant forms PHS       
  6246-3 and PHS 6246-4 are used to apply for STTR Phase I and Phase II,               


1370                                                                             11-08

  respectively.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS, must be used by grant
  applicants. Application kits, containing the necessary forms and instructions, if
  not available at the applicant institution, may be obtained from the NIAAA.
  Consultation on proposed projects is also available. Preapplication consultation
  with NIAAA staff is required before submission of a Program Project grant
  application or any unsolicited new grant application requesting $500,000 or
  more direct costs in any one year. Applications are reviewed by nonfederal
  consultants recruited nationwide. The amount of the award and period of support
  are determined on the basis of the merit of the project. This program is subject to
  the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State and local governments and OMB
  Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations. SBIR and STTR Grant
  Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained electronically
  through the NIH's "Small Business Funding Opportunities" home page at
  www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World Wide Web. A limited
  number of hard copies of these publications are produced. Subject to
  availability, they may be obtained by contacting the NIH support services
  contractor: Telephone: (301) 206-9385; Fax: (301) 206-9722; E-mail:
  a2y@cu.nih.gov. The Solicitations include submission procedures, review
  considerations, and grant application or contract proposal forms. SBIR and
  STTR grant applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific
  Review, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1040 - MSC 7710, Bethesda, MD 20892-
  7710.
Award Procedure:
  Research Grants in support of projects recommended for approval by the
  National Advisory Council on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism and approved for
  payment are awarded directly by the NIAAA to the applicant institution. All
  accepted SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for scientific and technical
  merit by an appropriate scientific peer review panel and by a national advisory
  council or board. All applications receiving a priority score compete for
  available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on the basis of scientific and technical
  merit and commercial potential of the proposed research, program relevance, and
  program balance among the areas of research.
Deadlines:
  February 1, June 1, and October 1. SBIR: April 15, August 15, and December
  15. STTR: December 1, only. AIDS related research applications January 2, May
  1, and September 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 240 to 270 days from submission of application for grant support.
  SBIR/STTR applications about 7-1/2 months. AIDS related research
  applications about 6 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator may appeal the substantive or procedural aspects of the
  review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the Institute. A
  description of the NIH Peer Review Appeals procedures is available on the NIH
  home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html .
Renewals:
  Support is recommended for a specified project period, usually not in excess of 5
  years. Prior to termination of a project period, the grantee may apply for renewal
  of support for a new project period. An application for renewal is processed as a
  competing request. Small Grants and Exploratory/Developmental Grants are not
  renewable, but grantees may apply for research project grants on the same
  topics.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Varies, but a project period is generally limited to 5 years or less. Grantee may
  apply for renewal of support on a competing basis. Within the project period,
  continuation applications must be submitted on a non-competing basis for each
  year of approved support. Small Grants are limited to 2 years or less and are not
  renewable. Exploratory/Developmental Grants are limited to 3 years or less and
  are not renewable. Payments will be made either on a Monthly Cash Request
  System or under an Electronic Transfer System. Necessary instructions for the
  appropriate type of payment will be issued shortly after an award is made. SBIR:
  Normally, Phase I awards are for 6 months; normally, Phase II awards are for 2
  years. STTR: Normally, Phase I awards are for 1 year; normally, Phase II awards
  are for 2 years.
Reports:
  Reports must be submitted as follows: (1) Interim progress reports annually as
  part of a non-competing continuation application for previously recommended
  support; (2) Terminal progress report within 90 days after end of project support;
  (3) Annual financial status report within 90 days after termination of annual
  grant; (4) Immediate and full reporting of any inventions.
Audits:
  Audits are to be carried out in accordance with the provisions set forth in 45
  CFR Part 74, Subpart C, Section 74.26 and in OMB Circular No. A-133, as
  appropriate. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject to
