  inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.                          
Records:                                                                              
  Records must be retained for as least 3 years; records shall be retained beyond     
  the 3-year period if audit findings have not been resolved.                         
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0894-0-1-552.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Research Projects) FY 07 $260,567,000; FY 08 est $260,630,000; and FY 09           
  est not reported.                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $40,000 to $1,515,000; $359,000.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  42 CFR 52. Guidelines are included in application kits. PHS Grants Policy           
  Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994.             
  Specific program announcements are available electronically from the NIAAA          
  World Wide Web Home Page on the Internet at http://www.niaaa.nih.gov or             
  from the NIH Home Page under Institutes and Offices. Grants will be available       
  under the authority of and administered in accordance with the PHS Grants           
  Policy Statement and Federal regulations at 42 CFR 52 and 42 USC 241;               
  Omnibus Solicitation of the Public Health Service for Small Business Innovation     
  Research (SBIR) Grant and Cooperative Agreement Applications. Omnibus               
  Solicitation of the National Institutes of Health for Small Business Technology     
  Transfer (STTR) Grant Applications.                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  The Headquarters Office (National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism)        
  is responsible for the administration of these programs.                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contacts: Dr. Antonio Noronha, Director, Division of Neuroscience           
  and Behavior: Telephone: (301) 443-7722. Dr. Ralph Hingson, Director,               
  Division of Epidemiology and Prevention Research: (301) 443-1274. Dr. Mark          
  Willenbring, Director, Division of Treatment and Recovery Research: (301)           
  443-1208. Dr. Samir Zakhari, Division of Metabolism and Health Effects: (301)       
  443-0799. National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, NIH,                  
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5635 Fishers Lane, Bethesda, MD            
  20892-9304. Grants Management Contact: Judy Fox, Grants Management                  
  Officer, National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism, NIH, Department        
  of Health and Human Services, 5635 Fishers Lane, Room 3023, Bethesda, MD            
  20892-9304. Telephone: (301) 443-4704. Use the same numbers for FTS.                
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.nih.gov .                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.271, Alcohol Research Career Development Awards for Scientists and               
  Clinicians; 93.272, Alcohol National Research Service Awards for Research           
  Training.                                                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  (1) Alcohol use during pregnancy and pregnancy outcome; (2) studies of              
  alcoholic hepatitis; (3) physical dependence on ethanol; and (4) alcohol and        
  alcohol-drug interactions.                                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The following considerations will be used in determining projects to be funded:     
  (1) Scientific and technical merit of the proposal; (2) program balance; and (3)    
  relevance to NIAAA priorities and public health issues. The following criteria      
  will be used in considering the scientific and technical merit of SBIR/STTR         
  Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical merit of the            
  proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator,   
  supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological innovation of the          
  proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research for commercial        
  application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the adequacy      
  and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7) where           
  applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for (a)         
  safeguarding human of animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or             
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications       
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which         
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and    
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;     
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance  
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for            
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the      
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research      
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the     
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)            
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.             
                                                                                      
93.275 SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH                                              
                                                                                      
SERVICES-ACCESS TO RECOVERY

                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       


                                                                                 11-08
  SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Sections 501(d)(5) and 509 of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. Section
  290aa(d)(5) and 290bb-2, Public Law 106- 310.
OBJECTIVES:
  To implement voucher programs for substance abuse clinical treatment and
  recovery support services pursuant to sections 501 (d)(5) and 509 of Public
  Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. sections 290aa(d)(5) and 290bb-2). This new
  program, called Access to Recovery (ATR), is part of a Presidential initiative to
  provide client choice among substance abuse clinical treatment and recovery
  support service providers, expand access to a comprehensive array of clinical
  treatment and recovery support options (including faith-based programmatic
  options), and increase substance abuse treatment capacity. Monitoring
  outcomes, tracking costs, and preventing waste, fraud and abuse to ensure
  accountability and effectiveness in the use of Federal funds are also important
  elements of the ATR program. Through the ATR grants, States, Territories, the
  District of Columbia and Tribal Organizations (hereinafter collectively referred
  to as "States") will have flexibility in designing and implementing voucher
  programs to meet the needs of clients in the State. The key to successful
  implementation of the voucher programs supported by the ATR grants will be
  the relationship between the States and clients receiving services, to ensure that
  clients have a genuine, free, and independent choice among eligible providers.
  States are encouraged to support any mixture of clinical treatment and recovery
  support services that can be expected to achieve the program's goal of achieving
  cost-effective, successful outcomes for the largest number of people.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds (including direct costs and indirect costs) may be used only for expenses
  clearly related and necessary to carry out approved activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligibility for Access to Recovery (ATR) grants is limited to the immediate
  office of the Chief Executive (e.g., Governor) in the States, Territories, District
  of Columbia; or the head of a Tribal Organization. (A "Tribal Organization"
  means the recognized governing body of any Indian tribe or any legally
  established organization of Indians, including urban Indian health boards, inter-
  tribal councils, or regional Indian health boards, which is controlled, sanctioned,
  or chartered by such governing body or which is democratically elected by the
  adult members of the Indian community to be served by such an organization.)
  The Chief Executive of the State, Territory, or District of Columbia, or the head
  of the Tribal Organization must sign the application. Eligibility is limited to the
  immediate office of these Chief Executives because only they have the authority
  to leverage funding across the State, implement the necessary policy changes,
  manage the fiscal responsibilities, and coordinate the range of programs
  necessary for successful implementation of the voucher programs to be funded
  through these grants. No more than on application from any one Chief
  Executive or head of a Tribal Organization will be funded.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligibility for Access to Recovery (ATR) grants is limited to the immediate
  office of the Chief Executive (e.g., Governor) in the States, Territories, District
  of Columbia; or the head of a Tribal Organization" means the recognized
  governing body of any Indian tribe or any legally established organization of
  Indians, including urban health boards, inter-tribal councils, or regional Indian
  health boards, which is controlled, sanctioned, or chartered by such governing
  body or which is democratically elected by the adult members of the Indian
  community to be served by such an organization.)
Credentials/Documentation:
  The Chief Executive of the State, Territory, or District of Columbia, or the head
  of the Tribal Organization must sign the application.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A letter of intent from prospective applicants is requested by early March of the
  fiscal year. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must comply with the following requirements, or they will be
  screened out and will not be reviewed: Use of the PHS 5161-1 application;
  Application submission requirements in Section IV-3 of this document; and
  Formatting requirements provided in Section IV-2.4 of this document.
  Applicants may request a complete application kit by calling SAMHSA's
  National Clearinghouse for Alcohol and Drug Information (NCADI) at 1 (800)
  729-6686. Applicants also may download the required documents from the
  SAMHSA Web site at www.samhsa.gov . Click on "grant opportunities." PHS
  5161-1 (revised July 2000)-Includes the face page, budget forms, assurances,
  certification, and checklist. Applicants must use the PHS 5161-1. Applications
  not submitted on the PHS 5161-1 will be screened out and will not be reviewed.
  Request for Applications (RFA)-Includes instructions for the grant application.
  This document is the RFA.
Award Procedure:
  None.
                                                                                   1371
