Deadlines:                                                                            
  Please contact program office for application deadline. Please not that             
  applications received after the deadline date must have a proof-of-mailing date

  from the carrier dated at least one (1) week prior to the due date. Private metered

                                                                                      
  postmarks are not acceptable as proof of timely mailing. Applicants will be

  notified by postal mail that the application has been received. Applications not    
  received by the application deadline or postmarked by a week prior to the           
  application deadline will be screened out and will not be reviewed.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 90 - 120 days.                                                        
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Applications will be accepted for a project period of 1 to 3 years with 12-month

                                                                                      
  budget periods. Annual awards will be made subject to continued availability of

                                                                                      
  funds and progress achieved.

                                                                                      
Reports:                                                                              
  No more than quarterly.

                                                                                      
Audits:

                                                                                      
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No A-133 entities that

                                                                                      
  receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in a year shall have an audit

                                                                                      
  made in accordance with A-133.

                                                                                      
Records:                                                                              
  There is a 3-year records retention requirement; records shall be retained beyond

                                                                                      
  the 3-year period if final audit has not been done or findings resolved.

                                                                                      
Account Identification:

                                                                                      
  75-1362-0-1-550.

                                                                                      
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $103,956,661; FY 08 est $95,962,645; and FY 09 est not               
  reported.                                                                           
                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $103,956,661 to $95,962,645; $95,962,645.                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2007 25 awards were funded. It is estimated that 24 awards will be   
  funded in fiscal year 2008.                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  45 CFR Parts 74 and 92 and the HHS Grant Policies.                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  CSAT Contact: Jack Stein (240)276-2950 and George Gilbert; Telephone: (240)         
  276-1681; 1 Choke Cherry Road, Rockville, MD 20857; Telephone: (240) 276-           
  1575. Grants Management contact: Kathleen Sample, Division of Grants                
  Management, SAMHSA, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Rockville, MD 20857;                       
  Telephone: (240) 276-1407; Fax: (240) 276-1430; E-mail:                             
  kathleen.sample@samhsa.hhs.gov .                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.samhsa.gov .                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  SAMHSA applications for this program are peer-reviewed according to the             
  review criteria listed above. For those programs with an individual award of over   
  $100,000, the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment National Advisory Council        
  also must review application. Decisions to fund a grant are based on: Strengths     
  and weaknesses of the application as identified by the Peer Review Committee        
  and approved by the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment National Advisory          
  Council. Availability of funds. Balance among the geographic regions of the         
  United States, different models for implementing the voucher programs (see          
  Program Requirements, in Section I.), and the use of effective approaches to        
  address those with special needs (e.g., homeless populations, people with co-       
  occurring disorders, people living in rural areas, etc.) Evidence that funds will   
  be distributed through a voucher mechanism that guarantees clients genuine,         
  free, and independent choice among eligible clinical treatment and recovery         
  support providers, among them at least one provider to which the clients has no     
  religious objection. Evidence that the applicant has addressed the standards for    
  grantees outlined in appendix C of the RFA. Evidence the applicant will             
  increase capacity for recovery support services. In the event of a tie among        
  applicant scores, the following method will be used to break the tie: Scores on     
  the criterion with the highest possible point value will be compared (Extent to     
  Which Proposed Project Meets ATR Goals-30 points). Should a tie still exist,        
  the evaluation criterion with the next highest possible point value will be         
  compared, continuing sequentially to the evaluation criterion with the lowest       
  possible point value, should that be necessary to break all ties. If an evaluation  
  criterion to be used for this purpose has the same number of possible points as     


1372                                                                            11-08

  another evaluation criterion, the criterion listed first in Section V-1 will be used
  first.
93.276 DRUG-FREE COMMUNITIES SUPPORT PROGRAM
GRANTS
   (Drug-Free Community Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997, Public Law 105-20. Reauthorized by
  Public Law 107-82.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase the capacity of community coalitions to reduce substance abuse, and
  over time, to reduce substance abuse among adults through strengthening
  collaboration among communities, public, and private entities. To disseminate
  state-of-the-art information on practices and initiatives that have proven to be
  effective in reducing substance abuse among youth.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This program, established by the Drug-Free Communities Act of 1997 (Public
  Law 105-20), awards grants to community coalitions for amounts up to
  $100,000 through a competitive grant award process. On December 14, 2001,
  Public Law 107-82 reauthorized the program for 5 years. The focus of the
  program is on community coalitions that have been in existence for a minimum
  of 6 months, coalitions that have 5-year strategic plans aimed at reducing
  substance abuse among youth, and over time, among adults, and coalitions that
  have provided an equal match for the funds that they seek. These community
  coalitions are to collaborate with entities in the community including
  government agencies to coordinate and strengthen efforts to reduce substance
  abuse. The program aims to disseminate timely state-of-the-art information on
  practices and initiatives that have proven to be effective in reducing substance
  abuse.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Community coalitions must demonstrate that the community coalition has
  worked together for a period of not less than 6 months on substance abuse
  reduction initiatives. The coalition must: meet the composition requirements;
  ensure that there is substantial community volunteer effort; ensure that the
  coalition is a nonprofit, charitable, educational organization, or unit of local
  government, or is affiliated with an eligible organization or entity; possess a
  strategy to be self-sustaining; provide a 100-125 percent cash or in-kind match;
  and agree to participate in an evaluation of the coalition's program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Community coalitions, children, youth, and adults, those at-risk of substance
  abuse, and private nonprofit, and public community agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-87 for State
  and local governments, A-21 for educational institutions, and A-122 for
  nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or office
  designated at the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the processes the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if
  the State has selected the program for review. Standard application forms as
  furnished by the Federal agency, in accordance with 28 CFR, Part 66 (Common
  Rule), must be used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  The Office of National Drug Control Policy has entered into an Interagency
  Agreement with the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention to
  administer and manage the Drug-Free Communities Support Program.
  Applicants must submit a proposal to the Office of Justice Programs on Standard
  Form 424, Federal Assistance Applications. The receipt, review, and analysis
  of applications will follow the Office of Justice Program policies and
  procedures for the administration of grant applications. This program is subject
  to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Upon approval by the Office of National Drug Control Policy and the Office of
  Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention, a letter is sent to the applicant
  agency with copies of the Grant Award. One copy of the Grant Award must be
  signed by the authored official and returned to the Office of Justice Programs.
Deadlines:
  Published in program announcements, request for applications.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 1 to 3 months.
Appeals:
