  Hearing held by OJJDP. Federal Acquisition Regulations apply.                      
Renewals:                                                                            
  FY 2003 grantees must recompete as a continuation applicant in FY 2004.            
  Applicants funded in FY 2004 will be eligible for FY 2005 continuation funding

  based on availability of funds and grantees performance. FY 1998 and 1999

  grantees not currently funded must compete as new applicants.

                                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Drug-Free Communities Support Program grants awarded under the Drug-Free           
  Communities Act do require a 100-125 percent cash or in-kind match.                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Under the Drug-Free Communities Act, awards will be made for one year.             
Reports:                                                                             
  Under the Drug-Free Communities Support Grants biennial progress and               
  financial reports are required.                                                    
Audits:                                                                              
  All organizations that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in any      
  fiscal year must have a single audit for that year in accordance with OMB          
  Circular No. A-133, as amended, unless the audit condition on the award says       
  otherwise. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency not later than 9   
  months after the end of the grantee's fiscal year.                                 
Records:                                                                             
  Grantee must keep complete records on the disposition of funds, and records        
  related to the grant must be retained for 3 years.                                 
Account Identification:                                                              
  15-0405-0-1-754.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $57,716,982; FY 08 est $36,499,812; and FY 09 est not

                                                                                     
  reported.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                     
  $75,118,183 to $57,716,982; 36,499,812.

                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  It is estimated that 598 will be funded in fiscal year 2007, and 375 in fiscal year
  2008.                                                                              
                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  45 CFR Parts 74 and 92; also the HHS Grant Policies.                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration, Division of         
  Grants Management. 1 Choke Cherry Road, Room 7-1097, Rockville, Maryland           
  20857. Edna Frazier, Grants Management Team Leader, telephone: (240) 276-          
  1405, and CSAP Program Contact: Peggy Quigg, telephone: (240) 276-2589 and         
  Richard Moore, telephone: (240) 276-1270.                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.samhsa.gov .                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  The Albuquerque Partnership Albuquerque, NM - The Albuquerque Partnership          
  serves Albuquerque, NM, with a focus on South Valley, the Central Avenue           
  Corridor, and Southeast Heights. The target areas are urban, more than 60          
  percent Hispanic, and have a population of approximately 200,000. In its most      
  recent grant year, the coalition continued to implement its program goals and      
  objectives by instituting summer programs at Emmanuel and Macedonia                
  Churches; continuing successful work with the Albuquerque Police Department,       
  the district attorneys office, and the citys Community Enforcement and             
  Abatement Team on a weekly basis with identification of hotspots and nuisance      
  abatement; completing the education report, including recommendations from         
  the community on corrective action schools; implementing the Summer Cruising       
  program; implementing two new faith-based strategies; and encouraging              
  neighborhoods to submit hotspot sheets on nuisance properties. Coalition for a     
  Drug-Free Hawaii Honolulu, HI Drug-Free Hawaii is the fiscal agent for the         
  Ewa Beach Community Coalition (EBCC). The coalition serves Ewa Beach, HI,          
  a rural community. In its last grant year, the coalition continued to implement    
  its program goals and objectives by convening, coordinating, and sustaining        
  EBCC to address substance abuse in the community; and providing optimal            
  opportunities for youth, parents, school personnel, and community members to       
  become actively involved in implementing effective prevention strategies. The      
  coalition created a network of support services for youth and their families in the
  Ewa Beach community; assessed the needs of the community, pooled resources         
  to create opportunities to fill these needs, and created working, mutually         
  beneficial partnerships to support a drug-free community; subcontracted related    
  prevention services from the Boys & Girls Club of Hawaii and the Kalihi            
  YMCA and provided family strengthening workshops through the Coalition for         
  a Drug-Free Hawaii.                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applications are judged according to their consistency with the policies and       
  program priorities established by the Drug-Free Communities Act. Specific          
  criteria are applied that are related to the particular program areas under which  
  projects are funded. The criteria are published in the Federal Register as part of 




                                                                                11-08
  the individual program announcements. Applications undergo a competitive
  peer review process as outlined in the OJJDP Competition and Peer Review
  Policy, 28 CFR Part 34.
93.279 DRUG ABUSE AND ADDICTION RESEARCH
PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301, 405, 464L, 464N, and 464P, 42 U.S.C.
  241, 42 U.S.C. 284, 42 U.S.C. 295, 42 U.S.C. 2850-2, and 42 U.S.C. 2850-4;
  Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992, Public
  Law 102-564.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support biomedical, basic and clinical neuroscience, behavioral and social
  science, epidemiologic, health services and health disparity research to develop
  new knowledge and approaches related to the prevention, diagnosis, treatment,
  etiology, and consequences of addiction and drug abuse, including HIV/AIDS.
  To support research training and research scientist development. To support
  dissemination of research findings. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)
  program: to expand and improve the SBIR program. The legislation is intended
  to expand and improve the SBIR programs to emphasize and increase private
  sector commercialization of technology developed through Federal SBIR
  research and development; increase small business participation in Federal
  research and development; and foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in the SBIR program. The legislation intends that the Small
  Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program stimulate and foster scientific
  and technological innovation through cooperative research and development
  carried out between small business concerns and research institutions; foster
  technology transfer between small business concerns and research institutions; to
  increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal
  research and development; and foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in technological innovation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Fellowships).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  (1) Research project grants provide support for clearly defined projects or a
  small group of related research activities, and when appropriate, support of
  research conferences; (2) program project and center grants support large-scale,
  broad-based programs of research, usually interdisciplinary, consisting of several
  projects with a common focus; (3) small grants support newer, less experienced
  investigators; investigators at institutions without a well developed research
  tradition and resources; the testing of new methods or techniques; small-scale
  exploratory and pilot studies, or exploration of an unusual research opportunity;
  small grants provide research support of up to $50,000 direct costs per year for a
  period of up to 2 years; (4) research training grants including fellowships and
  institution training grants, career development grants and loan repayment grants;
  (5) SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-months' duration) are to establish
  the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research or research and
  development efforts to determine the quality of performance of the small
  business grantees. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the research
  initiated in Phase I and that are likely to result in commercially viable products
  or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to apply for Phase II support;
  STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine the
  scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed
  cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application and the quality
  of performance of the small business concerns. Phase II funding is based on
  results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical merit and
  commercial potential of the Phase II application.
Applicant Eligibility:
  For research grants the following organizations/institutions are eligible to apply:
  Public/State Controlled Institutions of Higher Education; Private Institutions of
  Higher Education: Hispanic-serving Institutions, Historically Black Colleges
  and Universities (HBCUs), Tribally Controlled Colleges and Universities
  (TCCUs), and Alaska Native and Native Hawaiian Serving Institutions;
  Nonprofits with 501(c)(3) IRS Status (Other than Institutions of Higher
  Education); Nonprofits without 501(c)(3) IRS Status (Other than Institutions of
  Higher Education); Small Businesses; For-Profit Organizations (Other than
  Small Businesses); State Governments; Indian/Native American Tribal
  Governments (Federally Recognized); Indian/Native American Tribally
  Designated Organizations; County Governments; City or Township
  Governments; Special District Governments; Independent School Districts;
  Public Housing Authorities/Indian Housing Authorities; and Other(s): Eligible
  Agencies of the Federal Government, Faith-based or Community-based
  Organizations, U.S. Territory or Possession, Indian/Native American Tribal
                                                                                  1373
