  Prevention Research (Behavioral and Social Science Research, Incidence,               
  Prevalence, Ethnographic, Survey Research, and Longitudinal Studies on                
  Prevention, Vulnerability and Etiology, Health Services). Telephone: (301) 443-       
  6504. Dr. Joseph Frascella, Director, Division of Clinical Neuroscience and           
  Behavioral Research (Clinical Neurobiology of Addiction, Cognitive                    
  Neuroscience, Neurobiology of Treatment, Biological Etiology, Comorbidity,            
  Neurobiology of HIV/AIDS, Neurobiology of Human Pain and Analgesia).                  
  Telephone: (301) 443-4877. Dr. Betty Tai, Director, Center for the Clinical           
  Trials Network (Translate Drug Abuse Treatment Research Throughout the                
  County; Research on Behavioral, Pharmacological, and Integrated Behavioral            
  and Pharmacological Treatment Interventions of Therapeutic Effect in Rigorous         
  Multisite Clinical Trials). Telephone: (301) 443-6697. Dr. Mimi Ghim, Ph.D.,          
  NIDA Deputy Coordinator of Research Training. Telephone: (301) 443-6071.              
  SBIR Contact: Dr. Cathrine Sasek, Telephone: (301) 443-6071. Review                   
  Contact: Dr. Teresa Levitin, Office of Extramural Affairs. Telephone: (301) 443-      
  2755. Grants Management Contact: Ms. Pam Fleming, Grants Management                   
  Officer. Telephone: (301) 443-6710. National Institute on Drug Abuse, National        
  Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human Services, Neuroscience           
  Building, 6001 Executive Boulevard, Bethesda, MD 20892. Dr. Levitin and Ms.           
  Fleming are located in 6101 Executive Boulevard. Use the same numbers for             
  FTS.                                                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.nih.gov; www.drugabuse.gov; http://www.nida.nih.gov.                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  (1) Epidemiology of drug abuse among minority populations; (2) Studies of             
  AIDS among IV Drug Abusers; (3) Studies of Narcotic-Induced Respiratory               
  Depression; (4) Endorphins: Metabolism, Release, and Tolerance; (5)                   
  Neurobiological and Behavior Mechanisms of Addictive and Compulsive                   
  Behavior; (6) Maternal/Paternal Effects of Drugs of Abuse; and (7) Effects of         
  Drug Abuse on Adolescent and Development.                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  The following considerations will be used in determining projects to be funded:       
  (1) Scientific and technical merit; (2) the feasibility of the research; (3) potential
  contribution to the national drug abuse problem; and (4) relevance to NIDA            
  priorities. The following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and     
  technical merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and        
  technical merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed      
  principal investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological      
  innovation of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research       
  for commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6)      
  the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7)      
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for         
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects and/or (b) protecting against or            
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications         
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the       
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and      
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;       
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and  
  consultants; (4) the technology.                                                      
                                                                                        
93.280 NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH LOAN                                               
                                                                                        
REPAYMENT PROGRAM FOR CLINICAL RESEARCHERS                                              
   (NIH LRP-CR)                                                                         
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                               
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Public Health Service Act, Title IV, Part G, Section 487F; Public Law 106-505;        
  42 U.S.C. 288-5a.                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To attract and retain health professionals to clinical research careers by offering   
  educational loan repayment for participants who agree by written contract to          
  engage in clinical research in a qualifying nonprofit institution for a minimum of    
  2 years.                                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  To provide repayment of extant educational loans incurred by health                   
  professionals engaged in clinical research in a qualified nonprofit institution or    
  Federal or other domestic government agency (State, local), and in research that      
  is supported by a nonprofit foundation, nonprofit professional association, or        
  other nonprofit entity, or a Federal or other domestic government agency (State,      
  local). Recipients must agree by written contract to engage in such research,         
  initially, for a minimum of 2 years; individuals who have conflicting service         
  obligations may not participate in this program until those obligations are           
  satisfied or have been deferred during the period of program service.                 


                                                                                   11-08
  Participants may apply for and the Secretary may grant extension contracts for
  one-year or two-year periods, as determined by the Secretary, if the individual
  continues to engage in qualifying research. Renewal applications are
  competitively reviewed and the submission of a renewal application does not
  assure the award of benefits. The maximum program benefit is $35,000 per year
  in loan repayments and $13,650 per year in Federal tax reimbursements, plus
  discretionary State and local tax reimbursements. Recipients must have qualified
  educational debt in excess of 20 percent of their annual salary, which is referred
  to as their "debt threshold." An amount equal to half of this "debt threshold" will
  not be repaid by NIH and must be paid by the program participants.
Applicant Eligibility:
  (1) A U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or permanent resident of the United States; (2)
  Have a Ph.D., M.D., D.O., D.D.S., D.M.D., D.P.M., Pharm.D., D.C., N.D., or
  equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited institution; (3) Have total
  qualifying educational loan debt equal to or in excess of 20 percent of their
  institutional base salary on the date of program eligibility (the effective date that
  a loan repayment contract has been executed by the Secretary of Health and
  Human Services or designee); (4) Conduct qualifying research supported by a
  domestic nonprofit foundation, nonprofit professional association, or other
  nonprofit institution, or a U.S. or other government agency (State or local); (5)
  Engage in qualified clinical research. Clinical research is patient-oriented
  clinical research conducted with human subjects, or research on the causes and
  consequences of disease in human populations involving material of human
  origin (such as tissue specimens and cognitive phenomena) for which an
  investigator or colleague directly interacts with human subjects in an outpatient
  or inpatient setting to clarify a problem in human physiology, pathophysiology
  or disease, or epidemiologic or behavioral studies, outcomes research or health
  services research, or developing new technologies, therapeutic interventions, or
  clinical trials; (6) Engage in qualified clinical research for at least 50 percent of
  their time, i.e., not less than 20 hours per week based on a 40 hour week; (7)
  Agree to conduct research for which funding is not prohibited by Federal law,
  regulation, or HHS/NIH policy, and in accordance with applicable Federal, State
  and local law (e.g., applicable human subject protection regulations); and (8)
  Sign and submit to the Secretary of Health and Human Services, at the time of
  application submission, a contract agreeing to engage in clinical research in a
  qualifying institution for a minimum of 2 years. Full-time employees of Federal
  Government agencies are ineligible to apply for LRP benefits. Part-time Federal
  employees who engage in qualifying research as part of their nonfederal duties
  for at least 20 hours per week based on a 40 hour week, and who are not
  compensated as a Federal employee for their research, are eligible to apply for
  loan repayment if they meet all other eligibility requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Health professionals who are interested in pursuing clinical research careers and
  who have unpaid educational loans will benefit from this program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants electronically transmit the following documents to the NIH:
  Applicant Information Statement, Biosketch, Personal Statement, Description of
  Research Activities, 3 Recommendations, Loan Information including current
  account statement(s) and promissory note(s) or disclosure statement(s),
  Assessment of Research Activities Statement (completed by the research
  supervisor), and Description of the Research Environment (completed by the
  research supervisor), Training or Mentoring Plan (completed by the research
  supervisor). Institutional Contacts electronically transmit a certification that: (a)
  assures the applicant will be provided the necessary time and resources to
  engage in the research project for two years from the date a Loan Repayment
  Program Contract is executed; (b) assures that the applicant is or will be engaged
  in qualifying research for 50 percent of their time (or not less than 20 hours per
  week based on a 40 hour week); (c) certifies that the institution is nonprofit
  (exempt from tax under 26 USC 501), and (d) provides the applicant's
  institutional base salary.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must access and submit the Loan Repayment Program application
  via the website www.lrp.nih.gov. Applications submitted to the NIH Division of
  Loan Repayment are first examined to determine if the basic eligibility
  requirements are satisfied. If these requirements are met, the application is
  forwarded to the NIH Center for Scientific Review for a determination regarding
  which NIH Institute or Center the application will be assigned to for review,
  scoring, and ranking.
Award Procedure:
  The NIH Institutes and Centers approve or disapprove applications for
  participation in the Loan Repayment Program for Clinical Researchers. When
  an Institute or Center approves an application, the NIH Office of Loan
  Repayment notifies individuals of their award amount, provides a repayment
  schedule that covers the period of participation, and a Loan Repayment Program
  Contract is executed by an authorized representative of the Secretary, DHHS. If
  the approved research assignment changes, or if the employing research
  institution changes, the participant must have their continued eligibility re-
  certified by the Institute or Center which approved their application. Contact the
                                                                                    1375
