  NIH via e-mail at LRP@NIH.GOV for further guidance.                                
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Review the Loan Repayment Program website www.lrp.nih.gov, or contact the          
  Headquarters Office listed below for the application deadlines.                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The approximate time for approval/disapproval is 6 months from the closing

  date of the annual application period.

Appeals:

                                                                                     
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  At the conclusion of the initial 2-year contract, participants may apply and be

  considered for subsequent 1 or 2-year continuation contracts under the             
  application and approval procedures specified above. Eligible renewal              
  applications that score within the funding range receive continuation contracts.   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no formula or matching requirements.                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Assistance is available for a minimum 2-year period. One or 2-year continuation    
  contracts are available. Payments will be made directly to lenders, following      
  each quarter of the participant's satisfactory service, unless otherwise agreed    
  upon by the participant and Secretary of Health and Human Services.                
Reports:                                                                             
  Program participants must be periodically certified by their research supervisor   
  to have been engaged in the qualifying research project for a minimum 50           
  percent effort (not less than 20 hours per week based on a 40 hour week) during    
  the service period.                                                                
Audits:                                                                              
  None.

                                                                                     
Records:                                                                             
  The NIH will maintain applicant records for 3 years after rejection and

                                                                                     
  participant records for 6 years after completion of final service obligation.      
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-4554-0-1-552.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  (Loan Repayments) FY 07 $42,202,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est

                                                                                     
  not reported.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                     
  For initial two-year contract periods, loan repayments awards may range from

                                                                                     
  $2,298 to $70,000; Tax reimbursements range from $1,040 to $31,679. The

                                                                                     
  average cost which includes loan and tax reimbursement is $48,718.

                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  942 awards were made in fiscal year 2005. NIH projects that 935 awards will be     
  made in fiscal year 2006 and 2007.                                                 
                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Pertinent information is contained in Public Health Service Act, Title IV, Part G, 
  Section 487F, Public Law 106-505, 42 USC 288-5a. The NIH LRP-CR was                
  initially announced by publication of a Notice in the Federal Register (Vol. 66,   
  No. 173), and updated in Federal Register (Vol. 68, No. 61).                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Program and Business Contact: Alfred C. Johnson, Ph.D., Division of Loan           
  Repayment, National Institutes of Health, 6011 Executive Blvd., Room 206,          
  MSC 7650, Bethesda, MD 20892-7650. LRP Helpline: (866) 849-4047.                   
  Facsimile: (866) 849-4046. Email: lrp@nih.gov .                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.lrp.nih.gov .                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.162, National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program; 93.164,              
  Indian Health Service Educational Loan Repayment; 93.209, Contraception and        
  Infertility Research Loan Repayment Program; 93.220, Clinical Research Loan        
  Repayment Program for Individuals from Disadvantaged Backgrounds; 93.285,          
  National Institutes of Health Pediatric Research Loan Repayment Program;           
  93.307, Minority Health and Health Disparities Research; 93.308, Extramural        
  Loan Repayment for Individuals from Disadvantaged Backgrounds Conducting           
  Clinical Research; 93.364, Nursing Student Loans; 93.936, National Institutes of   
  Health Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome Research Loan Repayment                  
  Program.                                                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Production of mature human T lymphocytes from bone marrow using a skin-            
  derived thymic organoid. Magnetic resonance, EEG, amphetamine, and visual          
  processing; MR analysis of persisting CNS damage in human MDMA users.              
  Associations between human cerebral spinal fluid dopamine levels and               
  neuropsychological outcome after severe traumatic brain injury.                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The NIH Institutes and Centers approve or disapprove applications for              
  participation in the Loan Repayment Program for Clinical Researchers.              
  Applications that are on time, complete and eligible are referred to the           
  appropriate NIH Institute or Center by the NIH Center for Scientific Review.       
  The NIH Institutes and Centers convene panels comprised of non-NIH scientists      
                                                                                     


1376                                                                           11-08

  to review, score and rank applications. In evaluating the application, reviewers
  are directed to consider the following components as they relate to the likelihood
  that the applicant will continue in a research career: (1) potential of the applicant
  to pursue a career in research, and (2) quality of the overall environment to
  prepare the applicant for a research career.
93.281 MENTAL HEALTH RESEARCH
CAREER/SCIENTIST DEVELOPMENT AWARDS
   (Research Career/Scientist Development )
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title III, Section 301, Public Law 78-410, 42 U.S.C.
  241, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide support for research career development relating to causes, risk,
  diagnosis, genetics, development, epidemiology, prevention, treatment, and
  services use for mental illness, behavioral disorders, and HIV/AIDS; and relating
  to basic neuroscience and basic behavioral science research addressing basic and
  clinical research pertinent to mental disorders; in order to increase the number of
  individuals who are competing to advance research supported by the National
  Institute of Mental Health support, including women, individuals from
  underrepresented racial and ethnic minority groups, and individuals with
  disabilities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Mentored Research Scientist Development Award (K01, MRSDA), Mentored
  Clinical Scientist Development Award (K08, MCSDA), Mentored Scientist
  Development Award for New Minority Faculty (K01, MSDA NMF), and
  Mentored Quantitative Research Career Development Award (K25) provide
  support for individuals with research potential who need additional mentored
  development and/or experience in a productive research environment. Awards
  are available for up to 5 years of salary support (up to $90,000 per year) for the
  individual candidate, fringe benefits, and 8 percent indirect costs. Specialized
  training costs and limited research costs are allowable under justified
  circumstances. Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career Development Award
  (K23) supports the career development of individuals who have made
  commitment to focus their research endeavors on patient-oriented research.
  Awards are available for three to five years (ranging from $75,000 to $180,100)
  to help offset the full time salary requirement of the candidate. The NIH Pathway
  to Independence (PI) Award (K99/R00) provides up to 2 years of mentored
  support (K99) for a postdoctoral individual followed by up to 3 years of support
  after the awardee transitions to research independence (R00). K99/R00 awards
  are awards for up to 5 years of support. During the K99 phase, awards provide
  up to $50,000 per year for the salary of the individual candidate as well as fringe
  benefits, and 8 percent indirect costs. Specialized training costs and limited
  research costs are allowable under justified circumstances. Salary support for all
  mentored awards may be supplemented by the sponsoring institution from
  nonfederal funds. The Independent Scientist Award (K02, ISA) is for
  independent scientists whose careers are developing rapidly; the Mid-career
  Investigator Award in Patient-Oriented Research (K24) is for outstanding
  clinical scientists engaged in patient-oriented research. No specialized training
  costs are available; limited research costs for K24s and K02s in theoretical areas
  are available.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All awards in these series are made to appropriate domestic research centers,
  medical schools, departments of psychiatry, non-medical academic departments,
  psychiatric hospitals or hospitals with psychiatric services, community mental
  health centers, and biomedical research institutes on behalf of individuals who
  need the opportunity to realize research potential. Except for the NIH Pathway to
  Independence (PI) Award (K99/R00), the individuals must be citizens or
  nationals of the United States or have been lawfully admitted for permanent
  residence. The NIH Pathway to Independence (PI) Award (K99/R00) is open to
  both U.S. citizens and non-U.S. citizens. Individuals must qualify by scholastic
  degree and previous training and/or experience.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public and private profit or nonprofit organizations will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. For other grantees, costs will be determined in
  accordance with HHS Regulation 45 CFR Part 74, Subpart Q.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications must be prepared using the PHS 398 research grant application
  instructions and forms (revised 11/2007). The PHS 398 is available at
