  (301) 443-5944. Dr. Cheryl Boyce, Research Training and Career Development,        
  Division of Pediatric Translational Research; Telephone (301) 443-5944. Dr.        
  Philip Wang, Director, Division of Services and Intervention Research;             
  Telephone (301) 443-6233. Dr. Lauren Hill, Research Training and Career            
  Development, Division of Services and Intervention Research; Telephone (301)       
  443-2638. Dr. Robert Mays, Acting Director, Office for Special Populations;        
  Telephone (301) 443-2847. Training Coordinators, Dr. Mark Chavez;                  
  Telephone: (301) 443-9700 and Dr. Nancy Desmond; Telephone: (301) 443-             
  3107. Grants Management Contact: Ms. Rebecca Claycamp, Grants                      
  Management Officer, National Institute of Mental Health, National Institutes of    
  Health, Department of Health and Human Services; 6001 Executive Blvd, Room         
  6122, MSC 9605, Bethesda, MD 20892; Telephone (301) 443-2811. Use the              
  same numbers for FTS.                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.nimh.nih.gov .                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.242, Mental Health Research Grants; 93.281, Mental Health Research              
  Career/Scientist Development Awards.                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  (1) Understanding mental illness and behavioral disorders; (2) diagnosis and       
  interventions for mental disorders; (3) mental health service delivery and         
  evaluation; and (4) basic neuroscience, behavioral science, and genetic science    
  relevant to mental disorders.                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The following considerations will be used in determining projects to be funded.    
  For Training Grants: (1) quality of the proposed training program as determined    
  by peer review; (2) availability of funds; and (3) program priority. For           
  Fellowships: (1) overall merit of the application; (2) relevance of the application
  to the research priorities and mission of the institute and programs; and (3)      
  availability of funds.                                                             
                                                                                     
93.283 CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND                                               
                                                                                     
PREVENTION-INVESTIGATIONS AND TECHNICAL

                                                                                     
ASSISTANCE                                                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT                             
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, as amended; Sections 301, 307, 310, 311, 317(k)(2),     
  322(e), 325, 327, 328, 352, 361-369 and 1703 of the PHS Act, (42 U.S.C.            
  Sections 243, 247b(k)(2)and 300u-2), as amended; Federal Mine Safety and           
  Health Amendments Act of 1977, as amended; Occupational Safety and Health          
  Act of 1970; Departments of Labor, Health and Human Services, Education, and       
  Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1988, Public Law 100-202.                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assist State and local health authorities and other health related organizations
  in controlling communicable diseases, chronic diseases and disorders, and other    
  preventable health conditions. Investigations and evaluation of all methods of     
  controlling or preventing disease and disability are carried out by providing      
  epidemic aid, surveillance, technical assistance, consultation, and program        
  support; and by providing leadership and coordination of joint national, State,    
  and local efforts. STEPS- To enable communities to reduce the burden of            
  chronic disease, including: preventing diabetes among populations with pre-        
  diabetes; increasing the likelihood that persons with undiagnosed diabetes are     
  diagnosed; reducing complications of diabetes; preventing overweight and           
  obesity; reducing overweight and obesity; and reducing the complications of        
  asthma. STEPS will achieve these outcomes by improving nutrition; increasing       
  physical activity; preventing tobacco use and exposure, targeting adults who are   
  diabetic or who live with persons with asthma; increasing tobacco cessation,       
  targeting adults who are diabetic or who live with persons with asthma;            
  increasing use of appropriate health care services; improving the quality of care; 
  and increasing effective self-management of chronic diseases and associated risk   
  factors.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  To strengthen State and local disease prevention and control programs, such as     
  tuberculosis, childhood immunization, and sexually-transmitted diseases. To        
  support national and local programs to combat disability related to epilepsy       
  through education, partnership development, and enhanced communication.            
  Services and program support: Epidemic aid; technical assistance (field studies    
  and investigations of ongoing disease problems; occupational safety and health);   
  consultation; dissemination of technical information; and provision of             
  specialized services and assistance, including responses to public health          
  emergencies. Training: Training State and local health professionals in broad      
  areas of epidemiology, disability, and research programs such as hospital          
  infections, hepatitis, vector-borne diseases, food-borne diseases, epilepsy, and   
  tuberculosis, at the State or other health related organization's request.) To     
                                                                                     
                                                                                11-08
  support capacity building, program planning, development, implementation,
  evaluation, and surveillance for current and emerging chronic disease conditions
  related to tobacco use. To achieve four Program Goals through community
  interventions and mobilization; counter-marketing; policy development and
  implementation, and surveillance and evaluation. Goals include preventing
  initiation to tobacco use among young people; eliminate exposure to second
  hand smoke; promote cessation among adults and young people who use
  tobacco; and identify and eliminate tobacco-related disparities among specific
  population groups. Lead regional efforts to prevent and reduce the use of
  tobacco and exposure to secondhand smoke. Conduct evaluations and
  implementation of culturally relevant and community competent tobacco control
  and prevention strategies and continue regional capacity building efforts. To
  address goal four of the National Tobacco Control Program (Identify and
  Eliminate Tobacco-Related Disparities). To increase the o eliminate health
  disparities among segments of the population, including differences that occur
  by gender, race or ethnicity, education, income, disability, geographic location,
  or sexual orientation. Establish a National Network consortium among six
  priority populations to coordinate and evaluate tobacco control and prevention
  initiatives through a broad national strategy to prevent and reduce tobacco use
  and exposure to second hand smoke and to eliminate tobacco-related disparities
  among priority populations. To provide funding to establish and/or enhance
  state-based telephone quitlines to provide tobacco cessation telephone
  counseling to the public at large. To fund projects that address the promotion of
  cessation among adults and young people who use tobacco (quitlines.) Address
  at the National level the promotion of cessation among adults and young people
  who use tobacco (quitlines). To build state arthritis programs that exponentially
  expand access and use of evidence-based interventions by embedding
  intervention programs into existing systems, conducting surveillance and data
  analysis to inform decision making, and developing state-level intervention,
  policy, and communication focused partnerships that further program goals. To
  strengthen state oral health programs and public health core capacity and to
  reduce inequalities in the oral health of targeted populations. To improve state
  public health programs, including support for program leadership and staff, to
  monitor oral health risk factors, and for developing and evaluating prevention
  programs. To support evidenced- based interventions to prevent oral disease,
  including community water fluoridation and school-based dental sealant
  programs. To identify and disseminate information on best practices for state
  and community oral health programs. To assess state programs and provide
  recommendations to address gaps and weaknesses. To collaborate in
  development of the National Oral Health Surveillance
  Systemandtocosponsorthe annual National Oral Health Conference. To develop
  initiatives related to oral disease prevention and chronic disease and health
  promotion capacity. To improve and strengthen state oral health infrastructure
  by providing technical assistance to state health agencies and coalitions,
  developing and i impl ementing a plan to advancetheSurgeonGeneral's National
  Call to Action to Promote Oral Health. To coordinate the dissemination of
  comprehensive oral disease prevention information and health promotion
  programmatic expertise among state and local agencies and public and private
  sector organizations in the United States. To develop and promote policies to
  address oral disease prevention for high-risk adults. To identify modifiable
  barriers to optional care across diverse managed care settings.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, political subdivisions of States, local health authorities, Federally
  recognized or state recogonized American Indian/Alaska Native tribal
  governments and organizations with specialized health interests may apply.
  Colleges, universities, private nonprofit and public nonprofit domestic
  organizations, research institutions, faith-based organizations, and managed care
  organizations for some specific programs such as Diabetes.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, political subdivisions of States, local health authorities, and individuals
  or organizations with specialized health interests will benefit Colleges,
  universities, private non-profit and public nonprofit domestic organizations,
  research institutions, faith-based organizations, and managed care organizations
  for some specific programs such as Diabetes.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. For other grantees, costs will be determined by HHS
  regulations 45 CFR 74, Subpart Q.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in the State for more information on the
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review. When indicated in individual program
  announcements, applications are subject to review in accordance with the
  National Health Planning and Resources Development Act, Public Law 93-641,
  as amended. For the technical assistance component of this program, when
  indicated in individual program announcements, applications are eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372. This program is eligible for coverage under the
  Public Health System Reporting Requirements. Under these requirements, all
                                                                                  1379
