  recruit dental health professionals, identify and develop additional resources,   
  and staff a statewide advisory committee. The State also plans to develop a       
  State oral health plan. Nevada also received funding to implement a school-       
  based dental sealant program in 17 school districts. (9) Cooperative Agreements   
  to managed care organizations (TRIAD)-- a multicenter cohort study of diabetes    
  in managed care settings. (10) Cooperative agreement program is to fund           
  organizations that will provide technical assistance to states and local          
  governments and other entities including nontraditional partners (partners that   
  do not usually have public health as their primary mission and goal, but will     
  have areas of common or overlapping interest that includes public health, such    
  as, but not limited to, education organizations, healthcare organizations, faith- 
  based/community organizations and other federal or tribal agencies) to            
  strengthen the nation's public health capacity by improving the quality and       
  performance of public health practice, public health systems, public health data  
  and data systems, and the public health workforce.                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  None.                                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
93.284 INJURY PREVENTION PROGRAM FOR AMERICAN                                       
INDIANS AND ALASKAN NATIVES-COOPERATIVE                                             
AGREEMENTS                                                                          
                                                                                    
   (Injury Prevention)                                                              
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                             
  SERVICES                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301(a), as amended.                            
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                    
  To improve the quality of the health of American Indians and Alaska Natives by

                                                                                    
  developing the capacity of tribes to address their injury problems.

                                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                    
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).

                                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                    
  The assistance is used for three types of injury prevention related projects: (1)

                                                                                    
  Part I Basic: Build or enhance local injury prevention capacity; and (2) Part II

                                                                                    
  Intervention: Implement a proven or promising injury prevention intervention.

                                                                                    
  This assistance is available to federally-recognized Indian tribes, tribal

                                                                                    
  organizations, and urban Indian organizations.

                                                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                    
  Federally-recognized tribes, tribal organizations, non-profit organizations

                                                                                    
  serving primarily American Indians and Alaska Natives, and urban Indian

                                                                                    
  organizations may apply.

                                                                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                    
  Individuals who are members of an eligible applicant tribe, band, or group or

                                                                                    
  village and who may be regarded as within the scope of the Indian health and

                                                                                    
  medical service program and who are regarded as an Indian by the community in

                                                                                    
  which he lives as evidenced by such factors as tribal membership, enrollment,

                                                                                    
  residence on tax exempt land, ownership or restricted property, active            
  participation in tribal affairs or other relevant factors in keeping with general 
  Bureau of Indian Affairs practices in the jurisdiction.                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Certification of American Indian or Alaska descent is required for direct         
  services. Provisions of cooperative agreement require tribal endorsement in the   
  form of Resolution to sanction tribal participation. Costs will be determined in  
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State, local, and Indian tribal         
  governments (and Circular No. A-122 for Nonprofit Organizations)                  
  implemented through applicable grant administration regulations 45 CFR, 92        
  (45 CFR, 74 for nonprofit organizations).                                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  An applicant seeking to serve more than one tribe must have approval of each      
  tribe involved via a resolution. This program is excluded from coverage under     
  E.O. 12372.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Standard application forms, as furnished by IHS and required by 45 CFR, 92, for   
  State and local governments and 45 CFR, 74, for nonprofit organizations, must     
  be used for this program. Injury Prevention Programs are processed and            
  administered by IHS Headquarters. This program is subject to the provisions of    
  45 CFR 92 for Indian tribes and Part 74 for Nonprofit organizations, and OMB      
  Circulars No. A-110 and A-102.                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Cooperative agreements are awarded on a competitive basis with processing and     
  final approved by Indian Health Service Headquarters.                             
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Cooperative agreement applications must be submitted as required in the

  program announcement.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Cooperative agreements are approved/disapproved within 90 days to 120 days        
  from receipt of the application/proposal in IHS Headquarters.



                                                                               11-08
Appeals:
  Cooperative agreement appeals will follow PHS appeals procedures: 42 CFR,
  Part 50 Subpart D and DHHS appeals procedures: 45 CFR, Part 16.
Renewals:
  Renewal of multi-year cooperative agreements is on a year-to-year basis and
  requires the submission of continuation applications.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Administrative requirements under 45 CFR, 92, for grants to Indian tribal
  governments and 45 CFR, 74 to nonprofit tribal organizations and urban Indian
  organizations.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations"
  entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards
  will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133. In
  addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspection and audits
  by DHHS and other Federal government officials.
Records:
  HHS and the Comptroller General of the United States or any of their authorized
  representatives, shall have the right of access to any books, documents, papers,
  or other records of a grantee, subgrantee, contractor, or subcontractor, that are
  pertinent to the HHS grant in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts and
  transcripts. In accordance with 45 CFR, 92.42, grantees are required to maintain
  grant records 3 years after they submit their final expenditures report. If any
  litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records has been
  started before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records must be retained
  until completion of the action and resolution of all issues arising from it, or until
  the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.
Account Identification:
  75-0390-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) Injury Prevention: FY 07 $1,690,505; FY 08
  $1,400,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Injury Prevention: Part I Basic Core Capacity Injury Prevention up to $75,000;
  Part II Injury Intervention up to $10,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is estimated that 33 cooperative agreements will be awarded in fiscal year
  2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 92 and 45 CFR 74, PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication
  No. (OASH) 94-50,000 (Rev. April 1, 1994); Program Guidelines for
  Competitive Projects.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for Indian Health Service Area Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Injury Prevention Program Contact: Ms. Nancy Bill, Injury Prevention Program
  Manager, Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, Suite 120, Rockville,
  MD 20852. Telephone: (301) 443-1054. For Grants Contact: Ms. Kimberly
  Pendleton, Senior Grants Management Officer, Division of Grants Operations,
  Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, TMP, Suite 360, Rockville, MD
  20852. Telephone: (301) 443-5204. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ihs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Basic Core Capacity Injury Prevention Program Development or Enhanced
  Injury Prevention Program Development, implementation of proven or
  promising injury prevention projects that are based on addressing local injury
  problems and provision of training for tribes, tribal organizations, and urban
  Indian organizations to address local injury prevention issues and concerns.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) The apparent capability of the applicant to organize and manage the
  proposed project successfully considering the adequacy of staff, management
  systems, equipment and facilities; (2) the soundness of the applicant's plan for
  conducting the project and for assuring effective utilization of grant funds; (3)
  the adequacy of the budget in relation to the scope of the project and available
  funds; and (4) the relative effectiveness of the applicant's plan to carry out each
  of the requirements as set forth in the application.
93.285 NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH PEDIATRIC
RESEARCH LOAN REPAYMENT PROGRAM
                                                                                    1381
