   (NIH Pediatric Research Loan Repayment Program; PR-LRP)                              
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                               
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Public Health Service Act, Title IV, Part G, Section 487F, Public Law 106-310,        
  42 U.S.C. 288-6.                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To attract and retain health professionals to pediatric research careers by offering  
  educational loan repayment for participants who agree by written contract to          
  engage in pediatric research in a qualifying nonprofit institution for a minimum      
  of 2 years.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  To provide repayment of extant educational loans incurred by health                   
  professionals engaged in pediatric research in a qualified nonprofit institution or   
  Federal or other domestic government agency (State or local), and who are             
  engaged in research that is supported by a nonprofit foundation, nonprofit            
  professional association, or other nonprofit entity, or a Federal or other domestic   
  government agency (State, local). Recipients must agree by written contract to        
  engage in such research, initially, for a minimum of 2 years; individuals who         
  have conflicting service obligations may not participate in this program until        
  those obligations are satisfied or have been deferred during the period of            
  program service. Participants may apply for and the Secretary may grant               
  extension contracts for one-year or two-year periods, as determined by the            
  Secretary, if the individual continues to engage in qualifying research. Renewal      
  applications are competitively reviewed and the submission of a renewal               
  application does not assure the award of benefits. Maximum program benefit is         
  $35,000 per year in loan repayments and $13,650 per year in Federal tax               
  reimbursements, plus discretionary state and local tax reimbursements.                
  Recipients must have qualified educational debt in excess of 20 percent of their      
  annual salary, which is referred to as their "debt threshold." An amount equal to     
  half of this "debt threshold" will not be repaid by NIH and must be paid by the       
  program participants.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Eligible applicants must: (1) be a U.S. citizen, U.S. national, or permanent          
  resident of the United States; (2) have a Ph.D., M.D., D.O., D.D.S., D.M.D.,          
  D.P.M., Pharm.D., D.C., N.D., or equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited        
  institution; (3) have total qualifying educational loan debt equal to or in excess    
  of 20 percent of their institutional base salary on the date of program eligibility   
  (the effective date that a loan repayment contract has been executed by the           
  Secretary of Health and Human Services or designee); (4) conduct qualifying           
  research supported by a domestic nonprofit foundation, nonprofit professional         
  association, or other nonprofit institution, or a U.S. or other government agency     
  (Federal, State, or local); (5) engage in qualified pediatric research (pediatric     
  research is research that is directly related to diseases, disorders, and other       
  conditions in children); (6) engage in qualified pediatric research for at least 50   
  percent of their time, i.e., not less than 20 hours per week based on a 40 hour       
  week; (7) agree to conduct research for which funding is not prohibited by            
  Federal law, regulation, or HHS/NIH policy, and in accordance with applicable         
  Federal, State and local law (e.g., applicable human subject protection               
  regulations); and (8) sign and submit to the Secretary of Health and Human            
  Services, at the time of application submission, a contract agreeing to engage in     
  pediatric research in a qualifying institution for a minimum of 2 years. Full-time    
                                                                                        
  employees of Federal Government agencies are ineligible to apply for LRP

                                                                                        
  benefits. Part-time Federal employees who engage in qualifying research as part

                                                                                        
  of their non-Federal duties for at least 20 hours per week based on a 40 hour

                                                                                        
  week, and who are not compensated as Federal employees for their research, are

                                                                                        
  eligible to apply for loan repayment if they meet all other eligibility

                                                                                        
  requirements.

                                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  Health professionals who are interested in pursuing pediatric research careers

                                                                                        
  who have unpaid educational loans will benefit from this program.

                                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                        
  Applicants electronically transmit the following documents to the NIH:

                                                                                        
  Applicant Information Statement, Biosketch, Personal Statement, Description of

                                                                                        
  Research Activities, 3 Recommendations, Loan Information including current

                                                                                        
  account statement(s) and promissory note(s) or disclosure statement(s),

                                                                                        
  Assessment of Research Activities Statement (completed by the research                
  supervisor), and Description of the Research Environment (completed by the            
  research supervisor), Training or Mentoring Plan (completed by the research           
  supervisor). Institutional Contacts electronically transmit a certification that: (a) 
  assures the applicant will be provided the necessary time and resources to            
  engage in the research project for two years from the date a Loan Repayment           
  Program Contract is executed; (b) assures that the applicant is or will be engaged    
  in qualifying research for 50 percent of their time (or not less than 20 hours per    
  week based on a 40 hour week); (c) certifies that the institution is non-profit       
  (exempt from tax under 26 USC 501), and (d) provides the applicant's



1382                                                                              11-08

  institutional base salary.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must access and submit the Loan Repayment Program application
  via the website www.lrp.nih.gov. Applications submitted to the NIH Division of
  Loan Repayment are first examined to determine if the basic eligibility
  requirements are satisfied. If these requirements are met, the application is
  forwarded to the NIH Center for Scientific Review for a determination regarding
  which NIH Institute or Center the application will be assigned to for review,
  scoring, and ranking.
Award Procedure:
  The NIH Institutes and Centers approve or disapprove applications for
  participation in the Pediatric Research Loan Repayment Program. When an
  Institute or Center approves an application, the NIH Office of Loan Repayment
  notifies individuals of their award amount, provides a repayment schedule that
  covers the period of participation, and a Loan Repayment Program Contract is
  executed by an authorized representative of the Secretary, DHHS. If the
  approved research assignment changes, or if the employing research institution
  changes, the participant must have their continued eligibility re-certified by the
  Institute or Center which approved their application. Contact the NIH via e-mail
  at LRP@NIH.GOV for further guidance.
Deadlines:
  Review the Loan Repayment Program website www.lrp.nih.gov, or contact the
  Headquarters Office listed below for the application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The approximate time for approval/disapproval is 6 months from the closing
  date of the annual application period.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  At the conclusion of the initial 2-year contract, participants may apply and be
  considered for subsequent 1 or 2-year continuation contracts under the
  application and approval procedures specified above. Eligible renewal
  applications that score within the funding range receive continuation contracts.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is available for a minimum 2-year period. One or 2-year continuation
  contracts are available for eligible individuals whose renewal applications score
  within the funding range. Payments will be made directly to lenders, following
  each quarter of the participant's satisfactory service, unless otherwise agreed
  upon by the participant and Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Reports:
  Program participants must be periodically certified by their research supervisor
  to have been engaged in the qualifying research project for a minimum 50
  percent effort (not less than 20 hours per week based on a 40 hour week) during
  the service period.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  The NIH will maintain applicant records for 3 years after rejection and
  participant records for 6 years after completion of final service obligation.
Account Identification:
  75-4554-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Loan Repayments) FY 07 $17,328,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est
  not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For initial two-year contract periods, loan repayments awards may range from
  $2,394 to $70,000; Tax reimbursements range from $934 to $31,679. The
  average cost which includes loan and tax reimbursement is $50,843.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  NIH estimates that 391 awards will be made in fiscal year 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Pertinent information is contained in the Public Health Service Act, Title IV,
  Part G, Section 487F, Public Law 106-310, 42 U.S.C. 288-6. The NIH PR-LRP
  was initially announced by publication of a Notice in the Federal Register (Vol.
  66, No. 173), and updated in Federal Register (Vol. 68, No. 61).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program and Business Contact: Alfred C. Johnson, Ph.D., Division of Loan
  Repayment, National Institutes of Health, 6011 Executive Blvd., Room 206,
  MSC 7650, Bethesda, MD 20892-7650. LRP Helpline: (1-866) 849-4047. Fax:
  (1-866) 849-4046. E-mail: lrp@nih.gov .
Web Site Address:
  www.lrp.nih.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.162, National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program; 93.164,
