  Indian Health Service Educational Loan Repayment; 93.209, Contraception and        
  Infertility Research Loan Repayment Program; 93.220, Clinical Research Loan        
  Repayment Program for Individuals from Disadvantaged Backgrounds; 93.307,          
  Minority Health and Health Disparities Research; 93.308, Extramural Loan           
  Repayment for Individuals from Disadvantaged Backgrounds Conducting                
  Clinical Research; 93.364, Nursing Student Loans; 93.936, National Institutes of   
  Health Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome Research Loan Repayment                  
  Program.                                                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Transgenic zebrafish models of acute leukemia. The role of the Ku                  
  Heterodimmer in Telomere function and chromosome stability. Gene therapy           
  for the treatment of primary immunodeficiencies. Pilot study of hypericum for      
  juvenile depression.                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The NIH Institutes and Centers approve or disapprove applications for              
  participation in the Pediatric Research Loan Repayment Program. Applications       
  that are on time, complete and eligible are referred to the appropriate NIH        
  Institute or Center by the NIH Center for Scientific Review. The NIH Institutes    
  and Centers convene panels comprised of non-NIH scientists to review, score        
  and rank applications. In evaluating the application, reviewers are directed to    
  consider the following components as they relate to the likelihood that the        
  applicant will continue in a research career: (1) potential of the applicant to    
  pursue a career in research, and (2) quality of the overall environment to prepare 
  the applicant for a research career.                                               
                                                                                     
93.286 DISCOVERY AND APPLIED RESEARCH FOR                                            
                                                                                     
TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATIONS TO IMPROVE HUMAN                                           
HEALTH                                                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                            
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act; Title IV, Sections 401(b)(1) and 467z; Public Law       
  106-505.                                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To support hypothesis, design, technology, or devise-driven research relation to   
  the discovery, design, development, validation, and application of technologies    
  related to biomedical imaging and bioengineering. The program includes             
  biomaterials (biomimetics, bioprocessing, organogenesis, rehabilitation, tissue    
  engineering, implant science, material science, interface science, physics and     
  stress engineering, technology assessment of materials/devices),                   
  biosensors/biotransducers (technology development, technology assessment,          
  development of algorithms, telemetry), nanotechnology (nanoscience,                
  biomimetics, drug delivery systems, drug bioavailability,                          
  microarray/combinatorial technology, genetic engineering, computer science,        
  technology assessment), bioinformatics (computer science, information science,     
  mathematics, biomechanics, computational modeling and simulation, remote           
  diagnosis and therapy), imaging device development, biomedical imaging             
  technology development, image exploitation, contrast agents, informatics and       
  computer sciences related to imaging, molecular and cellular imaging,              
  bioelectrics/biomagnetics, organ and whole body imaging, screening for diseases    
  and disorders, and imaging technology assessment and surgery (technique            
  development and technology development).                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Research Grant funds may be used for salaries, consultation, equipment, travel     
  and other usual costs, subject to Federal regulations applicable to the grant.     
  Individual National Research Service Awards (NRSAs) are made directly to           
  individuals for research training in specified areas related to the mission of     
  NIBIB. Institutional NRSAs may be made to institutions to enable them to           
  accept individuals for research training. Each individual who receives a NRSA      
  postdoctoral fellowship or traineeship is obligated upon termination of the award  
  to comply with certain service and payback provisions. Small Business              
  Innovation Research (SBIR) Phase I grants are to establish the technical merit     
  and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a commercial        
  product or process. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to apply for Phase II       
  support. Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Phase I grants are to           
  determine the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the   
  proposed cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase   
  II funding is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and 
  technical merit and commercial potential of the Phase II application.              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Any corporation, public or private institution or agency, or other legal entity,   
  either nonprofit or for-profit, may apply for a research grant. An applicant for   
  an individual NRSA must be a citizen of the United States or lawfully admitted     
  for permanent residence. Those on temporary or student visas are not eligible.     
  An eligible institution for an institutional NRSA must be capable of providing     
                                                                                     
                                                                                11-08
  predoctoral and/or postdoctoral research training opportunities for engineers,
  bioengineers or other. SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small
  businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit; are not
  dominant in the field in which research is being proposed; and have no more
  than 500 employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of the
  principal investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and
  during the conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the
  research must be performed in the United States or its possessions. To be eligible
  for funding, a grant application must be reviewed for scientific merit and
  program relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council.
  STTR grants can be awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities
  that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the
  field in which research is proposed and have no more than 500 employees)
  which "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and
  development. At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small
  business concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both
  Phase I and Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. or its
  possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for
  scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific review group and a
  national advisory council.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in
  biomedical research.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Credentials/Documentation: Each applicant for research projects must present a
  research plan and furnish evidence that scientific competence, facilities,
  equipment, and supplies are appropriate to carry out the plan. For an individual
  NRSA, the applicant's academic record, research experience, citizenship, and
  institutional sponsorship should be documented in the application. For an
  institutional NRSA, the applicant organization must show the objectives,
  methodology and resources for the research training program, the qualifications
  and experience of directing staff, the criteria to be used in selecting individuals
  for awards, and detailed budget justification for the amount of grant funds
  requested. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21,
  Cost Principles for Educational Institutions and OMB Circular No. A-87 for
  State and local governments. For-profit organizations' costs are determined in
  accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other
  grantees, costs will be determined by HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74,
  Subpart Q. For SBIR and STTR grants, applicant organization (small business
  concern) must present in a research plan an idea that has potential for
  commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific competence,
  experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested are appropriate
  to carry out the plan. Use of PHS 398 (Rev. 5/01; updated 8/8/03) and
  associated forms are required for all applications submitted to the NIH.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application Form PHS 398 (Rev. 5/01; updated 8/8/03) is the standard form.
  Application kits are available at most institutional offices of sponsored research
  and may be obtained from the Office of Extramural Outreach and Information
  Resources, National Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive, MSC 7910,
  Bethesda, MD 20892-7910, Telephone: (301) 435-0714, E-mail:
  grantsinfo@nih.gov . Alternatively, the application kit can be obtained on the
  World Wide Web, http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html.
  Completed applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific Review,
  National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. The standard application
  forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR Part 92 for State and local
  governments, must be used for this program. The same application form will be
  used for all types of applications including training (NRSA), both individual and
  institutional, and SBIR/STTR. The training (NRSA) program is subject to the
  provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State and local governments and OMB
  Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations. SBIR and STTR Grant
  Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained electronically
  through the NIH's "Small Business Funding Opportunities" home page at
  www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World Wide Web. A limited
  number of hard copies of these publications are produced. Subject to
  availability, they may be obtained by contacting the NIH support services
  contractor: Telephone: (301) 206-9385; Fax: (301) 206-9722; E-mail:
  a2y@cu.nih.gov . The Solicitations include submission procedures, review
  considerations, and grant application or contract proposal forms. SBIR and
  STTR grant applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific
  Review, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1040 - MSC 7710, Bethesda, MD 20892-
  7710.
Award Procedure:
  All applications for research or training are reviewed for scientific merit by an
  appropriate initial review group and then by a national advisory council. All
  applications favorably recommended compete for available funds on the basis of
  scientific merit and program emphasis. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications
  are evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer
  review panel and by a national advisory council or board. All applications
                                                                                  1383
