  technological innovation, originality, or societal importance of the proposed      
  research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for commercial application;   
  (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the work proposed; (7) the      
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (8)       
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for      
  (a)safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or         
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.                                  
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.288 NATIONAL HEALTH SERVICE CORPS                                                 
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM                                                                  
   (NHSC Scholarship Program)                                                        
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, Title III, Sections 338A and 338C-E, 338G.              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To increase the supply of primary care physicians, dentists, behavioral and        
  mental health professionals, certified nurse midwives, certified family nurse      
  practitioners, and physician assistants and, if needed by the National Health      
                                                                                     
  Service Corps, other health professionals in Health Professional Shortage Areas

                                                                                     
  (HPSA) within the United States by providing service-obligated scholarships to

                                                                                     
  health professions students.

                                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Service-obligated scholarships for full-time students of allopathic (M.D.) and     
  osteopathic (D.O.) medicine, dentistry, family nurse practitioner, nurse           
  midwifery, and primary care physician assistants. Other health disciplines may     
  be included if needed by National Health Service Corps. Scholarships pay           
                                                                                     
  tuition and required fees to the school, a stipend to students and a single annual

                                                                                     
  payment to the student to assist with other reasonable educational expenses.

                                                                                     
  Reasonable expenses include books, supplies, equipment, uniforms, travel for

                                                                                     
  the provision of clinical services, etc. The program requires a 1 year of service  
  with a minimum 2-year service commitment post graduation. A maximum of 4           
  years of support may be awarded. Service is primarily a nonfederal salaried or     
  contracted employee of a public or private non-profit entity, providing full-time  
  primary health services. Services may also be in a fee for service private practice
  setting, or a Federal employee in Federal health systems such as the Indian        
  Health Service, Immigration Health Service or Bureau of Prisons. Service sites     
  are selected by the scholarship recipient from the list of high priority sites in  
  HPSAs identified by the NHSC. Physicians receive their site list at the            
  beginning of their last year of residency training; nurse practitioners, nurse     
  midwives, and physician assistants receive their site list within 6 months of their
  graduation. Service sites are limited to the United States, territories, and       
  successor States to the Trust Territories, the Republic of Marshall Islands, the   
  Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau. Deferments of           
  service are granted to physicians to complete residencies in family practice,      
  internal medicine, pediatrics, psychiatry, and obstetrics/gynecology.              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  At the time of award, the applicant must be a U.S. citizen or national. The        
  applicant must be enrolled or accepted for enrollment in an accredited school in   
  the U.S., in a course of study leading to a degree in medicine, osteopathic        
  medicine, dentistry, or other health professions. The applicant must be free of    
  any Federal judgment liens or service obligation, have not defaulted on a Federal  
  debt, and have no conflicting service obligation. The applicant must submit an     
  application and a signed contract to the National Health Service Corps, Division   
  of Applications and Awards, the Bureau of Clinician Recruitment and Service        
  by the last Friday in March, agreeing to accept payment of scholarship and         
  provide full-time primary health services in a Health Professional Shortage Area.  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  U.S. citizens or nationals enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a State in a     
  course of study leading to a degree in medicine, osteopathic medicine, dentistry   
  or other health profession.                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be     
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov website at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for Clinicians Recruitment and      
  Service. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections

  for awards.



                                                                                11-08
Award Procedure:
  NHSC scholarship awards are very competitive; the Program anticipates more
  applicants for scholarship awards than there are funds available. The
  applications of individuals who meet the eligibility criteria are scored
  numerically. All applicants will be notified if they are selected.
Deadlines:
  Contact HRSA at www.hrsa.gov for deadline date(s).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Notification to successful and rejected applicants is made no later than 6 months
  after deadline from receipt of application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewal applications are not necessary for students in compliance; contracts
  may be multi-year funded through graduation (1 to 4 years, if the applicant signs
  the contract through the graduation date).
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Each award covers 1 to 4 years of support, as requested. No awardees may
  receive more than 4 years of support.
Reports:
  Annual reports by schools indicating average student educational expenses. The
  academic institution where the student is enrolled must complete and submit a
  Verification of Enrollment Form each semester as a full-time student pursuing
  the program for which the scholarship was awarded. The employing facility
  must complete and send a semi-annual Employment Certification Form
  verifying that the participating health professional is involved full-time. The
  certification includes a signature by an appropriate official of the facility.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 15,000,000; FY 08 $14,805,558; and FY 09 est $14,200,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $40,000 to $320,000; $150,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Total awards made for FY 07 was 85 and an estimate for FY 08 is 85.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  National Health Service Corps Scholarship Program, Division of Applications
  and Awards, Bureau of Clinician Recruitment and Service (BCRS), Health
  Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human
  Services, Room 8A-55, 5600 Fishers Lane,. Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:
  (301) 594-4400. For 24-hour toll-free calls from outside MD: (1-800) 221-9393,
  use for requesting applications.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Rockville, MD 20857. Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and
  Training Branch: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch:
  (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.108, Health Education Assistance Loans; 93.162, National Health Service
  Corps Loan Repayment Program; 93.364, Nursing Student Loans; 93.972,
  Health Professions Scholarship Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Scholarships covering tuition, monthly stipends and payments for other
  reasonable education expenses made to medical school students, dental students,
  as well as for students of family nurse practitioner, nurse midwifery and
  physician assistant programs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  By statute, first priority will be given to any applicant for such assistance, who
  has previously received a scholarship under this section or under section 758 of
  the PHS Act. Priority for consideration will be given to all students who have
  characteristics which increase the probability they will continue professional
  practice in a Health Professional Shortage Area when they complete their service
  obligation. Third priority will be given to students who are from a
  "disadvantaged background."
                                                                                 1385
