93.289 PRESIDENT'S COUNCIL ON PHYSICAL FITNESS                                         
                                                                                       
AND SPORTS

                                                                                       
   (PCPFS)                                                                             
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                              
  SERVICES                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  PCPFS was established by Executive Order 10673 dated July 16, 1956. The              
  focus and scope of the Council have been changed periodically by previous            
  Administrations, i.e., Executive Order 12345 dated February 2, 1982 as               
  amended, Executive Order 12694; Executive Order 13138 dated September 30,            
  1999 and most recently by Executive Order 13265 dated June 6, 2002. PCPFS            
  is governed by the provisions of Public Law 92-463 as amended; 5 U.S.C.              
  Appendix 2. The most recent authority was given under Executive Order 13446          
  dated September 28, 2007.                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  PCPFS has no grant making authority; the Council has no funds available to           
  offer any type of financial assistance. The objectives of the PCPFS are confined     
  to promotion of physical activity and fitness for Americans of all ages by           
  encouraging development, implementation and improvement of physical                  
  activity, fitness and sports programs. These objectives are accomplished by          
  providing consultation and technical assistance, general publications and a web      
  site, and by means of program evaluation and guidance to schools, government         
  agencies, employee organizations, industrial organizations, recreation and park      
  departments, youth organizations and others who wish to introduce or improve         
  physical activity and fitness or sports programs.                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Advisory Services and Counseling.                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The Council does not have grant-making authority; the Council has no funds           
  available, to offer any type of financial assistance. Activities are largely limited 
  to public information, synthesis of latest research and other information about      
  physical activity/fitness and sports in lay terms. The Council provides advice       
  and counsel to government agencies, educators, private organizations, and the        
  private sector on how to promote physical activity/fitness and sports. It also       
  provides advisory services to government, non-profit and educational                 
  organizations and institutions and the private sector on development,                
  implementation and promotion of physical activity and fitness programs in            
  diverse communities.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  General public.                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  General public.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  The PCPFS has no funds available to offer any type of financial assistance.

  However, requests for technical assistance and/or advisory and counseling

  services can be submitted to the Council in writing or orally. This program is       
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  None.

Deadlines:                                                                             
  None.

                                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Appeals:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Renewals:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  None.                                                                                
Reports:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Audits:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $1,288,000; FY 08 $1,270,000; and FY 09 est            
  $1,375,000.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None.                                                                                


1386                                                                             11-08

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The PCPFS continues to serve as a catalyst for the Department, to promote,
  encourage, and motivate the development of physical activity/fitness and sports
  participation for all ages and abilities, and to publicize the health benefits of
  regular physical activity. More than six million Americans participate in
  President's Challenge programs each year, including a half million who have
  participated in the on-line Presidential Active Lifestyle or Champions programs
  at www.presidentschallenge.org and over five million youth who participate in
  the Physical Fitness Awards program. Recent accomplishments include the
  launch and implementation of the first/inaugural National President's Challenge
  in March 2008. Americans from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, and
  several U.S. territories participated in this six-week physical activity challenge
  by logging and tracking their physical activity on-line. The top five states are:
  Alaska, Arkansas, Wyoming, Maryland, and Washington, D.C. A new on-line
  Adult Fitness Test was also launched in May 2008. This test was developed in
  response to many baby boomers' requests for an adult version of the youth
  fitness test. In the first week of the launch, over 72,000 people took the on-line
  test at www.adultfitnesstest.org. Other accomplishments include increasing the
  number of President's Challenge Advocates to over 200 from 150, increasing the
  number of science partnerships from five to seven, presentation of the 2nd
  annual Lifetime Achievement and Community Leadership Awards, and
  leadership and participation in the development/process of the HHS Physical
  Activity Guidelines, which will be released in October 2008. PCPFS
  participation in the Guidelines include involvement on the Federal Steering
  Committee, Writing Group and Communications/Partnership subgroup.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Information about PCPFS and other related publications is available on the
  PCPFS website, http://www.fitness.gov. Information about these publications
  also can be obtained by writing the PCPFS or calling the staff office on
  (202)690-9000.
Regional or Local Office:
  Melissa A. Johnson, Executive Director, President's Council on Physical Fitness
  and Sports, Office of Public Health and Science, Office of the Secretary,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue, S.W.,
  Suite 738H, Washington, DC 20201-0004. Telephone: (202) 690-5187, Fax:
  (202) 690-5211. Use the same number for FTS.
Headquarters Office:
  Melissa A. Johnson, Executive Director, President's Council on Physical Fitness
  and Sports, Office of Public Health and Science, Office of the Secretary,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 200 Independence Avenue, S.W.,
  Suite 738H, Washington, DC 20201-0004. Telephone: (202) 690-9000, Fax:
  (202) 690-5211. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fitness.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
93.290 NATIONAL COMMUNITY CENTERS OF
EXCELLENCE IN WOMEN'S HEALTH
   (CCOE or Community Centers of Excellence)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  42 U.S.C. 300u-2(a)(1), 300u-3, and 300u-6(e).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide recognition and funding to community-based programs that unite
  promising approaches in women's health across the following six components:
  (1) Comprehensive health service delivery; (2) training for lay and professional
  health providers; (3) community- based research; (4) public education and
  outreach; 5) leadership development for women as health care consumers and
  providers; and (6) technical assistance to ensure the replication of promising
  models and strategies that coordinate and integrate women's health activities at
  the community level and improve health outcomes for underserved women. The
  focus of the CCOE initiative is to integrate, coordinate, and strengthen linkages
  between activities/programs that are already underway in the community in
  order to reduce fragmentation in women's health services and activities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A majority of the funds from the CCOE award must be used to support staff and
  efforts aimed at coordinating and integrating the major components of the
  CCOE program. The Center Director, or the person responsible for the day-to-
  day management of the CCOE program, must devote at least a 75 percent level
