  of effort to the program. Additionally, 25 percent of the award funding must        
  target efforts to foster the transfer of lessons learned/successful strategies from 
  the CCOE program (technical assistance). Funds may be used for personnel,           
  consultants, supplies (including screening, education, and outreach supplies),      
  and grant related travel. Items costing less than $5,000 are considered to be       
  supplies. Funds may not be used for construction, building alterations, medical     
  treatment, equipment, or renovations. All budget requests must be fully justified   
  in terms of the proposed CCOE goals and objectives and include a                    
  computational explanation of how costs were determined. Applications from           
  academic health centers or organizations that are part of academic health centers   
  and state, county and local health departments will not be accepted. To ensure a    
  wide geographic distribution of the Center of Excellence in Women's Health          
  model, applications will not be accepted from organizations in States or            
  territories that currently have a CCOE or a CoE program. Applications will not      
  be accepted from organizations in the following States/Territories: AZ, CA, IL,     
  IN, LA, MA, MI, MO, MN, NM, NY, OH, PA, PR, VT, WA, and WI.                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The CCOE applicant must be public or private nonprofit community-based              
  hospitals, community health centers, or community-based organizations serving       
  underserved women. Community entities/organizations, including faith-based          
  organizations, that have alliances, partnerships, networks with, or have other      
  affiliations with an academic health center are also eligible to apply for a CCOE   
  grant as long as the community entity/organization has a leading management         
  role in the activity and maintain control of all funds. Organizations that have     
  previously submitted CCOE applications, but were not funded, are also eligible      
  to reapply for this award.                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Underserved women will benefit.                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Each applicant for a cooperative agreement funded under this CCOE                   
  announcement must, at a minimum: (1) present a plan to integrate all six            
  components of the CCOE program by the end of the first year of funding,             
  although only four components have to be in place at the time the application is    
  submitted; (2) develop a CCOE advisory board or ensure that their already           
  established advisory board is included in the decision-making process for CCOE      
  program development, identification of community-based research questions,          
  and formulation of CCOE policies; (3) be a sustainable organization with an         
  established network of partners capable of providing coordinated and integrated     
  women's health services in the targeted community; (4) have an established          
  clinical care center/facility, an operating public educational/outreach program,    
  and a community identified as the recipient of technical assistance at the time     
  the application is submitted; (5) demonstrate the ways in which the organization    
  and the care that are coordinated through its partners are women-focused,           
  women-friendly, women-relevant, and sensitive to the importance of                  
  patient/provider communication/relationships for medically underserved women        
  of all ages; (6) detail/specify the roles and resources/services that each partner  
  organization brings to the program, the duration and terms of agreement as          
  confirmed by a signed agreement between the applicant organization and each         
  partner, and describe how the partner organizations will operated within the        
  CCOE structure; (7) describe in detail plans for the local evaluation of the        
  CCOE program and when and how information obtained from the evaluation              
  will be used to enhance the CCOE program; and(8) describe in detail the             
  planned community-based research and the research methodology/procedure.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review. The application kit to be made           
  available under this notice will contain a listing of States that have chosen to set
  up a review system and will include a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in       
  the State for review. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribes)    
  should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective    
  applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For       
  proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to          
  contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process             
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office on            
  Women's Health does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its           
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date.                
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Application kits may be requested by calling 240-453-8822 or writing to: Ms.        
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office         
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD                
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,           
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,            
                                                                                      
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be

                                                                                      
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format

                                                                                      
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office

                                                                                      
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the

                                                                                      
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from

                                                                                 11-08
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS e-Grants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS e-Grants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be
  incomplete, arrive after the deadline, or are from states that already have a
  CCOE or a CoE program will be returned without comment. Accepted
  applications will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with PHS
  policies. Applications will be evaluated by a technical review panel composed
  of experts in the fields of program management, community service delivery,
  community service delivery, community outreach, health education, community-
  based research, education, training, leadership/career development, and technical
  assistance to other communities. Funding decisions will be determined by the
  Director, Division for Program Management, Office on Women's Health and
  will take into consideration the recommendations and ratings of the review
  panel; program needs, stated preferences; geographic location; and
  recommendations of DHHS Regional Women's Health Coordinators. Preference
  will be given to DHHS regions that do not have a CCOE or a CoE program and
  to programs proposed to be implemented in medically underserved areas,
  enterprise communities, empowerment zones, and applications from Regions IV
  and VIII.
Deadlines:
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will
  be returned to the applicant unread.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days from the application deadline date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  60 to 120 days. Support may be requested for a total project period not to
  exceed 5 years. Non-competing continuation awards of up to $150,000 will be
  made subject to satisfactory performance and availability of funds.
Reports:
  Quarterly progress reports, an annual progress report, an annual Financial Status
  report, a final Progress report, a final Financial Status report, an Audit Report,
  and a Technical Assistance Documentation Report in the format established by
  the Office on Women's Health, in accordance with provisions of the general
  regulations that apply under Monitoring and Reporting Program Performance,
  45 CFR 74, Subpart J and Part 92.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A - 133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.
Account Identification:
  75-0120-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  All awards are made for $150,000 each in total costs (direct and indirect) for a
  12-month period. The average amount is $150,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
                                                                                 1387
