  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the    
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS            
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994); 45 CFR 100 applies.        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: Ms. Barbar James, Program Director, Office on Women's              
  Health, Parklawn Building, Room 16A-55, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville MD             
  20857, email: bjames1@osophs.dhhs.gov . For technical assistance on budget          
  and business aspects of the application may be obtained from the Office of          
  Grants Management. Contact the Office of Public Health and Science, Office of       
  Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852,            
  or phone at (240) 453-8822.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.4woman.gov/owh/CCOE/index.htm .                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  The major component of a CCOE program must consist of activities aimed at           
  developing and strengthening a framework for bringing together a                    
  comprehensive array of services for women, and connecting those with                
  promising strategies to: train a cadre of health care providers that are capable of 
  addressing underserved women's health needs at the community level with an          
  emphasis on prevention or moderation of illness or injury that appear               
  controllable through individual knowledge and behavior; conduct participatory,      
  community-based research in women's health; enhance public education and            
  outreach activities in women's health with an emphasis on prevention or             
  moderation of illness or injury that appear controllable through individual         
  knowledge and behavior; and promote leadership/career development for women         
  in the health professions and women/girls in the community. A project may           
  develop outreach and education materials, training programs, and leadership         
  development activities/materials. Award recipients must also, with input from       
  community representatives, put into place and track a set of measurable             
  objectives for improving health outcomes and decreasing health disparities for      
  underserved women in the community. Each CCOE must also demonstrate an              
  ability to foster the transfer of lessons learned and successful strategies. These  
  may include either process-based lessons (for example: how to bring multiple        
  community partners together) or outcomes-based lessons (for example: how to         
  increase diabetes screening and control through improved outreach, education,       
  and treatment). The CCOEs must foster the replication of promising models           
  from their sites through activities such as showcasing them at meetings and         
  workshops; providing direct technical assistance to other communities;              
  developing replication guides/materials; and providing technical assistance to      
  health professionals, directly or through their professional organizations          
  interested in working with underserved women in the community.                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applications selected for funding will be reviewed using the following criteria:    
  (1) The implementation plan as judged by the appropriateness of the existing        
  community resources and linkages, the appropriateness of the proposed               
  approach, component integration, and specific activities described to address       
  each element of the CCOE program, soundness of the evaluation plan,                 
  willingness to anticipate in the national CCOE evaluation, and willingness to       
  contribute to the development of a comprehensive national CCOE "how-to              
  manual." (2) The management plan which describes the applicant organization's       
  capability to manage the project as determined by the qualifications of the         
  proposed staff or requirements for "to be hired" staff, proposed staff level of     
  effort, management experience of the lead agency and the experience, resources,     
  and role of each partner organization. (3) The evaluation plan and its              
  relationship to program goals. (4) Plans for the provision of technical assistance  
  and the potential for replication of the CCOE model in similar populations and      
  communities. (5) The merit of the objectives outlines by the applicant do           
  address the CCOE program in a way relevant to the targeted community needs          
  and available resources. (6) Adequacy of demonstrated knowledge of systems of       
  health care for underserved women at the local level; demonstrated need within      
  the proposed local community and target population of underserved women;            
  demonstrated support and established linkages in place to operate a fully           
  functional CCOE program; demonstrated access to medically underserved               
  women; and documented past efforts/activities outcome with underserved              
  women.                                                                              
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.291 SURPLUS PROPERTY UTILIZATION                                                   
   (Federal Property Assistance Program)                                              
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  PROGRAM SUPPORT CENTER, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                                    
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949, Section 203(k),           
  Public Law 81-152, 40 U.S.C. 484, as amended; Stewart B. McKinney                   


1388                                                                            11-08

  Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, as amended, 104 Stat. 4673.
OBJECTIVES:
  To convey or lease all surplus Federal real properties made available by the
  disposal agency which are needed and usable by eligible organizations and
  institutions to carry out health programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Real property must be used for eligible health purposes including research. It
  may consist of land with or without buildings and other improvements or
  buildings only. A discount of up to 100 percent based on the proposed-use
  program is granted. This discount applied against the fair value of the property,
  is earned by approved use over a prescribed period of 30 years for land with or
  without improvements, and a lesser time for leased facilities and improvements
  which are sold without land. Allowance of less than 100 percent requires
  payment of the difference in cash at the time of conveyance. Property must be
  used for the purpose for which conveyed, and may not be sold, leased,
  mortgaged, or encumbered without consent of the Department.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, their political subdivisions and instrumentalities; tax-supported public
  health institutions, and nonprofit institutions which (except for institutions
  which lease property to assist the homeless under Title V of Public Law 100-77)
  have been held exempt from taxation under Section 501 (c) (3) of the 1986
  Internal Revenue Code.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Anyone attending, working with or for, or served by the eligible applicants.
  Examples of potentially eligible use programs are hospitals, public health
  clinics, water and sewer systems, institutions for the rehabilitation of mentally or
  physically handicapped, health research institutions, homeless assistance
  facilities, and other institutions with basic health programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must demonstrate current need for properties they request and the
  ability to carry out the proposed program.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Notice of availability of surplus real property is sent by the Division of Property
  Management, Program Support Center (PSC), Department of Health and Human
  Services (DHHS), to all known potentially interested institutions. When
  applying for real property, an informal preapplication conference either in
  person or by telephone is recommended. At that time, consultation and
  assistance are available to aid in the preparation of an application. Applicants
  are required to submit factors for consideration of potential environmental
  impact, in accordance with the Environmental Questionnaire furnished with the
  application instructions. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants interested in acquiring Federal real properties must contact the
  Division of Property Management, PSC, DHHS.
Award Procedure:
  Real property is awarded to the applicant whose programs of use are determined
  to be in the highest public interest. Land (with or without improvements) is
  conveyed by quitclaim deed or lease; buildings for off-site removal are by
  agreement of sale.
Deadlines:
  Any organization interested in acquiring real property must notify the Division
  of Property Management, PSC, DHHS, within 15 days after notice of
  availability, or in the case of acquiring properties for homeless purposes, within
  60 days after publication by Department of Housing and Urban Development in
  the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Normally, approval or disapproval is made within 30 days after an application
  has been submitted for real property. For properties to assist homeless
  individuals under Title V of the McKinney Act, approval or disapproval is made
  25 days after a complete application is received.
Appeals:
  An applicant may appeal a decision to the Division of Property Management,
  PSC, DHHS.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Deed restrictions run for a period of 30 years and Agreements of Sale are
  normally for 5 years, after which the transferee has clear title to the property.
  Restrictions on leased property run for the period of the lease.
Reports:
  Transferees/lessees are required to make an annual utilization report to the
  Division of Property Management, PSC, DHHS, and the property is also visited
  by Division of Property Management personnel.
Audits:
  The Department's Audit agency makes periodic audits of the headquarters
