  operation and may make spot checks of the utilization by real property               
  transferees.                                                                         
Records:                                                                               
  Transferees of real property, who expend funds to rebuild, refurbish, or to          
  otherwise improve property under restrictions, should maintain records of these      
  costs in the event they wish to dispose of the property prior to termination of the  
  restriction period.                                                                  
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-4552-0-1-551.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $454,184; FY 08 est $394,129; and FY 09 est            
  $439,608.                                                                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None.                                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  During fiscal year 2007, Federal surplus real property having an acquisition cost    
  of $28,520,377 was transferred for public health purposes. This represents 8         
  transfers of 45.230 acres of land and 8 buildings. It is estimated that over         
  $4,000,000 in real property will be transferred in fiscal year 2008 for public       
  health purposes.                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Title 45, Subtitle A, Part 12, Disposal and Utilization of Surplus Real Property     
  for Public Health Purposes. Literature: The following pamphlet is available from     
  the Division of Property Management: "How to Acquire Federal Surplus Real            
  Property for Public Health Purposes," at no charge.                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Director, Division of Property Management, Program Support Center,                   
  Department of Health and Human Services, Parklawn Building, Room 5B-17,              
  5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-2265. Fax:              
  (301) 443-0084. E-Mail: rpb@psc.gov.                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.psc.gov.                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  12.600, Community Economic Adjustment; 12.700, Donations/Loans of                    
  Obsolete DOD Property; 39.002, Disposal of Federal Surplus Real Property;            
  39.003, Donation of Federal Surplus Personal Property; 84.145, Federal Real          
  Property Assistance Program.                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Land and buildings are provided for hospitals, clinics, public health                
  administration, water and sewer system development, facilities to assist             
  homeless individuals, and rehabilitation programs.                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  All applications must establish eligibility of the institution, its programs, and the
  proposed use to meet the program needs. A public benefit allowance formula,          
  uniformly applied, determines the respective benefits of each program. Basic         
  allowance of 50 percent is allowed to institutions meeting the following: (1)        
  Proof of current need; (2) ability to operate and maintain; (3) suitability of       
  facilities or adaptability for conversion; (4) requirement for utilization through   
  period of restrictions; and (5) nondiscrimination because of race, color, sex, age,  
  handicap, or national origin. Additional allowances are made for tax support,        
  accreditation, hardship, integrated research, outpatient services, public services,  
  and training programs. For competing programs, the one showing the greatest          
  public benefit is selected. Where property can be divided, as many compatible        
  programs as possible are accommodated.                                               
                                                                                       
93.294 MENTORING PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM -                                                 
PROTEGE                                                                                
                                                                                       
   (Protege)                                                                           
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                              
  SERVICES                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  This program is authorized by 42 U.S.C. 300u-2(a).                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The purpose of the Mentoring Partnership Program' Protege is to strengthen the       
  organizational infrastructure and program services of small non-profit               
  organizations so they may deliver improved HIV/AIDS prevention and support           
  services to women most at risk for acquiring HIV/AIDS and women with                 
  positive HIV serostatus. With a sound infrastructure and culturally competent,       
  gender-focused program services, women will increase their HIV prevention            
  knowledge and reduce the risk of contracting HIV. The goals of the program are:      
  For Protege or non-profit community-based, faith-based, and women's service          
  organizations to gain skills and be prepared to compete for Federal and private      
  funding before the program period ends; and -- For Protege or non-profit             
  community-based, faith-based, and women's service organizations to increase          
  the number of women at risk for or living with HIV/AIDS served with culturally       


                                                                                  11-08
  competent, gender-focused, evidence-based program services.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A majority of the funds from the award must be used to support staff and efforts
  aimed at implementing the program. Funds may be used for supplies (including
  screening, education, and outreach supplies); local travel to perform duties of the
  funded HIV/AIDS prevention program; and out-of-town travel (required training
  at one national and one regional HIV/AIDS prevention conference). Funds may
  not be used for construction, building alterations, equipment, medical treatment,
  or renovations. All budget requests must be justified fully in terms of the
  proposed goals and objectives and include an itemized computational
  explanation/breakout of how costs were determined.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The applicant must be a non-profit community-based organizations, faith-based
  organizations, national organizations, colleges and universities, clinics and
  hospitals, research institutions, State and local government.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Non-profit community-based, faith-based, and women's service organizations
  serving women will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. The application kit to be made
  available under this notice will contain a listing of States that have chosen to set
  up a review system and will include a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in
  the State for review. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribes)
  should contact their Spots as early as possible to alert them to the prospective
  applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For
  proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to
  contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office on
  Women's Health does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling (240) 453-8822 or writing to: Ms.
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS eGrants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS eGrants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline will be returned without comment.
  Accepted applications will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with
  PHS policies. Applications will be evaluated by a technical review panel
  composed of experts. Funding decisions will be determined by the Director,
  Division for Policy and Program Development, Office on Women's Health and
  will take into consideration the recommendations and ratings of the review
  panel; program needs, stated preferences; geographic location; and
  recommendations of DHHS Regional Women's Health Coordinators.
Deadlines:
  Please contact program office for application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days from the application deadline date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
                                                                                   1389
