  Project period is for 1 year.                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Cost sharing and matching funds is not a requirement of this grant.                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project period not to exceed 2 years.                                              
Reports:                                                                             
  The applicant will submit two progress reports and an annual report detailing the  
  entire funding year of mentoring partnership program activities. OWH will          
  provide Progress Report Form and Annual Report Form during the orientation         
  meeting. A Financial Status Report will also be provided (in accordance with       
  provisions of the general regulations which apply under "Monitoring and            
  Reporting Program Performance,"45 CFR Parts 74 and 92. The purpose of the          
  progress reports is to provide accurate and timely program information to          
  program managers and to respond to Congressional, Departmental, and public         
  requests for information about the program.                                        
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with: the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  30, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are          
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government              
  officials.                                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other        
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer 
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.                           
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  OWH anticipates making four cooperative agreement awards. Approximately            
  $200,000 is available to make four awards of up to $50,000 each. It is expected    
  that the award will cover costs for the 12-month period from September 1, 2006     
  through August 31, 2007. Funding estimates may change.                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Protege grantee be paired with a certified small business or mentors with          
  expertise in designing tailor-made capacity building training for organization     
  infrastructure (fiscal management, human resources, governance); data              
  management and technology development; and gender-focused programmatic             
  development and implementation (including evaluation and monitoring); and          
  women's health, particularly HIV/AIDS prevention services for women at high        
  risk for or living with HIV/AIDS; and have developed a mentoring partnership       
  approach offering protege the opportunity to receive training and gain skills to   
  adapt evidence-based HIV/AIDS prevention curricula to improve program              
  services to women disproportionately impacted by HIV/AIDS.                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the   
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS           
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994); 45 CFR 100 applies.       
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office on Women's Health, Department of Health and Human Services, 200             
  Independence Avenue, SW., Room 712E, Washington, DC 20201.                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.4woman.gov/owh .                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  To receive consideration, applications must be received by the Office of Grants

                                                                                     
  Management, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Department of

                                                                                     
  Health and Human Services (DHHS), no later than June 22, 2006. Application

                                                                                     
  Review Information: the technical review of applications will consider the

                                                                                     
  following factors: Factor 1: Background/Understanding of the Problem (25%);

                                                                                     
  Factor 2: Implementation/Approach (25%); Factor 3: Management Plan (25%);

                                                                                     
  and Factor 4: Indicators of Success (25%).

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.295 INTERGENERATIONAL APPROACHES TO                                               
HIV/AIDS PREVENTION EDUCATION WITH WOMEN                                             
                                                                                     
ACROSS THE LIFESPAN PILOT PROGRAM

                                                                                     
   (Intergenerational)                                                               
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      


1390                                                                           11-08

  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  This program is authorized by 42 U.S.C. 300u-2(a).
OBJECTIVES:
  For African American, Native Aerican/American Indian, Hispanic/Latino, and
  Asian/Pacific Islander women and other female members of the family 12+ years
  old to: know their serostatus; increase their knowledge of HIV/AIDS prevention;
  gain competencies in cross-generational communications about health in general
  and sexual health specifically; and connect with a primary healthcare physician
  (and navigate other systems of care).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A majority of the funds from the award must be used to support staff and efforts
  aimed at implementing the program. Funds may be used for supplies (including
  screening, education, and outreach supplies); local travel to perform duties of the
  funded HIV/AIDS prevention program; and out-of-town travel (required training
  at one national and one regional HIV/AIDS prevention conference). Funds may
  not be used for construction, building alterations, equipment, medical treatment,
  or renovations. All budget requests must be justified fully in terms of the
  proposed goals and objectives and include an itemized computational
  explanation/breakout of how costs were determined.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The applicant must be a non-profit community-based organizations, faith-based
  organizations, national organizations, colleges and universities, clinics and
  hospitals, research institutions, State and local government agencies, tribal
  government agencies and tribal/urban Indian organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Non-profit community-based, faith-based, and women's service organizations
  serving women will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. The application kit to be made
  available under this notice will contain a listing of States that have chosen to set
  up a review system and will include a State Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in
  the State for review. Applicants (other than federally recognized Indian tribes)
  should contact their SPOCs as early as possible to alert them to the prospective
  applications and receive any necessary instructions on the State process. For
  proposed projects serving more than one State, the applicant is advised to
  contact the SPOC of each affected State. The due date for State process
  recommendations is 60 days after the application deadline. The Office on
  Women's Health does not guarantee that it will accommodate or explain its
  responses to State process recommendations received after that date.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling 240-453-8822 or writing to: Ms.
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS eGrants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS eGrants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  Applications will be screened upon receipt. Those that are judged to be
  incomplete or arrive after the deadline will be returned without comment.
  Accepted applications will be reviewed for technical merit in accordance with
  PHS policies. Applications will be evaluated by a technical review panel
  composed of experts. Funding decisions will be determined by the Director,
