  Division for Policy and Program Development, Office on Women's Health and         
  will take into consideration the recommendations and ratings of the review        
  panel; program needs, stated preferences; geographic location; and

  recommendations of DHHS Regional Women's Health Coordinators.                     
Deadlines:

  Please contact program office for application deadline.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 90 days from the application deadline date.                         
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Project period is for 1 year.                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Cost sharing and matching funds is not a requirement of this grant.               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Project period not to exceed 2 years.                                             
Reports:                                                                            
  The applicant will submit two progress reports and an annual report detailing the 
  entire funding year of mentoring partnership program activities. OWH will         
  provide Progress Report Form and Annual Report Form during the orientation        
  meeting. A Financial Status Report will also be provided (in accordance with      
  provisions of the general regulations which apply under "Monitoring and           
  Reporting Program Performance," 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92. The purpose of the        
  progress reports is to provide accurate and timely program information to         
  program managers and to respond to Congressional, Departmental, and public        
  requests for information about the program.                                       
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with: the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  30, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are         
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government             
  officials.                                                                        
Records:                                                                            
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other       
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.                          
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  OWH anticipates making four cooperative agreement awards. Approximately           
  $1,000,000 is available to make four awards of up to $250,000 each. It is         
  expected that the award will cover costs for the period September 1, 2006         
  through August 31, 2007. Funding estimates may change.                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  To teach cross-generations of women how to develop healthy communication          
  patterns built on caring, trusting familial relationships. To equip women to give 
  accurate information about their sexual health issues by incorporating gender-    
  focused, culturally competent, and linguistically-appropriate HIV/AIDS            
  prevention information.                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Specific program requirements are contained in the application instructions, the  
  Federal Register announcement, and the PHS Grants Policy Statement (DHHS          
  Publication No. (OASH) 90-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994); 45 CFR 100 applies.      
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office on Women's Health, Department of Health and Human Services, 200

                                                                                    
  Independence Avenue, SW Room 712E, Washington, DC 20201.

                                                                                    
Web Site Address:

                                                                                    
  http://www.4woman.gov/owh .

                                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  None.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  To receive consideration, the applications must be received by the Office of      
  Grants Management, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Department         
  of Health and Human Services (DHHS), no later than July 31, 2006.                 
  Application Review Information Criteria: The technical review of applications     
  will consider the following (4) factors: Factor 1: Background/Understanding of    
  the Problem (30%), Factor 2: Implementation /Approach (25%), Factor 3:            
  Management Plan (25%), and Factor 4: Evaluation Plan (20%). For specific          
                                                                                    
  details see the full announcement published in the Federal Register.

                                                                                    
                                                                                    


                                                                               11-08
93.296 STATE PARTNERSHIP GRANT PROGRAM TO
IMPROVE MINORITY HEALTH
   (State Partnership Grant Program to Improve Minority Health)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF MINORITY HEALTH, OFFICE OF PUBLIC HEALTH AND
  SCIENCE, OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH
  AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title XVII, Section 1707(e)(1), 42
  U.S.C. 300u et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To facilitate the improvement of minority health and eliminate health disparities
  (adult/child immunization, asthma, cancer, diabetes, heart disease and stroke,
  HIV, infant mortality, and mental health) through the development of
  partnerships with state and territorial offices of minority health.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are to be used to support the development and implementation of
  minority-targeted strategies which will facilitate improvement in minority health
  and address health disparities and gaps. Funds are not to be used for the
  provision of health care treatment, for construction, or to supplant ongoing
  project activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State/Territorial Offices of Minority Health (established through legislation,
  executive order, or a directive process) are eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Members of minority groups: Alaska Natives; American Indians; Asians;
  Blacks/African Americans; Hispanics/Latinos; Native Hawaiians and other
  Pacific Islanders; or subgroups of these.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation to verify official status as a State or Territorial Office of
  Minority Health (e.g., copy of Executive Order, statute, or administrative
  directive) and a signed statement from an authorizing official (e.g.,
  Commissioner of Health or designee in the state/territorial Department of
  Health).
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program does not require preapplication coordination. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernment Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in the State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Requests for the standard Grant Application Form OPHS-1 and instructions for
  submission should be directed to Ms. Karen Campbell, Director, Office of
  Grants Management, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of the
  Secretary, Tower Building, Suite 550, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Rockville,
  Maryland 20852. Telephone: (240) 453-8822. A signed original and two copies
  of the application are to be sent to the above address. Applications are screened
  upon receipt for completeness, responsiveness and conformance to the program
  announcement. Those applications judged to be unacceptable based on this
  initial screening will be returned. Applications may only be submitted
  electronically via the electronic submission mechanisms specified below. Any
  applications submitted via any other means of electronic communication,
  including facsimile or electronic mail, will not be accepted. While applications
  are accepted in hard copy, the use of the electronic application submission
  capabilities provided by the OPHS eGrants system or the Grants.gov Web site
  Portal is encouraged. Information about these systems is available on the OPHS
  eGrants Web site (https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov), the Grants.gov Web site
  (http://www.grants.gov), or may be requested from the OPHS Office of Grants
  Management at (240) 453-8822.
Award Procedure:
  Accepted applications will be reviewed by a review panel that will make
  recommendations on the technical merit based on the published criteria. After
  considering the recommendations of the panel, the Deputy Assistant Secretary
  for Minority Health will make a final decision on funding projects and a notice
  of grant award will be issued.
Deadlines:
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will
  be returned to the applicant unread.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 to 120 days from the application deadline date.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
                                                                                 1391
