Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants can have a project period not to exceed 5 years, with 12 month budget       
  periods. Following the initial budget period, continued funding is subject to the  
  availability of funds and satisfactory program performance. Payments will be       
  made either on a monthly cash request basis or under a letter of credit.           
  Necessary instructions regarding payment procedure will be provided at the time    
  the Notice of Grant Award is issued.                                               
Reports:                                                                             
  Progress reports are required for each budget period, and a final performance      
  report is due 90 days following the end of the project period. Financial status    
  reports are due at the end of each budget period, and a final status report is due 
  90 days following the end of the project period.                                   
Audits:                                                                              
  For State and local governments, audits are to be carried out in accordance with   
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of      
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," or Federal laws and      
  regulations of the programs in which they participate.                             
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other        
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or longer 
  pending completion and resolution of any audit findings.                           
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0120-0-1-551.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,979,018; FY 08 est $4,979,018; and FY 09 est not reported.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $115,324 to $175,000; $149,461.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  45 CFR 74 and 92. Specific program requirements are contained in the Federal       
  Register Notice, the application instructions, and the PHS Grants Policy           
  Statement.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Minority Health, Office of Public Health and Science, Office of the      
  Secretary, Tower Building, Suite 600, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Rockville,             
  Maryland 20852. Telephone: (240) 453-2882.                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.omhrc.gov .                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  The following are examples of activities funded under this program: 1)             
  developing state health disparity plans of action; 2) strengthening capacity to    
  collect, analyze, and report minority health data; 3) improving access to health   
  care by implementing CLAS (Culturally and Linguistically Appropriate Services      
  in Health Care) standards statewide; 4) building the capacity of community         
  coalitions to conduct process and outcome evaluations; and 5) partnering with      
  health professional schools to track progress of minority students to increase the 
  number of minority graduates.                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Complete review criteria are published in the Federal Register Notice or can be    
  obtained from the Program contact. Listed below are some criteria used to          
  review applications: 1) consistency of project's objectives relevant to the        
  Program purpose and the federal Office of Minority Health's mission; 2)            
  coherence and feasibility of methodology and activities selected to address the    
  problem as evidence in the proposed implementation plan; 3) strength of            
  proposed grant organization's management capability; 4) adequacy of                
  qualifications and experience of proposed personnel; and 5) strength of analysis   
  of potential impact or innovation the project proposes to generate.                
                                                                                     
93.300 NATIONAL CENTER FOR HEALTH WORKFORCE                                          
                                                                                     
ANALYSIS                                                                             
   (NCHWA)                                                                           
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public health Service Act, Title VII; Section 761 and General Provisions           
  Sections 791-799; 42 U.S.C. 294n, as amended; Health Professions Education         
  Partnerships Act of 1998; Public Law 105-392.                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide for the development of information describing the health professions    
  workforce and the analysis of workforce-related issues and to provide necessary    
                                                                                     
1392                                                                           11-08

  information for decision-making regarding future directions in health
  professions and nursing programs in response to societal and professional needs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds can be used to provide for targeted information collection and analysis
  activities related to health workforce, research on high priority workforce
  questions, the development of a nonfederal analytic and research infrastructure
  related to health workforce-related issues, and to conduct program evaluation
  and assessment.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Those eligible to apply are: State or local governments, health professions
  schools, schools of nursing, academic health centers, community-based health
  facilities, and other appropriate public or private nonprofit entities, including
  faith based and community based organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Those who will ultimately benefit from these grants are the local, rural, State,
  and Federal legislators and policy makers who will receive the information
  needed with which to make health workforce decisions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from
  Headquarters Office.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 6 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  At the end of the initial project period awardees may submit a competing
  continuation application for an additional 5 years of support.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Some cooperative agreements may require a matching requirement for State and
  local studies.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is available up to 5 years.
Reports:
  A Progress Report must be submitted annually. A financial status report must be
  submitted within 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final progress and
  financial reports must be submitted within 90 days after the end of the project
  period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $50,000 to $400,000; $250,000.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Sarah Richards, Evaluation and Analysis Branch, Office of Workforce
