  Public Health Service Act, Section 846, as amended, Nurse Reinvestment Act of      
  2002, Public Law 107-205.                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To increase the supply of registered nurses (RN) in approved health care           
  facilities with a critical shortage of nurses by providing service-obligated       
  scholarships to nursing students.                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Service-obligated scholarships are awarded to full-time and part-time students of  
  nursing. Scholarships pay tuition and required fees to the school, a monthly       
  stipend to students and a single annual payment to the student to assist with      
  other reasonable educational expenses. Reasonable expenses include books,          
  supplies, equipment, uniforms, travel, for the provision of clinical service, etc. 
  The program requires a one year of service with a minimum 2-year service           
  commitment post graduation. A maximum of four years of educational support         
  may be awarded. Service obligation must be fulfilled at a health care facility     
  with a critical shortage of nurses. These facilities currently include Indian      
  Health Service facilities, Native Hawaiian Health Centers, hospitals, Federally    
  Qualified Health Centers, rural health clinics, nursing homes, skilled nursing     
  facilities, home health agencies, hospice programs, State or local Public Health   
  Departments, and ambulatory surgical centers.                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  The applicant must be a U.S. citizen or national, enrolled or accepted for         
  enrollment in a fully accredited US academic institution with a graduate,          
  baccalaureate, or associate degree or diploma nursing program. The applicant       
  must be free of any Federal judgment liens or service obligation, have not         
  defaulted on a federal debt and have no conflicting service obligations.           
  Financial need is also reviewed as part of the eligibility determination. The      
  applicant must submit an application and a signed contract, agreeing to accept     
  payment of scholarship funds and provide health care services in a health care     
  facility with a critical shortage of nurses for a minimum of two years.            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  United States citizens or nationals enrolled or accepted for enrollment in a fully 
  accredited graduate, baccalaureate, associate degree or diploma nursing            
  program.                                                                           
                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                     
  The applicant must submit an enrollment/acceptance letter from the school or

                                                                                     
  university and proof of US citizenship at the time of application. Applicants

                                                                                     
  must also provide documentation of Expected Family Contribution (EFC). The

                                                                                     
  Department of Education's Student Aid Report (SAR) from the Free Application

                                                                                     
  for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) is also required.

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                     
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

  Applications are generally solicited by a program announcement in the HRSA         
  forecast and application details can be found at www.hrsa.gov . Applications       
  and required forms for this program can also be obtained from the HRSA Call        
  Center at 12530 Parklawn Drive, Suite 350, Rockville, MD 20852 or by calling

  (877) 464-4772 for guidance and instructions. Potential applicants can request     
  email notification on the NSP website when applications become available on-       
  line.

Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The NSP awards are very competitive and the Program anticipates more               
  applicants for scholarship awards than there are funds available. The              
  applications of individuals who meet the eligibility criteria are scored           
  numerically. All applicants will receive a letter about their selection for a      
  scholarship award. Applicants who will be notified of the disposition of their     
  application.                                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                           
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Notification is made within 4-5 months after deadline for receipt of application.  
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Renewal applications are not necessary for students in compliance. Contracts       
  may be multi-year funded through graduation (one to four years) if the applicant   
  signs the contract through the graduation date.                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Each award covers one to four years of educational support, as requested. No       
  awardees may receive more than four years of support.                              
Reports:                                                                             
  The academic institution where the student is enrolled must complete and           
  submit a Verification of Enrollment Form to NSP each semester as a full-time       
  student pursuing the program for which the scholarship was awarded. The            
  employing critical shortage facility must complete and send a semi-annual          
  Employment Certification Form verifying that the participating nurse is            


1394                                                                           11-08

  providing full-time or part-time continuous service as a RN. The certification
  includes a signature by an appropriate official of the facility.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $10,000,000; FY 08 est $14,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $20,000 - $220,000; $55,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The estimate awards for FY 07 is 196 and for FY 08, 257.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Nursing Scholarship Program, Division of Applications and Awards, Bureau of
  Clinician Recruitment and Service (BCRS), Health Resources and Services
  Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Room 8A-55, 5600
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-4829. The HRSA
  Call Center at www.hrsa.gov. or 1 (877)464-4772, Monday through Friday
  (except Federal Holidays).
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management, (301) 443-2728 Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Helen Harpold, Acting Chief of Health Services Branch: (301) 443-3262; John
  Gallicchilo, Branch Chief of Research and Training Branch: (301) 443-3099;
  Dorothy Kelley, Branch Chief of Government and Special Focus Branch: (301)
  443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.288, National Health Service Corps Scholarship Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Scholarships covering tuition, monthly stipends and payments for other
  reasonable education expenses made to nursing students.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Funding preference is defined as the funding of a specified category of group of
  approved applicants ahead of other categories or groups of approved applicants.
  As provided in the amendment in section 846(e) of the Public Health Service
  (PHS) Act, a funding preference is given to eligible applicants with the greatest
  financial need. NSP will use the Department of Education's Student Aid Report
  (SAR) from the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to evaluate
  financial need.
93.307 MINORITY HEALTH AND HEALTH DISPARITIES
RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title III and IV, Part A and Part E, Sections 485E,
  485F, 485G; Public Law 99-158 and Public Law 106-525; 42 U.S.C. 287c-31,
  42 U.S.C. 287c-32, 42 U.S.C. 287c-33, 42 U.S.C. 241 and 285; Small Business
  Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992, Public Law 102-564.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support basic, clinical, social, and behavioral research, promote research
  infrastructure and training; foster emerging programs; disseminate information;
  and reach out to minority and other health disparity communities. The National
  Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities (NCMHD) has established
  programs to pursue these goals: (1) The Centers of Excellence Program promotes
  research to improve minority health, and/or reduce and eliminate health
  disparities, build research capacity for minority health and health disparities
  research in minority-serving and other institutions; encourages the participation
  of health disparity groups and communities in biomedical and behavioral
  research and prevention and intervention activities; and brings together
  investigators from relevant disciplines in a manner that will enhance and extend
  the effectiveness of their research; (2) NCMHD Research Endowment Program:
  builds research capacity and infrastructure at eligible Section 736 health
  professions schools (42 U.S.C. 293) to facilitate minority health and other health
  disparities research to close the disparity gap in the burden of illness and death
  experienced by racial and ethnic minority Americans and other health disparity
  populations; sup promotes a diverse and strong scientific, technological and
  engineering workforce; and emphasizes the recruitment and retention of
  underrepresented minorities and other socio-economically disadvantaged
