  populations in the fields of biomedical, and behavioral research and other areas    
  of the scientific workforce; (3) Health Disparities Research Loan Repayment         
  Program (HDR-LRP): recruits and retains highly qualified health professionals       
  to research careers that focus on minority health or other health disparities       
  issues; (4) Extramural Clinical Research Loan Repayment Program for                 
  Individuals from Disadvantaged Backgrounds (ECR-LRP), also referred to as           
  the Disadvantaged Individuals Loan Repayment Program within this document:          
  recruits and retains highly qualified health professionals from disadvantaged       
  backgrounds to conduct clinical research. This nucleus of clinical investigators    
  has the potential to improve medical care within their respective communities by    
  promoting clinical programs that address the health problems associated with        
  these communities; (5) Research Infrastructure in Minority Institutions (RIMI)      
  Program: assists non-doctoral degree institutions in developing their research      
  infrastructure primarily through collaborations with research-intensive             
  universities thereby enabling the institutions to develop and enhance their         
  capacity and competitiveness to conduct biomedical or behavioral research; (6)      
  Minority Health and Health Disparities International Research Training Program      
  (MHIRT), awards enable U.S. institutions to tailor short-term basic science,        
  biomedical and behavioral mentored student international research training          
  opportunities to address global issues related to understanding, reducing, and      
  eliminating health disparities; (7) Community-Based Participatory Research          
  (CBPR) program: this program supports the development, implementation and           
  evaluation of intervention research using the community-based participatory         
  research (CBPR) principles and methods in targeting diseases of major public        
  health importance in health disparity communities. CBPR awards promote              
  participatory research collaboration between scientific researchers and their       
  community partners. This initiative starts with a three-year research planning      
  grant followed by a competitive fiveyear intervention research grant and            
  conclude with a three-year research dissemination grant. The CBPR initiative        
  engages the community in all phases of the research process and is directed to      
  specific diseases/health conditions in a particular health disparity population. (8)
  Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Program: increases private sector         
  commercialization of                                                                
  innovationsderivedfromFederalresearch and development; encourages small             
  business participation in Federal research and development; and fosters and         
  encourages participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small           
  business concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological          
  innovation; and (9) Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Program: to           
  stimulate and foster scientific and technological innovation through cooperative    
  research development carried out between small business concerns and research       
  institutions; fosters technology transfer between small business concerns and       
  research institutions; increases private sector commercialization of innovations    
  derived from Federal research and development; and fosters and encourages           
  participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small business             
  concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological                   
  innovation.                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants are intended to support the direct costs of a project in accordance with an  
  approved budget, plus appropriate amount for indirect costs. Grantees must          
  agree to administer the grant in accordance with the regulations and policies       
  governing the research grants program of the Public Health Service. Endowment       
  grants: Some qualifying institutions may use income earned from a research          
  endowment corpus to support institutions in their effort to expand and add          
  teaching programs in the biomedical and behavioral sciences and related areas,      
  to improve facilities, to enhance student and faculty recruitment and retention, to 
  develop instructional delivery systems and information technology in areas that     
  will enhance minority health and other health disparities research activities, and  
  to establish endowed chairs and programs. Other qualifying institutions must use    
  income earned from a research endowment corpus to increase the institutions'        
  investments in the recruitment and retention of underrepresented minority           
  students and students from other health disparity populations that matriculate at   
  such institutions. This includes activities such as increasing student recruitment  
  and retention, creating merit-based and need-based scholarships, establishing or    
  enhancing tutoring, providing counseling, and designing student service             
  programs to improve academic success, and faculty recruitment and retention.        
  Health Disparities Loan Repayment and Disadvantaged Individuals Loan                
  Repayment contracts: Contracts provide repayment of existing educational loan       
  debt incurred by health professionals that have agreed to conduct minority health   
  or other health disparities research; or highly qualified health professionals from 
  disadvantaged backgrounds whom plan to conduct clinical research. Health            
  Disparities Loan Repayment and Disadvantaged Individuals Loan Repayment             
  contracts recipients must execute a written contract agreeing to engage in          
  qualified research for a minimum of two years. Contracts may be renewed for a       
  one- or two-year period after the completion of the initial two-year contract,      
  provided that the participant applies for a competitive renewal contract,           
  continues to engage in qualified research, and has eligible repayable debt          
  remaining. Program payments are made directly to the participants' lenders          




                                                                                 11-08
  following each quarter and a verification of satisfactory research service, unless
  otherwise agreed upon by the participant and the Director, NCMHD. SBIR
  grants: SBIR Phase I grants are to establish the technical merit and feasibility of
  a proposed research effort that may lead to a commercial product or process.
  SBIR Phase II grants are for the continuation of the research initiated in Phase I
  and are likely to result in commercial products or processes. Only Phase I
  awardees are eligible to apply for Phase II support. STTR grants: STTR Phase I
  grants are to determine the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and
  feasibility of the proposed cooperative effort that has potential for commercial
  application. STTR Phase II grants are based on results of research initiated in
  Phase I and scientific and technical merit and commercial potential on Phase II
  application. See Program Announcements: PA-07-280 and PA-07-281.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Individuals and public and private institutions, both nonprofit and for-profit,
  who propose to establish, expand, and conduct research, promote or engage in
  research training, and outreach activities that contribute to improving minority
  health and/or eliminating health disparities, Endowment grants: Only Section
  736 health professional schools (see 42 U.S.C. 293) with net endowment assets
  less than or equal to 50 percent of the national average of endowment funds at
  institutions that conduct similar biomedical research or training of health
  professionals are eligible for the research endowment awards. All applicants
  must have a HRSA Centers of Excellence Award at the time of award of an
  NCMHD Research Endowment Grant. Health Disparities Loan Repayment and
  Disadvantaged Individuals Loan Repayment contracts: Qualified health
  professionals that are U.S. citizens, nationals or lawfully admitted for permanent
  residence in the U.S.; have student loan debt equal to or less than 20 percent of
  their institutional based salary; have no Federal judgment liens against their
  property arising from a Federal debt; and owe no obligation of health
  professional service to the Federal government, a State, or other entity unless
  deferrals are granted during the length of their Health Disparities Loan
  Repayment and Disadvantaged Individuals Loan Repayment contracts service
  obligation. SBIR grants: Domestic small businesses (entities that are
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in
  which the research is proposed, and have no more than 500 employees). Primary
  employment (more than one-half time) of the principal investigator must be with
  the small business at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed
  project. Small business concerns must be at least 51 percent US owned by
  individuals and independently operated and/or at least 51 percent owned and
  controlled by another (one) for-profit business concern that is at least 51 percent
  owned and controlled by one or more individuals. The research must be
  performed in the U.S. or its possessions. STTR grants: Domestic small
  businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not
  dominant in the field in which the research is proposed, and have no more than
  500 employees) that "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research
  and development. At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the
  small business concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any non-profit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in
  biomedical and behavioral research. Endowment grants: Section 736
  institutions. Health Disparities Loan Repayment and Disadvantaged Individuals
  Loan Repayment contracts: Qualified health professionals who conduct minority
  health or other health disparities research or highly qualified health professionals
  from disadvantaged backgrounds who will conduct clinical research and who
  possess substantial unpaid educational debt relative to income.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must present a research plan and furnish evidence required for
  research grant applications, PHS 398, (Rev. 05/01) as specified in the
  application form. Costs will be determined in accordance with HHS Regulations
  45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q and OMB Circular No. A-21 for Educational
  Institutions and OMB Circular No. A-87 for state and local governments. For-
  profit organizations' costs are determined in accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the
  Federal Acquisition Regulations. Endowment grants: Requirements for the
  endowment application, PHS 398 (Rev. 05/01) are specified in the application
  form and supplemented by the Invitation to Apply (for limited competition).
  Health Disparities Loan Repayment and Disadvantaged Individuals Loan
  Repayment contracts: Applicants must provide general information, research
  statement, training/mentoring plan, environment description, certification of
  loan status, loan data verification, recommendations, and an institutional
  supporting statement. Requirements for the loan repayment application, OMB
  Approval No. 0925-0361, are specified in the electronic application form located
  at www.lrp.nih.gov. SBIR and STTR grants: Applicant organizations (small
  business concerns) must present a research plan that includes an idea that has
  the potential for commercialization, and furnish evidence that the scientific
  competence, experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested
  are appropriate to carry out the plan. To apply for SBIR Phase I and Phase II
  Grants, applicants must complete SF424 (R&R) Application for Electronic
  Submission. For general information on SF424 (R&R) Application and
  Electronic Submission, see these Web sites: SF424 (R&R) Application and
  Electronic Submission Information:
                                                                                   1395
