  competing-renewal awards in FY 2007. (2) Research Endowments grants:               
  NCMHD funded thirteen awards in FY 2007. (3) Health Disparities Loan               
  Repayment (HDR) contracts: NCMHD funded an anticipated two hundred and             
  seventy-eight for FY 2007. (4)Extramural Clinical Loan Repayment Program for       
  Individuals from Disadvantaged Backgrounds (ECR) contracts: NCMHD funded           
  forty new and renewal awards in FY 2007. (5) RIMI grants: NCMHD funded             
  twenty-two awards in FY 2007. (6) MHIRT grants: NCMHD funded twenty-four           
  awards in FY 2007 and FY 2008. (7) CBPR grants: NCMHD funded twenty-five           
  awards in FY 2007. (8) SBIR and (9) STTR grants: NCMHD funded and co-              
  funded an anticipated nineteen awards in FY 2007.                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Pertinent information is contained in 42 USC 271c-31 et. Seq.; 42 CFR 52; 42       
  CFR 66; 45 CFR 74; 45 CFR 92; NIH Extramural Programs brochure; and                
  miscellaneous program literature from the Headquarters Office. Grants will be      
  available under the authority of and administered in accordance with the NIH       
  Grants Policy Statement and Federal regulations at 42 CFR 52 and 42 USC 241.       
  Additional loan repayment information can be obtained at www.lrp.nih.gov .         
  SBIR and STTR information can also be obtained from the Omnibus Solicitation       
  of the Public Health Service for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)         
  Grant and Cooperative Agreement Applications; and the Omnibus Solicitation         
  of the National Institutes of Health for Small Business Technology Transfer        
  (STTR) Grant Applications.                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:

  Grants: Director, Division of Extramural Activities and Scientific Programs,

  National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities, National Institutes

                                                                                     
  of Health, Department of Health and Human Services, 6707 Democracy                 
  Boulevard, Suite 800, MSC 5465, Bethesda, MD 20892; Telephone: (301) 402-          
  1366. Centers of Excellence Program Director, Office of Scientific

                                                                                     
  Programs(same address and telephone number). Community-Based Participatory

                                                                                     
  Research Program: Chief, Office of Community-based programs (same address

                                                                                     
  and telephone number). Endowment program: Program Director (same address

                                                                                     
  and telephone number). HDR-LRP: Program Director (same address and

                                                                                     
  telephone number). SBIR and STTR programs: Program Coordinator (same

                                                                                     
  address and telephone number). Grants Management Contact: Grants

                                                                                     
  Management Officer (same address and telephone number).

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  http://www.ncmhd.nih.gov. http://www.nih.gov .

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  (1) Centers of Excellence: (a) American Indian and Alaska Health Native Health     
  Disparities Project; (b) A Research Center to Reduce Ethnic Disparities in End     
  Stage Renal Disease; and (c) Appalachian Center of Translational Disparities       
  Research; (d) The Connecticut Center for Eliminating Health Disparities among      
  Latinos; (e) University of North Texas Health Science Center NCMHD Center of       
  Excellence; (f) The NYU Center for the Study of Asian American Health; (g)         
  and the Meharry NCMHD Center of Excellence for Health Disparities. (2)             
                                                                                     
  Endowment program: continuation of the Kansas University Medical Center

                                                                                     
  Endowment Program for Disadvantaged Students. (3)and (4) HDR-LRP and

                                                                                     
  ECR-LRP contracts: (a) Emotional Memory in Early Alzheimer Disease/Stressed

                                                                                     
  Populations; and (b) Obesity Prevention Among Minority Children. (5) RIMI

                                                                                     
  grant: Hispanic Health Disparities Research Center. (6) MHIRT grant: UAB

                                                                                     
  Public Health/Biomedical International Research Program. (7) CBPR grant: (a)

                                                                                     
  Project Grace: A Participatory Approach to Address Health Disparities in

                                                                                     
  HIV/AIDS among African American Populations; (b) Partnership to Overcome

                                                                                     
  Obesity in Hawaii; (c) Partnership for a Hispanic Diabetes Prevention Program;

                                                                                     
  and (d) The Healing of the Canoe: The Community Pulling Together; (8)and(9)

                                                                                     
  SBIR and STTR grants: (a) Sickle Cell Personal Medical Information Card; and

                                                                                     
  (b) An Information Processing Program for High-Risk Parents and (c)

                                                                                     
  healthcare-focused language software.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  The major elements in evaluating all new grant and renewal grant applications

                                                                                     
  include assessments of: the scientific merit and general significance of the

                                                                                     
  proposed study and its objectives; the technical adequacy of the experimental

                                                                                     
  design and approach; the competency of the proposed investigator or group to

                                                                                     
  successfully pursue the project; the adequacy of the available and proposed

                                                                                     
  facilities and resources; and the necessity of the budget components requested in

                                                                                     
  relation to the proposed project, and the relevance and importance to the

                                                                                     
  announced program objectives. HDR-LRP contracts: Applicants must be

                                                                                     
  recommended for funding by the Special Emphasis Panel after a review of the

                                                                                     
  applications based on: the appropriateness of the applicant's previous training

                                                                                     
  and experience to prepare him/her for a career in health disparities research; the

                                                                                     
  suitability of the applicant's proposed research activities in the two-year loan

                                                                                     
  repayment period to foster a research career in health disparities; the assessment

                                                                                     
  of the applicant's commitment to a research career in health disparities as

                                                                                     
  reflected by the personal statement and the plan outlined to achieve those goals;

                                                                                     
  the strength of recommendations attesting to the applicant's potential for a

                                                                                     
  research career; the availability of appropriate scientific colleagues to achieve



                                                                               11-08 
  and/or enhance the applicant's research independence; and the quality and
  appropriateness of institutional resources and facilities. SBIR and STTR grants:
  For Phase I grant applications, the criteria used are: the soundness and technical
  merit of the proposed approach; the qualifications of the proposed principal
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; the technological innovation of
  the proposed research; the potential of the proposed suitability of the facilities
  and research environment; and where applicable, the adequacy of assurances
  detailing the proposed means for safeguarding human or animal subjects and/or
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. For
  Phase II grant applications, the criteria used are: the degree to which the Phase I
  objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; the scientific and technical
  merit of the proposed approach for achieving the phase II objectives; the
  qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff and
  consultants; the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance of
  the proposed research; the potential of the proposed research for commercial
  application; the reasonableness of the budget requested for the work proposed;
  the adequacy and suitability o the facilities and research environment; and where
  applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for
  safeguarding human or animal subjects and/or protecting against or minimizing
  any adverse effect on the environment. All persons interested in any of the
  DHHS/NIH/NCMHD grant and/or contract program initiatives are strongly
  encouraged to carefully read the Request for Applications as they are announced
  annually in order to understand what is required for each unique program as well
  as meet each deadline in a timely manner.
93.308 EXTRAMURAL LOAN REPAYMENT FOR
INDIVIDUALS FROM DISADVANTAGED BACKGROUNDS
CONDUCTING CLINICAL RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act; Title IV, Subtitle D, Part G, Section 487E, as
  amended; Public Law 106-554; 42 U.S.C. 288-5.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage the recruitment and retention of qualified health professionals
  from disadvantaged backgrounds to conduct clinical research. Clinical research
  consists of patient-oriented clinical research conducted with human subjects, or
  research on the causes and consequences of disease in human populations
  involving material of human origin (such as tissue specimens and cognitive
  phenomena) for which the investigator or colleague directly interacts with
  human subjects in an outpatient or inpatient setting to clarify a problem in
  human physiology, pathophysiology or disease, or epidemiologic or behavioral
  studies, outcomes research or health services research, or developing new
  technologies, therapeutic interventions, or clinical trials.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To provide repayment of existing educational loan debt incurred by health
  professionals from disadvantaged backgrounds engaged in clinical research.
  Recipients must execute a written contract agreeing to engage in such research
  for a minimum of two years. The Secretary of the Department of Health and
  Human Services, or the Secretary's designee, may grant extension contracts for a
  one-year or two-year period after the completion of the initial two-year contract,
  provided that the participant applies for an extension, continues to engage in
  qualified research, and there is sufficient repayable debt remaining.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An applicant must: (1) be a United States citizen, national, or permanent
  resident; (2) have an M.D., Ph.D., Pharm.D., D.D.S., D.M.D., D.C., N.D., or
  equivalent doctoral degree from an accredited institution; (3) come from a
  disadvantaged background; (4) conduct research that is supported by a non-
  profit institution, foundation, professional society or U.S. government entity, (4)
  commit 50 percent or more of his/her time to clinical research; (5) have total
  qualifying educational debt greater than or equal to 20 percent of his/her
  institutional base salary at the time of award; (7) conduct research in accordance
  with applicable Federal, state and local law; (8) not be under any existing service
  obligations to Federal, State, or other entities, unless and until the existing
  service obligation is discharged or deferred during the period of program
  service; (9) not have Federal judgment liens against their property arising from a
  Federal debt from receiving Federal funds until all judgments have been paid in
  full or otherwise satisfied; (10) not be a full-time employee of a Federal
  government agency. Part-time Federal employees who engage in qualifying
  research as part of their non-Federal duties are eligible to apply for loan
  repayment if they meet all other eligibility requirements; and (11) have the
  institution provide an assurance that the applicant will be provided research
  support for two years, that the applicant will engage in qualified clinical research
  for 50 percent of his/her time, that the funding foundation, professional society,
  or institution is considered to be non-profit pursuant to Section 501 of the
                                                                                   1397
