  Internal Revenue Code or is a U.S. government entity, and certify the applicant's   
  annual institutional base salary.                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Qualified health professionals from a disadvantaged background who conduct          
  clinical research and who possess substantial unpaid educational debt relative to   
  income will benefit from this program.                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  An applicant must submit the following documentation electronically: (1)            
  Applicant Information Statement; (2) Biosketch; (3) Personal Statement, which       
  includes a discussion of career goals and academic objectives; (4) Description of   
  Research Activities; (5) Contact Information of Three Recommenders; (6)             
  Contact Information of Institution Official able to serve as the Institutional      
  Contact; (7) On-line Certification; (8) Loan Information; (9) Notice of             
  Grant/Award (or PHS 2271 for T32 recipients), if applying based on NIH              
  support; and (10) Certification of Disadvantaged Background. The Research           
  supervisor or mentor must electronically submit the following: (1)                  
  Recommendation; (2) Biosketch; (3) Assessment of the Research Activities            
  Statement submitted by the applicant; (4) Description of the Research               
  Environment; and (5) Training or Mentoring Plan. Recommenders must submit           
  their recommendations electronically. Institutional Contacts must electronically    
  submit a certification that: (1) assures the applicant will be provided the         
  necessary time and resources to engage in the research project for two years from   
  the date a Loan Repayment Program Contract is executed; (2) assures that the        
  applicant is or will be engaged in qualifying research for 50 percent of his/her    
  time, i.e., not less than 20 hours per week; (3) certifies that the funding         
  foundation, professional society, or institution is considered to be non-profit as  
  provided under Section 501 of the Internal Revenue Code (26 U.S.C. 501) or is a     
  U.S. government entity (Federal, state or local); and (4) provides the applicant's  
  institutional base salary.                                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  An application for participation in the program can be obtained from                
  www.lrp.nih.gov and should be submitted to the NIH office, which is                 
  responsible for the receipt of applications, in such form and manner as the         
  Secretary or the authorized designee may prescribe.                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  All eligible and completed applications will be forwarded to the Special            
  Emphasis Panel (SEP) for review. Awards will be made to those applications          
  approved by the SEP, subject to the receipt of an appropriation and/or allocation   
  of funds from the United States Congress, the NIH and/or NCMHD. All                 
  selections are subject to final approval by the Secretary or the authorized         
  designee.                                                                           
Deadlines:

  Contact the National Center on Minority Health and Health Disparities listed        
  below for application deadlines or visit the website located at www.lrp.nih.gov .

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  The approximate time for approval/disapproval is 6-8 months.                        
Appeals:                                                                              
  Applicants may question the substantive or procedural aspects of the review of      
  their application by communicating with NCMHD staff. A description of the           
  NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available on the NIH home page                 
  http://grants2.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not97-232.html .                   
Renewals:                                                                             
  After the completion of the initial two-year contract, participants may apply for a 
  one-year or two-year extension provided the participant continues to engage in      
  qualified clinical research and has outstanding repayable debt remaining.           
  Applications submitted for an extension are reviewed and selected for funding       
  on a competitive basis.                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  An initial contract provides assistance for a two-year period, and an extension     
  contract provides assistance for a one-year or two-year period. Program             
  payments will be made directly to lenders following each quarter of the             
  participant's satisfactory service, unless otherwise agreed upon by the participant 
  and Secretary or authorized designee.                                               
Reports:                                                                              
  Participants must be periodically certified to have satisfactorily performed the    
  duties of their positions.                                                          
Audits:                                                                               
  Not applicable. This program has no statutory audit requirements.                   
Records:                                                                              
  The NCMHD will retain applicant records for three years after rejection and         
  participant records for six years after completion of final service obligation.     
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0897-0-1-552.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $1,562,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            


1398                                                                            11-08

  The total dollar assistance for FY 05 for the 2-year contract period ranged from
  $4,252.03 up to $106,057 in loan repayments, and from ~$3,000 up to ~$28,000
  in tax reimbursements. The average dollar assistance of awards made in FY 02
  was ~$45,000 in loan repayments and ~$18,000 in tax reimbursements.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is anticipated that NCMHD will make 35 awards for fiscal year 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Pertinent information is contained in Public Law 106-554; Section 487E of the
  Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 288-5).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program and Business Contact: Dr. Francisco Sy, National Center on Minority
  Health and Health Disparities, Loan Repayment Program, 6707 Democracy
  Boulevard, Suite 800, MSC 5465, Bethesda, MD 20892-5465. Telephone
  Number: (301) 402-1366. Fax: (301) 480-4049. Email: SyF@ncmhd.nih.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ncmhd.nih.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.162, National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program; 93.209,
  Contraception and Infertility Research Loan Repayment Program; 93.923,
  Disadvantaged Health Professions Faculty Loan Repayment (FLRP) and
  Minority Faculty Fellowship Program (MFFP); 93.936, National Institutes of
  Health Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome Research Loan Repayment
  Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  HIV-specific T-helper and CTL responses in viral vertically infected children;
  Evaluations of immunologic correlates of human papiloma virus infection and
  disease progression; Treatment in children with congenital heart disease; Oral
  disease and prevention amongst urban elderly populations; Psoriasis phenotype
  and atopic dermatitis; Genetic epidemiology and pathophysiological
  mechanisms of dyspepsia; Antiresorptive therapy for osteopenia associated with
  chronically immobilized children and adults with neuromuscular disease;
  Examining for the presence of local hypoxia in chondrosarcoma as a potential
  mechanism; Cognitive remediation program for childhood cancer survivors.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The major elements in evaluating applications/proposals include the assessment
  of the following: (1) personal statement; (2) proposed research project and its
  scientific merit (priority will be given to biomedical and behavioral researchers);
  (3) training plan and environment (which includes the research program, the
  facilities/environment, the mentor/advisor's training, the applicant's training); (4)
  loan debt ratio and any associated impediments that may affect the applicant's
  decision to pursue a research career; and (5) references.
93.310 TRANS-NIH RESEARCH SUPPORT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title IV, Section 301, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide support for new initiatives designed to address major opportunities
  and gaps in biomedical research that no single NIH institute could address alone,
  but which the agency as a whole can pursue to stimulate the progress of
  biomedical research and to catalyze changes that will serve to transform new
  scientific knowledge into tangible benefits for public health. Information on
  recent and current initiatives is available at http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/and at
  http://opasi.nih.gov .
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To support research and other projects that will accelerate fundamental
  biomedical discovery and translation of that knowledge into effective prevention
  strategies and new treatments.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Awards can be made to domestic, public or private, for-profit or nonprofit
  organization, university, college, hospital, laboratory, or other institution,
  including State and local units of government, and individuals. Some initiatives
  will accept applications from foreign organizations. Additional details on
  eligibility are specified in the Roadmap Grants and Funding Opportunities
  funding announcement, listed at http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/grants/index.asp .
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Institutions as described above.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications must be submitted in compliance with instructions provided with
  each initiative.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
