  Prepare and submit applications according to instructions provided in the         
  applicable Roadmap Grants and Funding Opportunities announcement, located         
  at http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/grants/index.asp . This program is subject to the    
  provisions of 45 CFR 74 including applicable federal cost principles as           
  referenced, the NIH Grants Policy Statement (rev. 11/2003), and the provisions    
  in the funding announcement. NIH is transitioning to an electronic application    
  by grant mechanism. Details, including the appropriate application form, can be   
  found at http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt/.                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications are reviewed for scientific and technical merit by a scientific      
  review group and for program relevance by a national advisory council/board.      
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Application deadlines are specified in the Roadmap Grants and Funding             
  Opportunities funding announcement, listed at                                     
  http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/grants/index.asp .                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  The length of the review cycle is four to nine months.

Appeals:                                                                            
  A principal investigator may question the substantive or procedural aspects of

  the review of his/her application by communicating with the NIH                   
  Scientific/Research contact, as provided on an initiative. A description of the   
  NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available on the NIH Web site at

                                                                                    
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not97-232.html .

Renewals:

                                                                                    
  Renewal (competing continuation, type 2) applications to Roadmap programs

                                                                                    
  are not accepted unless specifically accepted by NIH staff.

                                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.

                                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                    
  Almost all awards are made for at least one year, with additional support (up to

                                                                                    
  four more years) depending on the recommendation of the scientific review

                                                                                    
  group, the national advisory council, successful annual performance, and

                                                                                    
  availability of funds.

                                                                                    
Reports:

                                                                                    
  Annual progress reports and selected financial reports are required for

                                                                                    
  continuing projects. Final progress reports, invention statements, and

                                                                                    
  expenditure reports are required at the end of the projects.

                                                                                    
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                    
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                    
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                    
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                    
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are

                                                                                    
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government

                                                                                    
  officials.

                                                                                    
Records:

                                                                                    
  Expenditures and other financial records, and also administrative records, must

                                                                                    
  be retained for 3 years from the day on which the grantee submits the last

                                                                                    
  expenditure report for the grant period.

                                                                                    
Account Identification:

                                                                                    
  75-0846-0-1-552.

                                                                                    
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $353,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not           
  reported.                                                                         
                                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $2,300 to $3,800,000; $620,000.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  IN FY 2004 and FY 2005, awards were made to support research projects that        
  accelerate fundamental discovery and translation of that knowledge into           
  effective prevention strategies and new treatments that will lead to better health
  for U.S. citizens. Lists of the awards that were made are available on the NIH    
  Roadmap web site, at http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/grants/fundedresearch.asp.         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  45 CFR 74; 42 CFR 52. NIH Grants Policy Statement, (Rev.) December 1, 2003.       
  The PHS 398 may be obtained from NIH's Extramural Research Home Page:             
  http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/oer.htm.                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Financial or Grants Management contact as provided on the initiative, or          
  Director, Office of Policy for Extramural Research Administration (OPERA),        
  OER, NIH for award policy or application issues: 301-435-0938.                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Scientific/Research contact as provided on an initiative or Program Director,     
  Office of Extramural Programs (OEP) for questions on program administration,      
  301-435-2690. Dr. Lisa Colpe, Acting Assistant Director for Roadmap               
  Coordination, Office of the Director, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,    
  MD 20892; 301-402-7617.                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/                                                        


                                                                               11-08
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  FY 2004 was the first year of the Roadmap program. Awards were made for
  health-related research projects that pertain to the mission of the Roadmap.
  Lists of the awards made in FY 2004 and FY 2005 are available at
  http://nihroadmap.nih.gov/grants/fundedresearch.asp.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Funding decisions are based on scientific merit (42 CFR 52h) and program
  relevance. Scientific merit review encompasses: the peer review criteria detailed
  in the specific funding announcement, as well as the significance, approach, and
  innovation of the proposed research; the competency of the principal
  investigator; the adequacy of the resources and environment; the proposed
  budget and requested period of support; and, where applicable, the adequacy of
  the measures for protecting against adverse effects upon humans, animals, or the
  environment.
93.342 HEALTH PROFESSIONS STUDENT LOANS,
INCLUDING PRIMARY CARE LOANS/LOANS FOR
DISADVANTAGED STUDENTS
   (HPSL/PCL/LDS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Part C, Section 721-735, 42 U.S.C. 292q-
  292y; Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-
  392.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase educational opportunities by providing long-term, low-interest loans
  to students in need of financial assistance and in pursuit of a course of study in
  an approved health discipline.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds on deposit can only be used for loans to eligible students pursuing a full-
  time course of study. The maximum amount a student may borrow is cost of
  attendance (including tuition, other reasonable educational expenses and
  reasonable living expenses). Third and fourth year medical and osteopathic
  medicine students may be eligible for additional funding to repay earlier higher-
  interest educational loans. The interest rate is 5 percent. Effective July 1, 1993,
  to be eligible for a Primary Care Loan (PCL), students of allopathic medicine
  and osteopathic medicine must meet financial need criteria and agree to enter
  and complete a residency training program in primary health care not later then
  4 years after the date on which the student graduates from such school. The
  PCL borrower must also practice primary health care until the loan is repaid in
  full. To be eligible for Loans for Disadvantaged Students (LDS) students must
  meet the HPSL criteria and also be from a disadvantaged background as defined
  by the Secretary. A school must be carrying out a program for recruiting and
  retaining students from disadvantaged backgrounds, including racial and ethnic
  minorities and carrying out a program for recruiting and retaining minority
  faculty to be eligible for LDS funds. In addition, the school must agree to ensure
  that adequate instruction regarding minority health issues is in the curricula of
  the school. Health clinics must provide services to a significant number of
  individuals who are from disadvantaged backgrounds, including members of
  minority groups and enter into arrangements with one or more such clinics for
  the purpose of providing students of the school with experience in clinical
  services to such individuals. Secondary educational institutions and
  undergraduate institutions of higher education, to must enter into arrangements
  with one or more such institutions for the purpose of carrying out programs
  regarding the educational preparation of disadvantaged students, including
  minority students, to enter the health professions and recruit such individuals
  into the health professions. These institutions should also establish a mentor
  program for assisting disadvantaged students, including minority students,
  toward completion of the educational requirements for degrees from the school.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any accredited public or other nonprofit private school of medicine, dentistry,
  osteopathic medicine, optometry, podiatry, pharmacy, or veterinary medicine
  which provides a course of study leading to a degree of Doctor of Medicine or
  Doctor of Osteopathic Medicine for PCL borrowers, Doctor of Dentistry (or an
  equivalent degree), Doctor of Optometry (or an equivalent degree), Doctor of
  Podiatric Medicine (or an equivalent degree), Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy
  (or an equivalent degree), Doctor of Pharmacy (or an equivalent degree), or
  Doctor of Veterinary Medicine (or an equivalent degree) for HPSL and LDS
  borrowers. Additionally, the school must be located in the United States, the
  District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Mariana Islands,
  the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific
                                                                                   1399
