  Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the         
  Federated State of Micronesia.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  A student applicant must have financial need and be enrolled; or accepted for        
  enrollment in a school, as mentioned above; and pursuing a full-time course of       
  study leading to a degree as specified above. A student applicant must be a          
  citizen, national or lawful permanent resident of the United States, the District of 
  Columbia, the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico, the Mariana Islands, the Virgin          
  Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the       
  Republic of Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, or the Federated State      
  of Micronesia.                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued               
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be       
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from          
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find      
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be    
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                   
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health              
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final             
  selections for awards.                                                               
Award Procedure:

  When Federal Capital Contribution funds are available for re-distribution, a         
  Notice of Award is sent to the School's Contact Person notifying the school of

  the amount of Federal funds allocated for loans prior to the beginning of the

                                                                                       
  academic year in which the award is to be utilized. Students are then notified by    
  the school's financial aid office of approval or disapproval of loans at times       
  determined by schools.                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                             
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 2 months.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Applications are required only for new schools.                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Allotment of funds is based on statutory formula which takes into account the        
  ratio each school's enrollment bears to the enrollments of all schools making        
  application for funds but never in excess of request of school. Under the Federal    
  Capital Contribution method, a school must match Federal Capital Contribution        
  with an amount equal to one-ninth of the funds drawn down.                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The time required by a student to complete the necessary course of study leading     
  to a degree and subject to the availability of funds.                                
Reports:                                                                               
  "Annual Operating Report" through electronic submission at                           
  http://bhpr.hrsa.gov/dsa.                                                            
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of          
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going             
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely    
  resolved.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Federal Capital Contribution) FY 07 $22,928,940; FY 08 est $13,453,724$;            
  and FY 09 est $25,000,000.                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $1,122,616 to $3,311 for FY 07; Average: $241,357 per institution (for FY 07)        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                       
  In fiscal year 2007 support was provided to 13,817 students.

                                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                       
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and

                                                                                       
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,

                                                                                       
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as

                                                                                       
  applicable.

                                                                                       


1400                                                                             11-08

Regional or Local Office:
  Jim Essel, Division of Health Careers Diversity and DevelopmentStudent Loans
  and Scholarships, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services
  Administration, , Department of Health and Human Services, Parklawn
  Building, Room 8-429-105, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857.
  Telephone: (301) 443-4776.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: 301-443-2385; Research and Training Branch: 301-
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: 301-443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  http://bhpr.hrsa.gov/dsa .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.038, Federal Perkins Loan Program_Federal Capital Contributions.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  PCL: (1) Long-term low-interest loans made to students of Allopathic Medicine,
  Osteopathic Medicine. HPSL/LDS: Long-term, low-interest loans made to
  students of Dentistry, Pharmacy, Optometry, Podiatric Medicine; and Veterinary
  Medicine; and (2) funds provided to Health Professions Schools to capitalize
  loan funds. LDS: First awards were made in September 1991.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be reviewed for completeness, accuracy, and to determine if
  applicant schools meet minimum program requirements.
93.358 ADVANCED EDUCATION NURSING
TRAINEESHIPS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VIII, Section 811, 42 U.S.C. 296j, as amended;
  Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.
OBJECTIVES:
  Grants are awarded to eligible institutions to provide financial support through
  traineeships for registered nurses enrolled in advanced education nursing
  programs to prepare nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists, nurse
  midwives, nurse anesthetists, nurse administrators, nurse educators, public
  health nurses and nurses in other specialties determined by the Secretary to
  require advanced education.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds can only be used to pay all or part of the costs of tuition, books, and fees
  of the program of advanced nurse education, and reasonable living expenses of
  the individual during the period for which the traineeship is provided. No more
  than 10 percent of the traineeship funds may be obligated for individuals in
  doctoral degree programs. In direct costs and trainee travel are not allowed.
  Maximum period of support is limited to 36 months of full or part-time study for
  each graduate student. Nurse anesthetist students are only eligible for traineeship
  support during their first year.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are collegiate schools of nursing, academic health centers,
  and other private or public nonprofit entities accredited by a recognized body or
  bodies or State agency, approved for the purpose of nursing education by the
  Secretary of Education.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The participating institutions select traineeship recipients. A candidate must be
  enrolled in an advanced education nursing program for preparation as a nurse
  practitioner, nurse-midwife, nurse anesthetist, clinical nurse specialist, public
  health nurse, nurse administrator, nurse educator, or other nurse specialty
  determined by the Secretary to require advanced education. The candidate must
  be pursing a master's or doctoral degree, a combined RN to master's degree,
  nurse-midwifery certificate in existence on November 12, 1998, or a post-
  nursing master's certificate. The candidate must be a citizen of the United States,
  non-citizen national, or foreign national who possesses a visa permitting
  permanent residence in the United States.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
