  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health           
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final          
  selections for awards.                                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Notification is made in writing through a Notice of Grant Award issued from the   
  Headquarters Office.                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                          
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 2 to 3 months after receipt of application.                         
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Applications must be submitted annually.                                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Project periods are for (1) year.                                                 
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual financial status reports.

                                                                                    
Audits:

                                                                                    
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                    
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                    
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                    
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                    
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                    
Records:

                                                                                    
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of

                                                                                    
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-

                                                                                    
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going

                                                                                    
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely

                                                                                    
  resolved.

                                                                                    
Account Identification:

  75-0350-0-1-551.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $16,000,000; FY 08 $16,000,000; and FY 09 est. $16,000,000.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  FY 08: Range is $1,829 to $303,094; Average is $50,633.                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  For 2007, 347 awards were made; for 2008, 316 awards were made; and for           
  2009, 340 estimated awards will be made.                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and  
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,       
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as         
  applicable.                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Ms. Karen Breeden, Division of Nursing, Bureau of Health Professions, Health      
  Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and Human             
  Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 8-C26, Parklawn Building, Rockville, MD         
  20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6333.                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants              
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,              
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.          
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)       
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                    
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Funded projects provide financial support to nursing students enrolled full-time  
  or part-time in a nursing education program to cover the costs of tuition and     
  fees, books and reasonable living allowance.                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Eligible applicants must meet all applicable Federal guidelines and/or graduates  
  must be eligible for national nursing organization certification, and/or programs 
  must meet other national organizational guidelines, as appropriate, in the nursing
  field of study.                                                                   
                                                                                    
93.359 NURSE EDUCATION, PRACTICE AND RETENTION                                      
                                                                                    
GRANTS                                                                              
  (NEPR)and Faculty Development: Integrated Technology into Nursing                 
  Education and Practice Initiative (Faculty Development: ITNEP).                   
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
                                                                                    


                                                                               11-08
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VIII, Section 831, 42 U.S.C. 296p, as amended;
  Nurse Reinvestment Act of 2002, Public Law 107-205.
OBJECTIVES:
  Grants are awarded to eligible applicant organizations for projects to strengthen
  and enhance the capacity for nurse education, practice and retention to address
  the nursing shortage. There are three major priority areas (Education, Practice
  and Retention) and nine purposes associated with the three priority areas.
  Applicants must select and focus on one of these nine purposes in the grant
  application. The education priority areas are: Purpose E1) expanding enrollment
  in baccalaureate nursing programs; Purpose E2) developing and implementing
  internship and residency programs to encourage mentoring and the development
  of specialties; Purpose E3) providing education in new technologies, including
  distance learning methodologies. The practice priority areas are: Purpose P1)
  establishing or expanding nursing practice arrangements in non-institutional
  settings to demonstrate methods to improve access to primary health care in
  medically underserved communities; Purpose P2) providing care for underserved
  populations and other high-risk groups such as the elderly, individuals with
  HIV/AIDS, substance abusers, the homeless, and victims of domestic violence;
  Purpose P3) providing managed care, quality improvement, and other skills
  needed to practice in existing and emerging organized health care systems;
  Purpose P4) developing cultural competencies among nurses. The retention
  priority areas are: Purpose R1) career ladder bridge programs which promote
  career advancement for nursing personnel and registered nurses and; Purpose
  R2) enhancing patient care delivery systems through improving the retention of
  nurses and enhancing patient care. Faculty Development: Integrated Technology
  into Nursing Education and Practice Initiative (Faculty Development: ITNEP).
  The Health Resources and Services Administrations (HRSA) Bureau of Health
  Professions (BHPr), in partnership with the Office of Health Information
  Technology (OHIT), will administer the ITNEP. The purpose of this initiative is
  to provide support to nursing collaboratives for faculty development in the use of
  information and other technologies in order to expand the capacity of collegiate
  schools of nursing to educate students for 21st century health care practice.
  Nursing collaboratives will use healthcare information systems to enhance
  nursing education and practice, optimize patient safety, and drive improvements
  in health care quality. For this initiative, use of information and other
  technologies in nursing education and practice, includes, but is not limited to,
  informatics, telehealth, mannequin-based and patient simulators, computer-
  based instructions, virtual simulation, interactive simulated case studies,
  advanced 3D graphics, e-Learning technology, and other simulated or virtual
  methods to enhance nursing education and practice. Since no institution or
  organization currently offers the full spectrum of information and other
  technologies necessary to carry out this initiative, the nursing collaboratives
  must develop linkages and partnerships to undertake this initiative.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for salaries of personnel specifically employed for the
  project; consultant fees; supplies and equipment necessary to conduct the
  project; essential travel expenses and student stipends or scholarships; and other
  expenses related to the project. Restricted Uses: Indirect costs are allowed for
  administrative costs incurred as a result of the project, limited to 8 percent of
  direct costs exclusive of equipment and tuition and fees.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are: accredited schools of nursing, health care facilities, or a
  partnership of such a school and a health care facility, nursing centers, academic
  health centers, State or local governments, an Indian Tribe or Tribal
  organization, other public or private non-profit entities including faith-based and
  community organizations, and for-profit entities capable of carrying out the
  legislative purpose. For the E1 purpose that focuses on expanding enrollment in
  baccalaureate nursing programs, the only eligible applicant organizations are
  collegiate accredited school of nursing. Schools of nursing must be accredited by
  the National League for Nursing Accrediting Commission, Inc. (NLNAC),
  Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (CCNE), and Department of
  Education deemed State Agencies to be considered eligible applicants. ITNEP:
  Eligible applicants are collegiate schools of nursing capable of carrying out the
  initiative's purposes. Eligible applicants must provide evidence that they have
  the capacity and infrastructure in place to carry out the program goals and
  objectives. Eligible applicants must provide a formal written agreement (See
  Program Definitions) demonstrating a collaboration with one or more academic
  health centers, schools of nursing, accredited public or private institutions of
  higher learning, or other public or private entities capable of carrying out the
  program goals and objectives. The roles and responsibilities of the collective
  partnership and of each partner must be clearly delineated.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Accredited public and nonprofit private schools of nursing and other public or
  nonprofit private entities.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                   1401
