  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued              
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from         
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be   
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                  
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health             
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final            
  selections for awards.                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award.                         
Deadlines:                                                                            
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 6 months after receipt of applications.                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Competing continuation applications may be submitted for continuance of a           
  grant beyond the initial project period. A competing continuation application       
  shall be submitted during the beginning of the third year of the initial project    
  period. The submission date is the same for new applications and competing          
  continuation applications. These applications are reviewed in the same manner       
  and at the same time as new competing applications.                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Competing and competing continuation grant applications are submitted for           
  three (3) years of support, except for the following two legislative purposes: (1)  
  establishing or expanding nurse practice arrangements and (2) enhancing patient     
  care delivery systems which are for five years of support.                          
Reports:                                                                              
  A Uniform Progress Report (UPR) and Comprehensive Performance                       
  Management System (CPMS) Report must be submitted annually. A Financial             
  Status Report (FSR) must be submitted within 90 days after the end of each          
  budget period. Final progress and financial reports must be submitted within 90     
  days after the end of the project period.                                           
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                     
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000

  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit

  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a       
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,    
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                              
Records:                                                                              
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of         
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-    
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going            
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely   
  resolved.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $35,343,422; FY 08 $34,562,453; and FY 09 est $34,000,000. ITNEP:             
  FY 07 $1,200,000 (2 competing and 2 non-competing awards); FY 08 est                
  $1,800,000 (2 competing and 4 non-competing awards); and FY 09 est                  
  $2,400,000 (2 new competing and 6 non-competing awards).                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $14,780 - $564,280; $250,000. ITNEP: $295,000.                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Program provides support to strengthen capacity for nurse education and             
  practice under three priority areas: Education, Practice and Retention. Program     
  supports academic, service and continuing education projects to strengthen the      
  nursing workforce and improve nurse retention and quality of patient care. In       
  FY07, 95 non-competing continuations and 39 new awards will be issued. It is        
  estimated that 91 non-competing continuations and 28 new awards will be             
  issued in FY08. ITNEP: In FY 07, 2 new projects and 2 non-competing                 
  continuation projects were funded. In FY 08 2 new projects and 4 non-               
  competing continuation projects were funded. In FY 09 projected 2 new               
  projects and 6 non competing continuation projects.                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and    
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,         
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as           
  applicable.                                                                         


1402                                                                            11-08

Regional or Local Office:
  Dr. Janice Young, CAPT Catherine Rupinta and CDR Daniel Reed, Division of
  Nursing, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services
  Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane,
  Room 9-36, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6193. ITNEP: Capt.
  Young Song, Sr. Program Management Officer, Division of Nursing, Bureau of
  Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department
  of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane Room 8C-26, Rockville, MD
   20857, 301-443-6333, Fax: 301-443-0791.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch; Telephone: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training
  Branch; Telephone: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch;
  Telephone: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The focus of the funded projects is to strengthen and enhance the capacity for
  nurse education, practice and retention to address the nursing shortage by:
  expanding enrollment in baccalaureate nursing programs; developing and
  implementing internship and residency programs; providing education in new
  technologies, including distance learning methodologies; establishing or
  expanding nursing practice arrangements; providing care for underserved
  populations and other high-risk groups; providing managed care, quality
  improvement, and other skills needed to practice in existing and emerging
  organized health care systems; developing cultural competencies among nurses;
  creating career ladder bridge programs which promote career advancement for
  registered nurses and nursing personnel; and enhancing patient care delivery
  systems through improving the retention of nurses and enhancing patient care.
  ITNEP: Duke University, Board of Regents of University of Wisconsin System,
  and University of Pittsburg.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The purpose of the project must be consistent with and promote the activities
  identified in the law. Need must be documented, and the capability for achieving
  project goals must be described. In making awards of grants under this section,
  preference will be given to any qualified applicant with a project that will
  substantially benefit rural or underserved populations, or help meet public health
  nursing needs in State in local health departments. This preference will only be
  applied to applications that rank above the 20th percentile of applications
  recommended for approval.
93.361 NURSING RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301, 483, 484, and 487, as amended, Public
  Law 99-158; Small Business Research and Development Act of 1992, Public
  Law 102-564.
OBJECTIVES:
  The National Institute of Nursing Research supports and conducts clinical and
  basic research and research training on health and illness across the lifespan.
  The research focus encompasses health promotion and disease prevention,
  quality of life, health disparities, and end-of-life. NINR seeks of extend nursing
  science by integrating the biological and behavioral sciences, employing new
  technologies to research questions, improving research methods, and developing
  the scientists of the future. NINR accomplishes its mission through research on
  preventing, delaying the onset, and slowing the progression of disease and
  disability. This includes (a) finding effective approaches to achieving and
  sustaining a healthy lifestyle and preventing diseases and disability; (b)
  improving the quality of life for patients, families, and informal caregivers by
  enhancing the individual's role in managing disease and disability, relieving
  symptoms, and improving outcomes; (c) eliminating health disparities, including
  disparities based on race/ethnicity, gender, socio-economic status, geography,
  cultural factors, and disability, and (d) addressing issues at the end of life,
  improving palliative care, enhancing the quality of life for the dying patient, and
  supporting family and informal caregivers. These efforts are crucial in
  translating scientific advances into cost- effective health care that does not
  compromise quality. NINR accomplishes its mission by supporting grants to
  universities and other research organizations as well as by conducting research
  intramural at laboratories in Bethesda, Maryland. The research fosters
  interdisciplinary collaborations to ensure a comprehensive approach to research
  on illness and disabling conditions. This approach is especially relevant in
  research aimed at developing interventions that address the needs of diverse
  populations across the life span, adapting and generating new technologies,
