  integrating biological and behavioral science, improving methods for future        
  scientific discoveries. In addition, the Institute supports comprehensive research 
  training programs to prepare individuals with requisite interdisciplinary skills to
  conduct nursing research. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program:       
  NINR seeks to expand and improve the SBIR program; to increase private sector      
  commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and                 
  development; to increase small business participation in Federal research and      
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and             
  economically disadvantaged mall business concerns and women-owned small            
  business concerns in technological innovation Small Business Technology            
  Transfer (STTR) program: Through this program, NINR seeks to stimulate and         
  foster scientific and technological innovation through cooperative research and    
  development carried out between small business concerns and research               
  institutions; to foster technology transfer between small business concerns and    
  research institutions; to increase private sector commercialization of innovations 
  derived from Federal research and development; and to foster and encourage         
  participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small business            
  concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological                  
  innovation. Centers Program: To promote interdisciplinary research, offer an       
  environment for research training and career development, and concentrate          
  research through Centers for Nursing Research.                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Research Grants: Funds may be used for salaries, consultation, equipment, travel   
  and other usual costs, subject to Federal regulations applicable to the grant.     
  National Research Service Awards (NRSAs) (Individual): Individual awards are       
  made to institutions on behalf of the individual for research training in specified
  areas related to the mission of NINR. NRSAs (Institutional): Grants may be         
  made to institutions to enable them to accept individuals for research training.   
  Each individual who receives a NRSA postdoctoral fellowship on an NRSA             
  award must comply with all applicable service and payback provisions. SBIR         
  Phase I grants: (of approximately 6-months' duration) are to establish the         
  technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a   
  commercial product or process. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to apply for     
  Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to         
  determine the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the   
  proposed cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase   
  II funding is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and 
  technical merit and commercial potential of Phase II application.                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Research Grants: Any corporation, public or private institution or agency, or      
  other legal entity, either nonprofit or for-profit, may apply. NRSAs (Individual): 
  An applicant must be a registered professional nurse with either a baccalaureate   
  and/or a master's degree in nursing or a related field and must be a citizen of the
  United States or lawfully admitted for permanent residence. Those on temporary     
  or student visas are not eligible. NRSAs (Institutional): An eligible institution  
  must be capable of providing predoctoral and/or postdoctoral research training     
  opportunities for nurses. SBIR grants: can be awarded only to domestic small       
  businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit; are not 
  dominant in the field in which research is being proposed; and have no more        
  than 500 employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of the           
  principal investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and    
  during the conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the      
  research must be performed in the United States or its possessions. To be eligible 
  for funding, a grant application must be reviewed for scientific merit and         
  program relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council.    
  STTR grants can be awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities      
  that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the      
  field in which research is proposed and have no more than 500 employees)           
  which "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and            
  development. At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small    
  business concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both      
  Phase I and Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its           
  possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for  
  scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific review group and a          
  national advisory council.                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Individuals and public or private institutions.                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Each applicant for research projects must present a research plan and furnish      
  evidence that scientific competence, facilities, equipment, and supplies are       
  appropriate to carry out the plan. NRSAs (Individual): The applicant's academic    
  record, research experience, citizenship, licensure as a registered nurse, and     
  institutional sponsorship should be documented in the application. NRSAs           
  (Institutional): The applicant organization must show the objectives,              
  methodology and resources for the research training program, the qualifications    
  and experience of directing staff, the criteria to be used in selecting individuals
  for awards, and detailed budget justification for the amount of grant funds        
  requested. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-21,          


                                                                                11-08
  Cost Principles for Educational Institutions and OMB Circular A-87 for State
  and local governments. For-profit organizations' costs are determined in
  accordance with 48 CFR Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations.
  For other grantees, costs will be determined by HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part
  74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and STTR grants, applicant organization (small
  business concern) must present in a research plan an idea that has potential for
  commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific competence,
  experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested are appropriate
  to carry out the plan. The SF 424 (Research and Research-Related) application
  forms and the SF 424 SBIR/STTR Application Guide are used to apply for both
  SBIR and STTR, Phase I and Phase II. Application is made electronically
  through Grants.gov (http://www.grants.gov).
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Research Grants: Applications must be prepared either electronically through
  Grants.gov (http://www.grants.gov) using the SF 424 (Research and Research-
  Related) or on paper using the PHS 398 research grant application instructions
  and forms (rev. 4/2006). The PHS 398 is available at
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html. The format is
  interactive. For assistance contact GrantsInfo, Telephone (301) 435- 0714,
  Email: GrantsInfo@nih.gov. NRSAs (Individual): Individuals must submit the
  application form, PHS Individual National Research Service Award (PHS 416-1,
  rev. 10/05), and include at least three letters of reference. If the applicant has
  been lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence, the
  appropriate item should be checked on the Face Page of the application.
  Applicants who have applied for and have not yet been granted admission as a
  permanent resident should check the Permanent resident block on the Face Page
  of the PHS 416-1 application, and also write in the word "pending." A notarized
  statement documenting legal admission for permanent residence must be
  submitted prior to the issuance of an award. SBIR and STTR: The SF 424
  (Research and Research-Related) application forms and the SF 424 SBIR/STTR
  Application Guide are used to apply for both SBIR and STTR grants, Phase I
  and Phase II. Application must be made electronically through grants.gov
  (http://www.grants.gov). For further assistance contact GrantsInfo, Telephone:
  (301) 435-0714, E-mail: GrantsInfo@nih.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Research Grants and NRSAs (Institutional): All accepted applications are
  reviewed for scientific merit by an appropriate initial review group and then by a
  national advisory council. (Individual NRSA applications are not reviewed by
  council.) All applications favorably recommended compete for available funds
  on the basis of scientific merit and mission/program relevance. All accepted
  SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an
  appropriate scientific peer review panel and by a national advisory council. All
  applications receiving a priority score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-
  aside funds on the basis of scientific and technical merit and commercial
  potential of the proposed research, mission/program relevance, and program
  balance among the areas of research.
Deadlines:
  Research Grants: New R01 -- February 5, June 5, and October 5; Renewal R01 -
  - March 5, July 5, and November 5. New R03, R21 -- February 16, June 16,
  October 16; Resubmission R03, R21 -- March 16, July 16, November 16. New
  and Resubmission R15 --February 25, June 25, October 25: Individual NRSAs:
  April 8, August 8, and December 8. Institutional NRSA's: May 25 only. SBIR
  and STTR: April 5, August 5, and December 5. AIDS-Related grants: May 7,
  September 7, and January 7. For details on submission dates, see the following
  website: http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/funding/submissionschedule.htm.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Research Grants: From 6 to 9 months. NRSAs: From 6 to 9 months.
  SBIR/STTR: About 7-1/2 months. AIDS Grants: About 6 months.
Appeals:
  Research Grants: A principal investigator may question the substantive or
  procedural aspects of the review of his/her application by communicating with
  the staff of the NINR.
Renewals:
  Research Grants: Renewal applications are accepted. NRSAs: Awards may be
  made for 1 to 5 years. No individual may receive more than 5 years of aggregate
  NRSA support beyond the predoctoral level, and no individual may receive
  NRSA support for more than 3 years of support beyond the postdoctoral level.
  Institutional awards may be renewed.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Research Grants: Awards are usually made annually with no project periods to
  exceed 5 years in length. NRSAs: Institutional awards may be made for up to 5
  years, and Individual awards may be made for up to 5 years at the predoctoral
  level, 3 years at postdoctoral level, and 2 years at senior level. SBIR: Normally,
  Phase I awards are for 6 months; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years.
  STTR: Normally, Phase I awards are for 1 year; normally, Phase II awards are
  for 2 years.
                                                                                 1403
