Reports:                                                                             
  Progress reports and financial status reports where applicable are required        
  annually for continuing projects. Final reports including the financial status     
  report on all projects are required within 90 days after their conclusion.         
  Recipients of NRSAs are required to file termination reports to ascertain          
  compliance with the service and payback provisions.                                
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,         
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"         
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject to   
  inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.                         
Records:                                                                             
  Records must be retained for 3 years or longer if not audited or audit findings    
  have not been resolved.                                                            
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0889-0-1-552.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Research Grants) FY 07 $110,914,000; FY 08 est $110,967,000; and FY 09 est        
  $110,840,000. (National Research Service Awards (NRSA) FY 07                       
  $10,088,000; FY 08 est $10,088,000; and FY 09 est $10,154,000.                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  (Research Grants) $3,000 to $717,109; $337,000. (NRSAs) Individual Awards          
  $3,778 to $55,152; $33,000. Institutional Awards $46,352 to $481,559;              
  $314,000.                                                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  For fiscal year 2007, 329 research grants were awarded. For FY 2007, 92 NRSA       
  Individual FTTPs were awarded and 154 NRSA Institutional FTTPs were                
  awarded.                                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Research Grants: Grants will be available under the authority of and               
  administered in accordance with the NIH Grants Policy Statement and Federal        
  regulations at 42 CFR 52 and 42 USC 241; Omnibus Solicitation of the Public        
  Health Service for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant and             
  Cooperative Agreement Applications. Omnibus Solicitation of the National           
  Institutes of Health for Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Grant           
  Applications.                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Program areas are as follows: Chronic conditions and infectious diseases,          
  including health issues of individuals with arthritis, diabetes, urinary           
  incontinence, digestive disorders, and musculoskeletal disorders; Health           
  behavior and minority health, including studies of health disparities, women's     
  health, men's health, and health and risk behaviors research; Cardiopulmonary      
  and critical care science, including research on responses to acute cardiovascular 
  events, chronic management of cardiovascular disease, and responses to acute       
  and chronic pulmonary conditions such as COPD, asthma, and other non-              
  infection-caused conditions; Neuroscience, including research on symptom           
  management and/or prevention of cognitive deficits, neurological conditions,       
  and informal caregiving for persons with these conditions; HIV/AIDS and            
  oncology, including symptom management, self-management, and caregiving of         
  patients with cancer, HIV/AIDS, and immune disorders; Reproductive, child,         
  and family health, including reproduction and child bearing issues, infant         
  development and illness, child and adolescent health promotion and risk            
  reduction, and family health; End of life and long term care, including clinical   
  management of physical and psychological symptoms, communication, ethics           
  and clinical decision-making, caregiver support, and care delivery issues at the   
  end of life. Program Contact is Dr. Yvonne Bryan, Acting Chief, Office of          
  Extramural Programs. Address: National Institute of Nursing Research,              
  National Institutes of Health, Room 710, One Democracy Plaza, 6701                 
  Democracy Blvd., Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 594- 6906. Grants            
  Management Contact is Mr. Brian Albertini, Grants Management Officer,              
  National Institute of Nursing Research, National Institutes of Health, Room 710,   
  One Democracy Plaza, 6701 Democracy Blvd., Bethesda, MD 20892.                     
  Telephone: (301) 594-6869. Use the same numbers for FTS.                           
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.nih.gov/ninr.

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                     
  93.226, Research on Healthcare Costs, Quality and Outcomes; 93.242, Mental

                                                                                     
  Health Research Grants; 93.359, Nurse Education, Practice and Retention

                                                                                     
  Grants; 93.399, Cancer Control; 93.866, Aging Research.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                     
  (1) Reducing Environmental Risk to Rural Low Income Families; (2) Genetics,

                                                                                     
  Environment and Weight Gain Post-transplant; (3) Preterm Birth:

                                                                                     
  Psychoneuroimmunology in Hispanics; (4) Pain Rehabilitation: Patient Centered

                                                                                     
  Outcomes; (5) Mother-Administered Interventions for VLBW Infants; (6)



1404                                                                           11-08

  Mitochrondrial Genetics of Recovery After Brain Injury; (7) Estrogen and
  Testosterone in Experimental Stroke; (8) Family-to-Family: Psychoeducation to
  Improve Children's Outcomes in HIV+ Families; (9) Improving patient outcomes
  in end-of-life care provided by physicians and nurses.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1)
  Significance: Does this study address an important problem? If the aims of the
  application are achieved, how will scientific knowledge or clinical practice be
  advanced? What will be the effect of these studies on the concepts, methods,
  technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this
  field? (2) Approach: Are the conceptual framework, design, methods, and
  analyses adequately developed, well-integrated, well-reasoned, and appropriate
  to the aims of the project? Does the applicant acknowledge potential problem
  areas and consider alternative tactics? For applications designating multiple PIs,
  is the leadership approach, including the designated roles and responsibilities,
  governance, and organizational structure, consistent with and justified by the
  aims of the project and the expertise of each of the PIs? (3) Innovation: Is the
  project original and innovative? Does the project challenge existing paradigms
  or clinical practice; address an innovative hypothesis or critical barrier to
  progress in the field? Does the project develop or employ novel concepts,
  approaches or methodologies, tools, or technologies for this area? (4)
  Investigators: Are the PD/PIs and other key personnel appropriately trained and
  well suited to carry out this work? Is the work proposed appropriate to the
  experience level(s) of the principal investigator(s) and other researchers? Do the
  PD/PIs and investigative team bring complementary and integrated expertise to
  the project (if applicable)? (5) Environment: Do(es) the scientific
  environment(s) in which the work will be done contribute to the probability of
  success? Do the proposed studies benefit from unique features of the scientific
  environment(s), or subject populations, or employ useful collaborative
  arrangements? Is there evidence of institutional support? In addition to the
  above criteria, the following items will continue to be considered in the
  determination of scientific merit and the priority score: Resubmission
  Applications (formerly revised/amended applications): Are the responses to
  comments from the previous scientific review group adequate? Are the
  improvements in the resubmission application appropriate? Protection of Human
  Subjects from Research Risk: The involvement of human subjects and
  protections from research risk relating to their participation in the proposed
  research will be assessed. Inclusion of Women, Minorities and Children in
  Research: The adequacy of plans to include subjects from both genders, all racial
  and ethnic groups (and subgroups), and children as appropriate for the scientific
  goals of the research will be assessed. Plans for the recruitment and retention of
  subjects will also be evaluated. Care and Use of Vertebrate Animals in Research:
  If vertebrate animals are to be used in the project, the adequacy of the plans for
  care and use of vertebrate animals to be used in the project will be assessed.
  Biohazards: If materials or procedures are proposed that are potentially
  hazardous to research personnel and/or the environment, determine if the
  proposed protection is adequate. Applications compete for available funds with
  all other recommended applications. The following will be considered in making
  funding decisions: Scientific merit of the proposed project as determined by peer
  review; Availability of funds; Relevance of program priorities. The following
  criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical merit of all
  SBIR/STTR grant applications: Significance: Does the proposed project have
  commercial potential to lead to a marketable product, process or service? Does
  this study address an important problem? What may be the anticipated
  commercial and societal benefits that may be derived from the proposed
  research? If the aims of the application are achieved, how will scientific
  knowledge orclinicalpracticebe
  advanced? What will be the effect of these studies on the concepts, methods,
  technologies, treatments, services, or preventative interventions that drive this
  field? Does the application lead to enabling technologies (e.g., instrumentation,
  software) for further discoveries? Will the technology have a competitive
  advantage over existing/alternate technologies that can meet the market needs?
  Approach: Are the conceptual or clinical framework, design, methods, and
  analyses adequately developed, well-integrated, well-reasoned, and appropriate
  to the aims of the project? Is the proposed plan a sound approach for
  establishing technical and commercial feasibility? Are the milestones and
  evaluation procedures appropriate? Does the applicant acknowledge potential
  problem areas and consider alternative tactics? For applications designating
  multiple PDs/PIs, is the leadership approach, including the designated roles and
  responsibilities, governance, and organizational structure, consistent with and
  justified by the aims of the project and the expertise of each of the PDs/PIs?
  Innovation: Is the project original and innovative? For example: Does the project
  challenge existing paradigms or clinical practice; address an innovative
  hypothesis or critical barrier to progress in the field? Does the project develop or
  employ novel concepts, approaches, methodologies, tools, or technologies for
  this area? Investigator(s): Are the PD/PI(s) and other key personnel
  appropriately trained and well suited to carry out this work? Is the work
  proposed appropriate to the experience level of the PD/PI(s) and other
  researchers, including consultants and subcontractors (if any)? Do the PD/PIs
