  and investigative team bring complementary and integrated expertise to the          
  project (if applicable)? Are the relationships of the key personnel to the small    
  business and to other institutions appropriate for the work proposed?               
  Environment: Do(es) the scientific and technological environment in which the       
  work will be done contribute to the probability of success? Do the proposed         
  studies benefit from unique features of the scientific environment, or subject      
  populations, or employ useful collaborative arrangements? Is there evidence of      
  institutional support? Is there sufficient access to resources (e.g., equipment,    
  facilities)? In addition to the above criteria, Phase II grant applications will be 
  reviewed based upon the following criteria: 1. How well did the applicant           
  demonstrate progress toward meeting the Phase I objectives, demonstrating           
  feasibility, and providing a solid foundation for the proposed Phase II activity?   
  2. Did the applicant submit a concise Commercialization Plan that adequately        
  addresses the specific areas described in the SF424 (R&R) SBIR/STTR                 
  Application Guide and the SBIR/STTR Information component? 3. Does the              
  project carry a high degree of commercial potential, as described in the            
  Commercialization Plan? In addition to the above criteria, the following items      
  will continue to be considered in the determination of scientific merit and the     
  priority score: Resubmission Applications: Are the responses to comments from       
  the previous scientific review group adequate? Are the improvements in the          
  resubmission application appropriate? Protection of Human Subjects from             
  Research Risk: The involvement of human subjects and protections from               
  research risk relating to their participation in the proposed research will be      
  assessed. Inclusion of Women, Minorities and Children in Research: The              
  adequacy of plans to include subjects from both genders, all racial and ethnic      
                                                                                      
  groups (and subgroups), and children as appropriate for the scientific goals of

                                                                                      
  the research will be assessed. Plans for the recruitment and retention of subjects

                                                                                      
  will also be evaluated. Care and Use of Vertebrate Animals in Research: If

                                                                                      
  vertebrate animals are to be used in the project, the adequacy of the plans for

                                                                                      
  their care and use will be assessed. Biohazards: Ifmaterials orproedures

                                                                                      
  areproposed that are potentially hazardous to research personnel and/or the

                                                                                      
  environment, determine if the proposed protection is adequate. SBIR/STTR

                                                                                      
  applications compete for available funds with all other recommended

                                                                                      
  SBIR/STTR applications. The following will be considered in making funding

                                                                                      
  decisions: Scientific and technical merit of the proposed project as determined

                                                                                      
  by peer review; Availability of funds; Relevance of the proposed project to         
  program priorities.                                                                 
                                                                                      
93.364 NURSING STUDENT LOANS                                                          
                                                                                      
   (NSL)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                      
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,

                                                                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  Public Health Service Act, Title VIII, Section 835-842, 42 U.S.C. 297a-i, as

                                                                                      
  amended; Health Professions Education Partnership Act of 1998, Public Law

                                                                                      
  105-392.

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                      
  To increase educational opportunities by providing long-term, low-interest loans

                                                                                      
  to students in need of financial assistance and in pursuit of a course of study in

                                                                                      
  an approved health discipline.

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Loans.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The maximum amount a student may borrow is $2,500 for an academic year for          
  each of the first two years, $4,000 for each of the final 2 years, or the amount of 
  the student's financial need, whichever is less. The total is limited to $13,000.   
  Loans to full and half-time nursing students who are citizens, nationals, lawful    
  permanent residents of the United States, the District of Columbia, the             
  Commonwealths of Puerto Rico, the Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam,        
  the American Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Republic of     
  Palau, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Federated States of            
  Micronesia. Funds are made to schools of nursing to capitalize loan.                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  All accredited public and nonprofit private schools of nursing that prepare         
  students for practice as registered or graduate nurses, and that do not             
  discriminate against students because of race, color, origin, sex, or handicapping  
  conditions, are eligible to apply for funds to be disbursed to qualified nursing    
  students.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  The Nursing Student Loan Program provides financial assistance to nursing           
  students who are citizens, nationals or lawful permanent residents of the United    
  States or the District of Columbia, the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico or the         
  Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the American Samoa or the Trust          
  Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Republic of the        
  Marshall Islands, and the Federated State of Micronesia.                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued              
                                                                                 11-08
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  The Notice of Award is sent to the School's Contact Person notifying the school
  of the amount of Federal funds allocated for loans prior to the beginning of the
  academic year in which the award is to be utilized. Student is notified by
  student aid office of approval or disapproval at times determined by schools.
Deadlines:
  Students should contact the schools financial aid office for application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 3 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Applications are required for new schools.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Schools participating in loan programs must match the Federal contribution with
  an amount not less than one-ninth of the Federal allotment.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Length and time of assistance depends upon the time required by the student to
  complete the necessary course of study leading to a degree and is subject to
  availability of funds.
Reports:
  "Annual Operating Report" through electronic submission at
  http://bhpr.hrsa.gov/dsa.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $2,122,268; FY 08 est $1,562,835; and FY 09 est $2,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $1,274 to $112,767 (FY 07 Actual).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Awards were made to 79 nursing schools in FY 07.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Tyson Nakashima, Division of Health Careers Diversity and Development,
  Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, Parklawn
  Building, Room 9-105, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:
  (301) 443-4776. Use same number for FTS.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  84.038, Federal Perkins Loan Program_Federal Capital Contributions; 84.063,
  Federal Pell Grant Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Long-term, low-interest loans made to nursing students; and (2) funds
                                                                                 1405
