  provided to schools of nursing to capitalize loan funds.                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applications will be reviewed for completeness and accuracy, and to determine       
  if applicant schools meet minimum program requirements.                             
                                                                                      
93.365 SICKLE CELL TREATMENT DEMONSTRATION                                            
                                                                                      
PROGRAM                                                                               
   (SCTDP)                                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Section 712(c) of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, Public Law 103-357.       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To support demonstration projects for the development and establishment of          
  systemic mechanisms and partnerships to enhance the prevention and treatment        
  of sickle cell disease (SCD) through coordination of service delivery, genetic      
  counseling and testing, bundling of technical services, training of health          
  professionals, and patient and provider education.                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  All funds granted should be expended solely for carrying out the approved           
  projects in accordance with Section 712 of the Public Law 103-357.                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible entities include, Federally-qualified health center, as defined in section 
  1905(10(2)(B) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396d(10(2)(B), nonprofit       
  hospital or clinic, or university health center that provides primary health care,  
  that: (1) has a collaborative agreement with a community-based Sickle Cell          
  Disease organization or a nonprofit entity with experience in working with          
  individuals who have Sickle Cell Disease; and (2) demonstrates that either the      
  Federally-qualified health center, the nonprofit hospital or clinic, the university 
  health center, the community-based Sickle Cell Disease organization or the          
  Sickle Cell Disease experts who serve as consultants to the project have at least   
  5 years of experience in working with individuals who have Sickle Cell Disease.     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Projects will benefit individuals with Sickle Cell Disease and health               
  professionals who provide care for individuals with Sickle Cell Disease.            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued              
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from         
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be   
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                  
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Maternal and       
  Child. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for   
  awards.                                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Project applications are reviewed by a review committee of experts and persons      
  with SCD or their family members who are generally nongovernmental.                 
  Applications are reviewed based on their merit, and are ranked according to the     
  priority score the committee has assigned. Final decisions regarding funding are    
  made by the Associate Administrator for Maternal and Child Health.                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Final decisions are made approximately 2-3 months after receipt of applications.

Appeals:                                                                              
  None.

Renewals:                                                                             
  After initial award, projects may be renewed annually up to the limit of the

  project period upon the submission and approval of a satisfactory continuation      
  application.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Awards are made on an annual basis for the duration of the grant period, and        
  payments are made through an Electronic Transfer System or Cash Demand              
  System.                                                                             
Reports:                                                                              
  Annual program reports, annual financial status reports, annual program service     
  reports and special reports as required.                                            
Audits:                                                                               


1406                                                                            11-08

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations,"nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,278,832; FY 08 est $1,469,216; and FY 09 est $1,205,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $318,832 to $320,000; $319,708.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Four regional Sickle Cell Disease Collaborative Networks (Networks) were
  funded in FY 2006, the first year of the program. The coordinating center, along
  with the four grantees and a steering committee are developing the project plan
  as a means of completing a report to Congress that includes: 1) the identification
  of a model protocol for implementing the recommendations of Congress
  regarding changes that should be made in health care and health education to
  persons with sickle cell disease, as well as in methods of screening for persons
  having the disease or are carriers; 2) the procedures for implementing this
  protocol at the four grantee sites; and 3) the set of methods for evaluating the
  degree of success that each grantee has attained and the overall effectiveness of
  the SCDTDP. Support is provide through on-going technical assistance,
  information exchange; materials review and development; collection,
  coordination, and distribution of program data, best practices, and findings and
  sustaining partnerships.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Program Office: Michele A. Lloyd-Puryear, MD, PhD, Genetic Services Branch,
  Division of Services for Children with Special Health Needs, Maternal and
  Child Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, Room 18A-19, 5600 Fishers Lane,
  Rockville, MD 20857; Telephone: (301) 443-1080.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.110, Maternal and Child Health Federal Consolidated Programs.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  University of Cincinnati, Ohio Medical Center: Christian Community Health
  Centers, Chicago, Illinois: Stedman-Wade Health Services Inc. in Wade, North
  Carolina; and Health Services Inc. in Montgomery, Alabama.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  General criteria are described in Program Regulations 45 CFR 51, and specific
  criteria are included in the program guidance materials provided with
  application kits.
93.389 NATIONAL CENTER FOR RESEARCH RESOURCES
   (DBT, DCRR, DCM, DRI)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Titles III and IV, Sections 301, 479, 480, and 487 as
  amended, Public Laws 78-410 and 99-158, 42 U.S.C. 241, 287, 287a, and 288,
  as amended; Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of
  1992, Public Law 102-564.
OBJECTIVES:
  The National Center for Research Resources (NCRR) provides laboratory
  scientists and clinical researchers with the environments and tools they need to
  understand, detect, treat, and prevent a wide range of diseases. This support
