  enables discoveries that begin at a molecular and cellular level, move to animal-   
  based studies, and then are translated to patient-oriented clinical research,       
  resulting in cures and treatments for both common and rare diseases. NCRR           
  connects researchers with one another and with patients and communities across      
  the nation to harness the power of shared resources and research.                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The Division of Biomedical Technology supports research, development and            
  access to sophisticated technologies at resource centers nationwide which assist    
  academic, nonprofit organizations in the development, use, and dissemination of     
  innovative technologies useful for the advancement of biomedical science.           
  Awards are provided under a variety of funding mechanisms composed of               
  Biomedical Technology Resource(BTR) grants, Research Project Grants, Shared         
  Instrumentation Grants (SIG), High End Instrumentation (HEI) Program and            
  other mechanisms, such as Exploratory Grants to develop new technologies for        
  biomedical research, Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) grants, and          
  Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) grants. The Division for Clinical         
  Research Resources makes it possible to apply knowledge gained through basic        
  research to the development of lifesaving drugs, devices, and therapies that        
  protect the health of our nation's citizens by providing research infrastructure for
  clinical investigators. These specialized institutional resources are equipped to   
  be flexible and responsive to changing scientific and economic environments         
  and to unforeseen research challenges. The Division for Clinical Research           
  Resources helps translate scientific knowledge into effective patient care through  
  General Clinical Research Centers (GCRC), Research Career Development               
  (K23, K24), Clinical Research Curriculum Award (CRCA, K30), Mentored                
  Clinical Research Scholar (CRS) Program (K12), National Gene Vector                 
  Laboratories (NGVL), Clinical Research-related activities, Small Business           
  Innovation Research (SBIR) grants and Small Business Technology Transfer            
  (STTR) grants; and improves pre-college science education and the public's          
  understanding of science through the Science Education Partnership Award            
  (SEPA) Program. Additionally, a new consortium, funded through Clinical and         
  Translational Science Awards (CTSAs), will transform how clinical and               
  translational research is conducted, ultimately enabling researchers to provide     
  new treatments more efficiently and quickly to patients. The Division of            
  Comparative Medicine supports research and resource projects, as well as            
  centers that enable biomedical scientists to use high quality, disease-free animals 
  effectively in research on human health problems. Support is also available for     
  the development of a wide range of other research models, particularly marine       
  invertebrates and lower vertebrates, and access to an array of important            
  biological materials. These objectives are accomplished through activities of       
  National Primate Research Centers (NPRC), Laboratory Animal Science (LAS),          
  and Biological Models and Materials Research (BMMR). The Division of                
  Research Infrastructure addresses the under representation of minority              
  investigators; enhances the research environment at minority colleges and           
  universities in the health sciences; broadens the geographic distribution of        
  research grant funding to states with historically low NIH success rates; and       
  improves biomedical research facilities through matching grants for construction    
  and renovation. These objectives are accomplished through activities of the         
  Research Centers in Minority Institutions (RCMI) program, the RCMI Clinical         
  Research Infrastructure Initiative (RCRII), the Institutional Developmental         
  Award (IDeA), the Research Facilities Improvement Program (RFIP), and the           
  Animal Facilities Improvement program.                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  BTR Grants: Nonprofit health professional schools; other academic institutions;     
  hospitals; State and local health agencies; and research organizations with         
  programs in biomedical technology research located in the United States and its     
  territories. SIG and HEI awards will be made to institutions only, not to           
  individuals. GCRC and CTSA grants: schools, research hospitals, and other           
  institutions capable of carrying out well-designed studies in any preclinical or    
  clinical science involving human beings as research subjects in conjunction with    
  investigators funded through the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and other      
  Federal agencies. Research Career Development: Applications may be                  
  submitted on behalf of candidates by domestic, nonfederal organizations, public     
  or private institutions of higher education. Clinical Research Scholar Program      
  Award: Applications will be accepted from domestic, nonprofit organizations,        
  public and private institutions of higher education that have strong, well-         
  established clinical research and training program. SEPA: Public and private for-   
  profit and nonprofit institutions and museums. DCM: Institutions of higher          
  education, hospitals, and other institutions and organizations, both nonprofit and  
  for-profit, seeking to establish, continue, or enlarge programs consistent with     
  the objectives of the program. Applicants for NRSA must be citizens of the          
  United States or be admitted to the United States for permanent residency.          
  Applicants must be nominated and sponsored by a public or private nonprofit         
  institution with staff and facilities suitable for the proposed research training.  
  Nonprofit domestic organizations may apply for the institutional NRSA. RCMI:        
  Institutions with more than 50 percent minority enrollment that award an M.D.,      
  D.D.S., D.V.M., or other doctoral degree in the health professions and/or a Ph.D.   
  in the health-related sciences. This program is open only to institutions within    


                                                                                 11-08
  the United States and its territories. RCRII: RCMI eligible institutions affiliated
  with medical schools. IDeA: Domestic public and private for profit and
  nonprofit institutions in States in which the success rate for applications to the
  NIH has been historically low. RFIP and Animal Facilities Improvement: Except
  where otherwise prohibited by law, any nonprofit organization competent to
  carry out biomedical research.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Biomedical investigators at any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or
  institution engaged in biomedical research.
Credentials/Documentation:
  SIG, HEI: A major user group of three or more investigators should be
  identified. Each major user must have NIH peer-reviewed research support at
  the time of the award. The application must show a clear need for the
  instrumentation by projects supported by multiple NIH research awards and
  demonstrate that these projects will require at least 75 percent of the total usage
  of the instrument. Applications for NRSA must be citizens of the United States
  or be admitted to the United States for permanent residency. Applicants must be
  nominated and sponsored by a public or private nonprofit institution with staff
  and facilities suitable for the proposed research training. Nonprofit domestic
  organizations may apply for the institution NRSA. RCMI, RCRII, and CCRE:
  Applicants must certify eligibility (see Applicant Eligibility requirements).
  IDeA, and Animal Facilities Improvement: None. RFIP: Application should
  include a complete research program description (with staff curricula vitae),
  space requirements for projected program, an environmental summary of the
  impact of the proposed facility as detailed in Public Law 90-190, The National
  Environmental Policy Act, and listing of all relevant licenses, permits or other
  approvals required by State and local authorities. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-122, "Cost Principles for Nonprofit
  Organizations," and in the case of SIG & HEI No. A-87 for State and local
  governments or A-21 for Educational Institutions, and HHS Regulations 45
  CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q.
Preapplication Coordination:
  All programs not applicable, except RFIP. Program staff is available for
  consultation. Programs are excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. RFIP:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR 92
  for State and local governments, must be used for this program. An
  environmental impact statement and assessment is required for this program.
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. l2372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires when applying for assistance, if the State has
  selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application forms may be obtained from the Division of Extramural Outreach
  and Information, 6701 Rockledge Drive, MSC 7910, Bethesda, MD 20892-
  7910. Telephone (301) 435-0714, e-mail: ASKNIH@odrockml.od.nih.gov .
  Completed applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific Review,
  6701 Rockledge Drive, MSC 7710, Bethesda, MD 20892-7710. The standard
  application forms PHS 398, (Rev. November 1998), as furnished by PHS and
  required by 45 CFR, Part 92, and OMB Circular No. A-110 must be used for all
  programs. For filing NRSA individual fellowship award applications, Form 416-
  1 (Rev. October 1991) is needed. GCRC: Special instructions for preparing
  applications should be requested from the Division for Clinical Research
  Resources, One Democracy Plaza, 6701 Democracy Blvd., National Center for
  Research Resources, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892-4874.
  RFIP: Construction applications are to be submitted on a Standard Form 424,
  Application for Federal Assistance.
Award Procedure:
  The initial review of applications from eligible investigators and institutions is
  reviewed by committees comprised of authorities in various fields of biomedical
  research and science education, as appropriate. Each application is given a peer
  evaluation for merit, and recommendations are forwarded to the National
  Advisory Research Resources Council for final review and recommendation.
Deadlines:
  New applications and Resource Center renewals: February 1, June 1, and
  October 1. Other Competing Renewals: March 1, July 1, and November 1.
  NRSA Applications: Individual Fellowships - April 5, August 5, and December
  5. All others: See current RFA or PA or Contact.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 6 to 9 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects
  of the review of their application by communicating with the NCRR staff. A
  description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available on the NIH
  home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html .
Renewals:
  K23, K24, SIG, HEI, Animal Facilities Improvement, and RFIP: None. All
  others may be renewed upon successful reapplication.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  RFIP and Animal Facilities Improvement: NCRR will award up to 50 percent of
                                                                                  1407
