  objectives; (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach;      
  (3) the competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue      
  the project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and           
  resources; (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the   
  proposed project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program          
  objectives. RFIP: Factors considered in making awards include the merit of the       
  proposal, the needs of the institution, with special consideration for institutions  
  designated as centers of excellence, the commitment of the institution, the          
  availability of funds, and the overall program priorities.                           
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.392 CANCER CONSTRUCTION                                                             
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                              
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, Section 413(b) 6(B); 42 U.S.C 285a and Section            
  414(b); 42 U.S.C 285, as amended; Public Law 100-607; Public Law 101-517;            
  Public Law 90-190.                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To renovate existing cancer research facilities and build new cancer research        
  facilities to meet basic and clinical space requirements, laboratory safety,         
  biohazard containment, and animal care standards in order to support the facility    
  demands of National Cancer Institute (NCI) research programs.                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  New physical resources for cancer research include basic research laboratories,      
  clinical and support facilities, and those related to biohazard control that are     
  integral parts of an overall effort. Proposed facilities must be part of an existing 
  cancer research effort or a developing cancer research program. Facilities           
  constructed may not be used to replace existing cancer research facilities.          
  Facilities shall be used for research pertinent to cancer problems for as long as    
  needed, usually 20 years. Funds must be used for purposes stated in the              
  approved grant application.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Any public or nonprofit agency, institution, organization, corporation, or           
  association is eligible to apply for a grant for the construction of cancer research 
  facilities, provided the institution's (1) Located in a State, the District of       
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, American              
  Samoa, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, or Guam; (2) authorized by its    
  governing body to apply for grants and to conduct cancer research and related        
  activities; and (3) conducting NIH or NCI peer-reviewed cancer and/or cancer-        
  related research. Examples include universities, colleges, hospitals, public         
  agencies or nonprofit research institutions.                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Public and private nonprofit organizations and the public needing treatment for      
  cancer will benefit.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Application should include a complete research program description (with staff       
  curricula vitae), space requirements for projected program, an environmental         
  summary of the impact of the proposed facility as detailed in Public Law 90-         
  190, the National Environmental Policy Act, and listing of all relevant licenses,    
  permits, or other approvals required by State and local authorities. Costs will be   
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for Educational                  
  Institutions, OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments, and OMB         
  Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit institutions. For grants issued to hospitals,       
  costs will be determined in accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR Part 74,          
  Appendixes E, "Principles for Determining Costs Applicable to Research and           
  Development Under Grants and Contracts with Hospitals".                              
                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  Preapplication assistance is available from the address noted below under            
  Information Contacts. The standard application forms (PHS 5161-1), as                
  furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR 92 for State and local governments,          
                                                                                       
  must be used for this program. An environmental impact statement and

                                                                                       
  assessment is required for this program. This program is eligible for coverage

                                                                                       
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs". An

                                                                                       
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of

                                                                                       
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires

                                                                                       
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program

                                                                                       
  for review.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Application kits for construction programs can be obtained from Research

                                                                                       
  Facilities Branch, Office of Centers, Training and Resources, Office of the

                                                                                       
  Director, National Cancer Institute, 6120 Executive Boulevard, EPS-638,

                                                                                       
  Bethesda, MD 20892, and returned to the Center for Scientific Review, National

                                                                                       
  Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. Review procedure is according to

                                                                                       
  NIH grant review procedures for research grants.

                                                                                       
Award Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Awards are made annually following the meeting of the National Cancer



                                                                                  11-08
  Advisory Board in September/October.
Deadlines:
  February 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 8 to 16 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator may question the substantive or procedural aspects of
  the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available
  on the NIH home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. The National Cancer Institute (NCI) will
  award up to 50 percent of the eligible costs. Matching funds from nonfederal
  sources are required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Construction must be completed within time specified in grant award. Funds
  will be released in proportion to construction completed.
Reports:
  Grantee is responsible for performance of contractor. Contractor must be
  covered by performance and payment bonds. Grantees are required to file a
  Notice of Federal Interest at the time construction begins.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report
  period.
Account Identification:
  75-0849-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $0 to $0; $0.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  No awards were made in fiscal years 2007 and 2008. The NCI's construction
  grant program is not a very active program compared to the past because the
  National Center for Research Resources has become the effective focus at the
  NIH for construction grants; thus, the NCI works very closely with NCRR.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 38; PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 90-
  50,000, (Rev.) October 1, 1990.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Mr. Daryl Paunil, P.E., Associate Director, (Acting) for Space
  and Facilities Planning, Office of Management, Office of the Director, National
  Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human
  Services, 6116 Executive Boulevard, Suite 600 - MSC 8343, Bethesda, MD
  20892-8343. Telephone: (301) 496-8534. Grants Management Contact: Leo F.
  Buscher, Jr., Grants Management Officer, National Cancer Institute, EPS-234
  Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 496-7753. Use the same numbers for
  FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nih.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.393, Cancer Cause and Prevention Research; 93.394, Cancer Detection and
  Diagnosis Research; 93.395, Cancer Treatment Research; 93.396, Cancer
  Biology Research; 93.397, Cancer Centers Support Grants; 93.399, Cancer
  Control.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Construction of new basic research laboratories for cancer research; (2)
  construction of new clinical and support facilities for cancer research; (3)
  construction of facilities for cancer research related to biohazard control; (4)
  upgrading of existing basic research and animal facilities for cancer research;
  and (5) upgrading of existing clinical and support facilities for cancer research.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) the
  scientific merit of the total cancer program; (2) the degree of the applicant's
  program relevance to the National Cancer Program; (3) the special biohazard
  containment needs; and (4) the evaluation of the ongoing program for research
                                                                                 1409
