  pertinent to cancer problems for at least 20 years; and (5) the evaluation of the    
  proposed design and related cost.                                                    
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.393 CANCER CAUSE AND PREVENTION RESEARCH

                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                              
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301 (c) and 410, Public Law 78-410, as           
  amended, 42 U.S.C. 241; Small Business Research and Development                      
  Enhancement Act of 1992, Public Law 102-564.                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To identify those factors that cause cancer in man and to develop mechanisms         
  for preventing cancer in man. The following research programs are included:          
  epidemiology, chemical and physical carcinogenesis, biological carcinogenesis,       
  nutrition, immunology, field studies and statistics, chemoprevention and organ       
  site studies. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program: To expand           
  and improve the SBIR program; to increase private sector commercialization of        
  innovations derived from Federal research and development; to increase small         
  business participation in Federal research and development; and to foster and        
  encourage participation on socially and economically disadvantaged small             
  business concern and women-owned small business concern in technological             
  innovation. Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program: To stimulate          
  and foster scientific and technological innovation through cooperative research      
  and development carried out between small business concerns and research             
  institutions; to foster technology transfer between small business concerns and      
  research institutions; to increase private sector commercialization of innovations   
  derived from Federal research and development and economically disadvantage          
  small business concerns and women-owned small business concerns in                   
  technological innovation.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants and cooperative agreements may be made to eligible institutions for the       
  support of cancer research projects. The grants and cooperative agreements may       
  be used for personnel, consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel, patient        
  costs, animals, alterations and renovations, miscellaneous items, and indirect       
  costs. SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-months' duration) are to establish    
  the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to   
  a commercial product or process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the     
  research initiated in Phase I, and that are likely to result in commercial products  
  or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to receive Phase II support.        
  STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine the               
  scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed          
  cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase II funding   
  is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical    
  merit and commercial potential of Phase II application. The SBIR Fast-Track          
  Initiative provides additional assistance to applicants by expediting the decision   
  and award of SBIR Phase II funding for scientifically meritorious applications       
  for projects that have a high potential for commercialization. Fast-Track is a       
  parallel review option whereby Phase I and Phase II projects are reviewed            
  concurrently with the aim of reducing or eliminating the funding gap between         
  Phase I and Phase II.                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  The awardee will be a university, college, hospital, public agency, nonprofit        
  research institution or for-profit organization that submits an application and      
  receives a grant or cooperative agreement for support of research by a named         
  principal investigator. SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small            
  businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not   
  dominant in the field in which research is proposed, and have no more than 500       
  employees). Primary employment (more than one- half time) of the principal           
  investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and during the     
  conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must     
  be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant    
  application must be approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a         
  scientific review group and a national advisory council. STTR grants can be          
  awarded only to domestic small business concern (entities that are independently     
  owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in which research is    
  proposed and have no more than 500 employees) which "partner" with a                 
  research institution in cooperative research and development. At least 40 percent    
  of the project is to be performed by the small business concern and at least 30      
  percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research      
  must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a     
  grant applicant must be approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a     
  scientific review group and a national advisory council.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in         
  biomedical research on cancer.                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             


1410                                                                             11-08

  Costs will be determined by OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local
  governments. For other grantees, costs will be determined in accordance with
  HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. For-profit organizations' costs are
  determined in accordance with 48 CFR, Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition
  Regulations. For SBIR and STTR grants, applicant organization (small business
  concern) must present in a research plan and idea that has potential for
  commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific competence,
  experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested are appropriate
  to carry out the plan. Grant forms PHS 6246-1 and PHS 6246-2 are used to
  apply for SBIR Phase I and Phase II, respectively. Grant forms PHS 6246-3 and
  PHS 6246-4 are used to apply for STTR Phase I and Phase II, respectively.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application form PHS-398 (Rev. May 2001) is the standard form which can be
  obtained from the Division of Extramural Outreach and Information Resources,
  National Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive, MSC-7910, Bethesda, MD
  20892-7910. Phone (301)435-1714, E-mail: ASKNIH@odrockml.od.nih. gov.
  The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR,
  Part 92 for State and local governments, must be used for this program. This
  program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local
  governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations. SBIR
  and STTR Grant Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained
  electronically through the NIH's "Small Business Funding Opportunities" home
  page at http://www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World Wide Web. A
  limited number of hard copies of these publications are produced. Subject to
  availability, they may be obtained by contacting the NIH support services
  contractor: Phone: (301) 206-9385; Fax: (301) 206-9722; E-mail:
  a2y@cu.nih.gov. The Solicitations include submission procedures, review
  considerations, and grant application or contract proposal forms. SBIR and
  STTR grant applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific
  Review, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1040 - MSC 7710, Bethesda, MD 20892-
  7710.
Award Procedure:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are funded based on scientific merit,
  program relevance and program balance and are made annually. Initial award
  provides funds for the first budget period (usually 12 months) and Notice of
  Grant Award (Form PHS 1533-2) indicates support recommended for the
  remainder of the project period, allocation of Federal funds by budget categories,
  and special conditions, if any. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are
  evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer
  review panel and by a national advisory council or board. All applications
  receiving a priority score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on
  the basis of scientific and technical merit and commercial potential of the
  proposed research, program relevance, and program balance among the areas of
  research.
Deadlines:
  New Grants: February 1, June 1, and October 1. Renewals and supplements:
  March 1, July 1, and November 1. Cooperative Agreements are usually
  submitted in response to a Request for Applications (RFA). The receipt date is
  stipulated in the RFA. SBIR: April 15, August 15, and December 15. STTR:
  April 1, August 1, and December 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  (Grants) Approximately 10 months. SBIR/STTR: About 7-1/2 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects
  of the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available
  on the NIH home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html.
Renewals:
  Applications submitted for renewal must be reviewed and selected for funding
  on a competitive basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements: Average 3 to 4 years, maximum of 5 years.
  Renewals may be awarded for additional periods of up to 5 years based on
  competitive peer review. Funding is provided through Monthly Demand
  Payment System or Letter of Credit. SBIR: Normally, Phase I awards are for 6
  months; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years. STTR: Normally, Phase I
  awards are for 1 year; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years.
Reports:
  Progress reports are required each year. Annual financial status report is required
  90 days after end of budget period. Special reports may be requested by DHHS.
  Terminal reports are required 6 months after the end of a project.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
