  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are           
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.               
Records:                                                                              
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the      
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report    
  period.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0849-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) For RPG: FY 07 $666,422,000; FY 08 est $654,988,000; and FY 09             
  est $652,650,000. For SBIR/STTR: FY 07 $8,914,000; FY 08 est $9,422,000;            
  and FY 09 est $9,760,000.                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $46,081 to $4,773,855; $381,467.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Competing fiscal year 2007 RPG act. 491 awards which were 24.3 percent of           
  applications received. Competing FY 2007 SBIR/STTR act. 23 awards which

                                                                                      
  were 31.5 percent of applications received. Fiscal year 2008 est. 1,747 total       
  awards and FY 2009 est. 1,711 total awards.                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  42 CFR 52; 42 CFR 74; 45 CFR 92; PHS Grants Policy Statement. No. (OASH)            
  94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994; Grants will be available under the authority of    
  and administered in accordance with the PHS Grants Policy Statement and             
  Federal regulations at 42 CFR 52 and 42 U.S.C. 241; Omnibus Solicitation of         
  the Public Health Service for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant       
  and Cooperative Agreement Applications. Omnibus Solicitation of the National        
  Institutes of Health for Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Grant            
  Applications.                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: For epidemiological and nutrition studies, field studies, and

                                                                                      
  statistics; Dr. Ed Trapido, Associate Director, Epidemiology and Genetics

                                                                                      
  Research Program, Division of Cancer Control and Population Sciences,

                                                                                      
  National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service,

                                                                                      
  Department of Health and Human Services, 6130 Executive Blvd., EPN 5113B,

                                                                                      
  Rockville, MD 20852. Phone: (301) 496-9600. For chemoprevention, organ site

                                                                                      
  studies, and chemical, physical and biological carcinogenesis research; Dr. Peter

                                                                                      
  Greenwald, Director, Division of Cancer Prevention, National Cancer Institute,

                                                                                      
  National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and

                                                                                      
  Human Services, 6130 Executive Blvd., MSC 7309, Rockville, MD 20852.

                                                                                      
  Phone: (301) 496-6616.

                                                                                      
Web Site Address:

                                                                                      
  http://www.nih.gov; http://cancer.gov; http://cancercontrol.cancer.gov;

                                                                                      
  http://prevention.cancer.gov.

                                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                      
  93.394, Cancer Detection and Diagnosis Research; 93.395, Cancer Treatment

                                                                                      
  Research; 93.396, Cancer Biology Research; 93.399, Cancer Control.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Cancer Cause and Prevention Research focuses on research programs in                
  epidemiology, chemical and physical carcinogenesis, biological carcinogenesis,      
  nutrition, chemoprevention and organ site studies. Examples of funded projects      
                                                                                      
  include the following: (1) A epidemiologic study of lung cancer and wood dust;

                                                                                      
  2) prostate cancer in relation to vasectomy; (3) mechanism of estrogen-induced

                                                                                      
  breast carcinogenesis; (4) dietary fat, calories, and two-stage tumorigenesis; (5)

                                                                                      
  mechanisms of radiation, chemical and/or biological carcinogenesis; (6) effects

                                                                                      
  of radiation or chemical carcinogens on genetic material; (7) studies leading to

                                                                                      
  development of vaccines against human cancer viruses; (8) role of the P53 tumor

                                                                                      
  suppressor gene in human cancers of viral etiology; (9) investigations of HIV

                                                                                      
  and their related viruses as etiologic factors or cofactors in the malignant

                                                                                      
  sequelae of AIDS, including Kaposi's sarcoma and AIDS-associated lymphomas;

                                                                                      
  and (10) a phase III chemoprevention clinical trial for prostate cancer

                                                                                      
  (SELECT).

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The

                                                                                      
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;

                                                                                      
  2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the

                                                                                      
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the

                                                                                      
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;

                                                                                      
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed

                                                                                      
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.

                                                                                      
  The following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical

                                                                                      
  merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical

                                                                                      
  merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal

                                                                                      
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological innovation

                                                                                      
  of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research for

                                                                                      
  commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the

                                                                                      
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7)



                                                                                11-08 
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the
  proposed means for a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.
93.394 CANCER DETECTION AND DIAGNOSIS
RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301, 410, and 411, Public Law 78-410, as
  amended, 42 U.S.C. 241; Public Law 100-607, 42 U.S.C. 285 and 285a; Small
  Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992, Public Law
  102-564.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve screening and early detection strategies and to develop accurate
  diagnostic techniques and methods for predicting the course of disease in cancer
  patients. Screening and Early Detection research includes development of
  strategies to decrease cancer mortality by finding tumors early when they are
  more amenable to treatment. Diagnosis research focuses on methods to
  determine the presence of a specific type of cancer; to predict its course and
  response to therapy, both a particular therapy or a class of agents; and to monitor
  the effect of the therapy and the appearance of disease recurrence. These
  methods include diagnostic imaging and direct analyses of specimens from
  tumor or other tissues. Support is also provided for establishing and maintaining
  resources of human tissue to facilitate research. Small Business Innovation
  Research (SBIR) program: To expand and improve the SBIR program; to
  increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal
  research and development; to increase small business participation in Federal
  research and development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially
  and economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned
  small business concerns in technological innovation. Small Business Technology
  Transfer (STTR) program: To stimulate and foster scientific and technological
  innovation through cooperative research and development carried out between
  small business concerns and research institutions; to foster technology transfer
  between small business concerns and research institutions; to increase private
  sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in technological innovation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements may be made to eligible institutions for the
  support of cancer research projects. The grants and cooperative agreements may
  be used for personnel, consultants costs, equipment, supplies, travel, patient
  costs, animals, alterations and renovations, miscellaneous items, and indirect
  costs. SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-months' duration) are to establish
  the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to
  a commercial product or process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the
  research initiated in Phase I, and that are likely to result in commercial products
  or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to receive Phase II support.
  STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine the
  scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed
  cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase II funding
  is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical
  merit and commercial potential of Phase II application. The SBIR Fast-Track
  Initiative provides additional assistance to applicants by expediting the decision
  and award of SBIR Phase II funding for scientifically meritorious applications
  for projects that have a high potential for commercialization. Fast-Track is a
  parallel review option whereby Phase I and Phase II projects are reviewed
  concurrently with the aim of reducing or eliminating the funding gap between
  Phase I and Phase II.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The awardee will be a university, college, hospital, public agency, nonprofit
  research institution or organization, unit of tribal government, or a for-profit
  organization that submits an application and receives a grant or cooperative
                                                                                   1411
