  interventions. Cancer diagnosis and prognosis research depends on interactions      
  among clinicians, basic researchers, and experts in study design to ensure that     
  new diagnostic and prognostic techniques are evaluated efficiently and              
  effectively for more rapid transfer to clinical application. Diagnosis research     
  includes development and evaluation of better methods for monitoring the            
  response to therapy and detecting the recurrence of tumors earlier; utilizing the   
  advances in the development of sensitive molecular biological techniques; and       
  developing more sensitive imaging techniques, including the use of                  
  immunodiagnostic reagents and functional imaging.                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The          
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives; 
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the         
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the         
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;   
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed    
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.      
  The following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical     
  merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical      
  merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal    
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological innovation   
  of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research for            
  commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the    
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7)        
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for       
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or         
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications       
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the     
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and    
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;     
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance  
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for            
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the      
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research      
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the     
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)            
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.             
                                                                                      
93.395 CANCER TREATMENT RESEARCH                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                             
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301, 410, and 411, Public Law 78-410, 42        
  U.S.C. 241, as amended, Public Law 100-607, 42 U.S.C 285(a); Small Business         
  Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992, Public Law 102-564.               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To develop the means to cure as many cancer patients as possible and to control     
  the disease in those patients who are not cured. Cancer Treatment Research          
  includes the development and evaluation of improved methods of cancer               
  treatment through the support and performance of both fundamental and applied       
  laboratory and clinical research. Research is supported in the discovery,           
  development, and clinical testing of all modes of therapy including: surgery,       
  radiotherapy, chemotherapy, and biological therapy including molecularly            
  targeted therapies, both individually and in combination. In addition, research is  
  carried out in areas of nutritional support, stem cell and bone marrow              
  transplantation, image guided therapies and studies to reduce toxicity of           
  cytotoxic therapies, and other methods of supportive care that may supplement       
  and enhance primary treatment. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)            
  program: To expand and improve the SBIR program; to increase private sector         
  commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and                  
  development; to increase small business participation in Federal research and       
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and              
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small            
  business concerns in technological innovation. Small Business Technology            
  Transfer (STTR) program: To stimulate and foster scientific and technological       
  innovation through cooperative research and development carried out between         
  small business concerns and research institutions; to foster technology transfer    
  between small business concerns and research institutions; to increase private      
  sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and           
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and              
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small            
  business concerns in technological innovation.                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants and cooperative agreements may be made to eligible institutions for the      
  support of cancer research projects. The grants may be used for personnel,          


                                                                                 11-08
  consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel, patient costs, animals, alterations
  and renovations, miscellaneous items, and indirect costs. SBIR Phase I grants
  (of approximately 6-months duration) are to establish the technical merit and
  feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a commercial product or
  process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the research initiated in
  Phase I, and that are likely to result in commercial products or processes. Only
  Phase I awardees are eligible to receive Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants
  (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine the scientific, technical, and
  commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed cooperative effort that has
  potential for commercial application. Phase II funding is based on results of
  research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical merit and commercial
  potential of Phase II application. The SBIR Fast-Track Initiative provides
  additional assistance to applicants by expediting the decision and award of SBIR
  Phase II funding for scientifically meritorious applications for projects that have
  a high potential for commercialization. Fast-Track is a parallel option whereby
  Phase I and Phase II projects are reviewed concurrently with the aim of reducing
  or eliminating the funding gap between Phase I and Phase II.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The awardee will be a university, college, hospital, public agency, nonprofit
  research institution, or for-profit organization that submits an application and
  receives a grant or cooperative agreement for support of research by a named
  principal investigator. SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small
  businesses (entities that are independently owned, and operated for profit, are
  not dominant in the field in which research is proposed and have no more than
  500 employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of the principal
  investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and during the
  conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must
  be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant
  application must be approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a
  scientific review group and a national advisory council. STTR grants can be
  awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in
  which research is proposed and have no more than 500 employees) which
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development.
  At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business
  concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and
  Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be
  eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit
  and program relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory
  council.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in
  biomedical research.
Credentials/Documentation:
  For-profit organizations' cost are determined in accordance with 48 CFR,
  Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. Costs will be determined
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
  For other grantees, costs will be determined in accordance with HHS
  Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and STTR grants, applicant
  organization (small business concern) must present in a research plan an idea
  that has potential for commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific
  competence, experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested
  are appropriate to carry out the plan. Grant forms PHS 6246-1 and PHS 6246-2
  are used to apply for SBIR Phase I and Phase II, respectively. Grant forms PHS
  6246-3 and PHS 6246-4 are used to apply for STTR Phase I and Phase II,
  respectively.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application form PHS-398 is the standard form which may be obtained
  electronically from: http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html in
  an interactive format. The standard application forms required by 45 CFR, Part
  92 for State and local governments, must be used for this program. SBIR and
  STTR Grant Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained
  electronically through the NIH's "Small Business Funding Opportunities" home
  page at http://www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the Web. Solicitations
  include submission procedures, review considerations, and grant application or
  contract proposal forms. SBIR and STTR grant applications should be
  submitted to the Center for Scientific Review, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room
  1040-MSC 7710, Bethesda, MD 20892-7710.
Award Procedure:
  Approved grants and cooperative agreements are funded based on scientific
  merit, program relevance, and program balance and are made annually. Initial
  award provides funds for the first budget period (usually 12 months) and Notice
  of Grant Award (Form PHS 1533) indicates support recommended for remainder
  of project period, allocation of Federal funds by budget categories, and special
  conditions, if any. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for
  scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer review panel and
  if they are recommended for further consideration, by a national advisory
  council or board. All applications receiving a priority score compete for
                                                                                  1413
