  be used for personnel, consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel, patient      
  costs, animals, alterations and renovations, miscellaneous items, and Facilities   
  and Administrative Costs (formerly known as indirect costs). SBIR Phase I          
  grants (of approximately 6-months' duration) are to establish the technical merit  
  and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a commercial        
  product or process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the research       
  initiated in Phase I and that are likely to result in commercial products or       
  processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to receive Phase II support. STTR    
  Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine the scientific,      
  technical and commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed cooperative effort  
  that has potential for commercial application. Phase II are for the continuation of
  the research initiated in Phase I that is likely to result in a commercial product.
  The SBIR/STTR Fast Track Initiative provides additional assistance to              
  applicants by expediting the decision and award of SBIR Phase II funding for       
  scientifically meritorious applications for projects that have a high potential for
  commercialization. Fast-Track is a parallel review option whereby Phase I and      
  Phase II projects are reviewed concurrently with the aim of reducing or            
  eliminating the funding gap between Phase I and Phase II.                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  The awardee will be a university, college, hospital, public agency, nonprofit      
  research institution or for-profit organization that submits an application and    
  receives a grant for support of research by a named principal investigator. SBIR   
  grants can be awarded only to domestic small businesses (entities that are         
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in      
  which research is proposed and have no more than 500 employees). Primary           
  employment (more than one-half time) of the principal investigator must be with    
  the small business at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed     
  project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S.  
  and its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant application must be       
  approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific review group   
  and a national advisory council. STTR grants can be awarded only to domestic       
  small business concerns (entities that are independently owned and operated for    
  profit, are not dominant in the field in which research is proposed and have no    
  more than 500 employees)which "partner" with a research institution in             
  cooperative research and development. At least 40 percent of the project must be   
  performed by the small business concern and at least 30 percent by the research    
  institution. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must be performed in U.S.  
  and its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant application must be       
  approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific review group   
  and a national advisory council.                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in       
  biomedical research.                                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State        
  and local governments. For-profit organizations' costs are determined in           
  accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other     
  grantees, costs will be determined in accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR       
  Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and STTR grants, applicant organization (small        
  business concern) must present in a research plan an idea that has potential for   
  commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific competence,                 
  experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested are appropriate   
  to carry out the plan. Grant form SF424(R&R) is used to apply for SBIR Phase I     
  and Phase II, STTR Phase I and Phase II grants, and Fast-Track.                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The NIH is in the process of a transition to fully electronic grant submission     
  through Grants.gov (see http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt for details).         
  Depending on the grant mechanism, either form PHS-398 (Rev. September              
  2004) or form SF424(R&R) (October 2005) is the standard form. Both can be          
  obtained at http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/forms.htm. The standard application      
  forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local     
  governments, must be used for this program. This program is subject to the         
  provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local governments and OMB              
  Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations, as appropriate. SBIR and STTR      
  Grant Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained                 
  electronically through the NIH's "Small Business Funding Opportunities" home       
  page at www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World Wide Web. The             
  Solicitations include submission procedures, review considerations, and grant      
  application or contract proposal forms. All competing SBIR and STTR grant          
  applications must be submitted electronically via Grants.gov The following is a    
  website address for NIH electronic submission of grant application information:    
  http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt/index.htm.                                    
                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Grants and cooperative agreements are funded based on scientific merit,

                                                                                     
  program relevance, and program balance and are made annually. The initial

                                                                                     
  grant award provides funds for the first budget period (usually 12 months) and

                                                                                     
  letter Notice of Award indicates support recommended for the remainder of the

                                                                                     
  project period, allocation of Federal funds by budget categories and special



                                                                                11-08
  conditions, if any. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for
  technical merit by an appropriate scientific review group and if they are
  recommended for further consideration, by a national advisory council. All
  applications receiving a priority score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-
  aside funds on the basis of scientific and technical merit and commercial
  potential of the proposed research, program relevance, and program balance
  among the areas of research.
Deadlines:
  All Grants including renewals and supplements: April 5, August 5, December 5.
  Cooperative Agreements and contracts are usually submitted in response to a
  Request for Applications (RFA) or a Request for Proposals (RFP). The receipt
  date is stipulated in the RFA or RFP.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Regular Grants: Approximately 10 months. SBIR/STTR: Approximately 7-1/2
  months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator may question the substantive or procedural aspects of
  the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available
  on the NIH home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html.
Renewals:
  Applications submitted for renewal are reviewed and selected for funding on a
  competitive basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements: Average 3 to 4 years, and a maximum of 5
  years. Renewals may be awarded for additional periods of up to 5 years based on
  competitive peer review. Funding is provided through Monthly Demand
  Payment System or an Electronic Transfer System. SBIR: Normally, Phase I
  awards are for 6 months; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years. STTR:
  Normally, Phase I awards are for 1 year; normally, Phase II awards are for 2
  years.
Reports:
  Progress reports are required each year. Annual financial status report is
  required 90 days after the end of the budget period. Special reports may be
  requested by DHHS. Terminal reports are required 6 months after the end of a
  project.
Audits:
  "In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133." In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report
  period.
Account Identification:
  75-0849-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) RPG: FY 07 $527,308,000; FY 08 est $497,545,000; and FY 09 est
  $498,852,000. SBIR/STTR: FY 07 $7,923,000; FY 08 est $6,194,000; and FY
  09 est $7,662,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $23,915 to $2,268,192; $335,438.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Competing FY 07 RPG act. 306 awards, which were 17.7 percent of applications
  received. Competing FY 07 SBIR/STTR act. 18 awards, which were 23.1
  percent of applications received. Fiscal year 08 est 1,509 total awards and FY 09
  est 1,489 total awards.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  42 CFR 52; 45 CFR 74; 45 CFR 92; Grants will be available under the authority
  of and administered in accordance with the PHS Grants Policy Statement and
  Federal regulations at 42 CFR 52 and 42 U.S.C. 241; Omnibus Solicitation of
  the Public Health Service for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant
  and Cooperative Agreement Applications. Omnibus Solicitation of the National
  Institutes of Health for Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Grant
  Applications.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Stephen T. White, Special Assistant to the Director, Division
  of Cancer Biology, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health,
  Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, 6130
  Executive Boulevard, EPN-5048, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 496-
                                                                                1415
