  5307. Grants Management Contact: Leo F. Buscher, Jr., Grants Management                
  Officer, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health, Public Health       
  Service, Department of Health and Human Services, EPS-234, Bethesda, MD                
  20892. Telephone: (301) 496-7753.                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.nih.gov.                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  93.393, Cancer Cause and Prevention Research; 93.394, Cancer Detection and             
  Diagnosis Research; 93.395, Cancer Treatment Research; 93.399, Cancer                  
  Control.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  (1) Studies of the properties of the membranes of malignant cells; (2) studies of      
  the molecular genetics of oncogenes and tumor suppressor genes and the                 
  proteins they encode; (3) studies of the mechanism of action of growth factors         
  and other growth modifiers and differentiation agents; (4) studies of the              
  regulation of the biology of tumor cells by their micro environment; (5) studies       
  of the synthesis, structure, and function of humoral factors that participate in,      
  activate, and/or regulate the immune response to tumors, including interferons,        
  interleukins, growth factors, helper factors, suppressor factors, etc., as they are    
  involved in immune responses to tumors; (6) studies of the immunobiology of            
  lymphocytes, macrophages, and other cells that may participate in immune               
  surveillance responses (e.g., natural killer cells and cytotoxic T cells); (7) studies 
  of the immune mechanisms involved in effective immunotherapy in animal                 
  models and humans, including studies on the development vaccine approaches             
  to cancer therapy or prevention; (8) studies of bone marrow transplantation in         
  humans and animals as a treatment for cancer when the emphasis is on                   
  immunologic problems such as immune reconstitution, sensitization and graft-           
  versus-host disease.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The             
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;    
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the            
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the            
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;      
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed       
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.         
  The following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical        
  merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) the soundness and technical         
  merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal       
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological innovation      
  of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research for               
  commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the       
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7)           
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for          
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or            
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications          
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the        
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and       
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;        
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and   
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance     
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for               
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the         
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research         
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the        
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)               
                                                                                         
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.

                                                                                         
                                                                                         
93.397 CANCER CENTERS SUPPORT GRANTS                                                     
                                                                                         
   (CCSG)

                                                                                         
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                         
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND

                                                                                         
  HUMAN SERVICES

                                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:

  Public Health Service Act, Section 305(a), 410, 411, and 414, Public Law 78-           
                                                                                         
  410, 42 U.S.C. 241, as amended; Public Law 100-607, 42 U.S.C. 285, 285a and

                                                                                         
  285a-3; Public Law 99-500.

                                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:

  To provide an organizational focus and stimulus for the highest quality cancer         
  research that effectively promotes interdisciplinary cancer research aimed             
  toward the ultimate goal of reducing cancer incidence, mortality and morbidity.        
  The Cancer Center Support Grant (CCSG) provides the resources and                      
  infrastructure to facilitate the coordination of interdisciplinary programs across a   
  broad spectrum of research from basic laboratory research to clinical                  
  investigation to population science. The CCSG supports salaries for scientific         
                                                                                         
  leadership of the Center, shared resources for funded center investigators, certain

                                                                                         
  administrative costs, planning and evaluation, and developmental funds for new

                                                                                         
  recruitments and feasibility studies.



1416                                                                               11-08

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  In general, CCSGs do not support research projects directly but are used to
  enhance the ongoing cancer research and to strengthen the existing research base
  according to the "Policies and Guidelines Relating to the Cancer Center Support
  Grant."
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any nonprofit institution within the United States with a peer-reviewed cancer
  research base of 4.0 million dollars in direct costs may apply for a Cancer Center
  Support Grant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  University, college, public agency or research institution in the U.S.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The application requests documentation concerning the qualifications of the
  principal investigators and associates, pertinent budget information and
  justification for the support of this proposed grant. Methods to be utilized are
  outlined in the application materials. Costs will be determined in accordance
  with HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q, and for State and local
  governments in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Method of Application: Form PHS-398 (Rev. May 2001) can be obtained from
  the, Division of Extramural Outreach and Information Resources, National
  Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892-7910.
  Telephone (301)435-0714; e-mail ASKNIH@odrockml.od.nih.gov. In addition,
  supplemental instructions for applications are contained in the Cancer Center
  Support Grant Guidelines which can be obtained by writing to the Cancer
  Centers Branch, 6116 Executive Boulevard, Suite 700, MSC 8345, Bethesda,
  MD 20892-8345 or by calling (301)496-8531. Generally, the potential applicant
  should send a letter of intent to the National Cancer Institute, submitting a
  CCSG application to the same address for review (see Guidelines for CCSGs).
  Completed applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific Review,
  National Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892. This
  program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local
  governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are funded based on scientific merit, program relevance, and program
  balance and are made annually. Initial award provides funds for the first budget
  period (usually 12 months) and Notice of Grant Award (Form PHS 1533)
  indicates support recommended for the remainder of the project period,
  allocation of Federal funds by budget categories and special conditions, if any.
Deadlines:
  Cancer Center Support Grant Applications (P30 mechanism): Renewals, New
  and Supplemental: February 1, June 1, and October 1. Cancer Center Planning
  Grant Applications (P20 mechanism): No new applications are accepted.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Core Grants: Approximately 10 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator may question the substantive or procedural aspects of
  the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available
  on the NIH home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html.
Renewals:
  Same procedure as new applications.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 5 years of support may be requested. Grants may be awarded up to 5 years
  based on competitive peer review.
Reports:
  Progress reports are required each year. An annual financial status report is
  requested 90 days after the end of the budget period. Special reports may be
  requested by DHHS. Terminal reports are required 90 days after the end of a
  project.
Audits:
  "In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133." In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report
  period.
