  Up to 5 years.                                                                      
Reports:                                                                              
  Progress reports are required each year. An annual financial status report is       
  required 90 days after the end of the budget period. Special reports may be         
  requested by the grantor. Terminal reports are required 6 months after the end of   
  a project.                                                                          
Audits:                                                                               
  "In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  24, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133." In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are          
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government               
  officials.                                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the      
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report    
  period.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0849-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants/Manpower) FY 07 $179,155,000; FY 08 est $180,965,000; and FY 09             
  est $181,540,000.                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $12,607 to $1,068,450; $176,160.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In FY 2007, 232 Individual FTTPs (Full Time Training Position)                      
  positions/awards were made totaling (competing and non-competing)                   
  $3,820,000; 1,213 Institutional FTTPs were supported through awards                 
  (competing and non-competing) totaling $13,906,000; 525 Career awards were          
  made totaling $79,595,000; 89 Cancer Education awards were made totaling            
  $31,337,000. In FY 2008, it is estimated that 1,052 Manpower awards will be         
  made. In FY 2009, it is estimated that 2,099 Manpower awards will made.             
  During this period, the NCI has been implementing a new strategic plan that         
  places greater emphasis on protecting the time and stabilizing the careers of       
  MD's in research and prevention and control scientists; nearly all of the growth    
  in the program has focused on these two fields. Both of these fields are            
  threatened by either managed care medicine or academic culture and they are         
  both critical to the translational research success of the NCI in the future.       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  42 CFR 6; 42 CFR 66; 45 CFR 74; Application kit, National Institutes of             
  Health; PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-                
  50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994.                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: Dr. Lester Gorelic, Cancer Training Branch, National Cancer        
  Institute, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health and Human            
  Services, 6116 Executive Boulevard, Room 7025, Bethesda, MD 20892.                  
  Telephone: (301) 496-8580. Grants Management Contact: Leo F. Buscher, Jr.,          
  Grants Management Officer, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of        
  Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, EPS-        
  234, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 496-7753. Use the same numbers            
  for FTS.                                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.cancer.gov/researchandfunding/training                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.399, Cancer Control.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  (1) Individual Fellowship: Molecular mechanisms of breast tumor metastasis;

                                                                                      
  Identification of a Melonoma Susceptibilty Gene at 1p22; (2) Institutional

                                                                                      
  Training: Training In Radiation Oncology Sciences; Program for Training in

                                                                                      
  Cancer Epidemiology; (3) Cancer Education: Oncology Nursing Education in

                                                                                      
  End of Life Care; Simultaneous Care: Linking Palliation to Clinical Trials; (4)

                                                                                      
  Career: Community-based Skin Cancer Prevention Research; Prostate Cancer--

                                                                                      
  Mechanisms of Bax induced Cell Death.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include the assessment of: (1) The

                                                                                      
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;

                                                                                      
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the

                                                                                      
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the

                                                                                      
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;

                                                                                      
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed

                                                                                      
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.399 CANCER CONTROL                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
                                                                                      
1418                                                                            11-08

  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Sections 301 and 412, Public Law 78-
  410; 42 U.S.C. 241; Public Law 100-607; 42 U.S.C. 285a-1; Public Law 99-
  500.
OBJECTIVES:
  To reduce cancer incidence, morbidity, and mortality through an orderly
  sequence from research on interventions and their impact in defined populations
  to the broad, systematic application of the research results through dissemination
  and diffusion strategies. Primary emphasis is on the inclusion of a cancer
  prevention and control intervention in any proposed study. Cancer Prevention
  and Cancer Control research studies are classified into one of five phases that
  represent the orderly progression noted in the definition: (1) Hypothesis
  development; (2) methods development and testing; (3) controlled intervention
  trials to establish cause-and-effect relationships; (4) research in defined
  populations; and (5) demonstration and implementation studies. Primary
  interests are in research on cancer control interventions in Phases 2 through 5,
  and on cancer prevention research in all phases. Cancer Prevention and Control
  programs include those in the following areas: (1) chemoprevention; (2)cancer
  communications; (3) nutrition, diet, and physical activity; (4) screening and
  early detection, including biomarker development and validation; (5)
  biobehavioral mechanisms; (6) tobacco control; (7) special populations research;
  (8) symptom management, cancer rehabilitation and survivorship; (9) health
  services and outcomes research; and (10) surveillance research. Both Cancer
  Prevention and Cancer Control use the Small Business Innovation Research
  (SBIR) and the Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs to
  encourage research participation by the small business community. The goals of
  each program are as follows. SBIR: To expand and improve the SBIR program;
  to increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal
  research and development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially
  and economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned
  small business concerns in technological innovation. STTR: To stimulate and
  foster scientific and technological innovation through cooperative research and
  development carried out between small business concerns and research
  institutions; to foster technology transfer between small business concerns and
  research institutions; to increase private sector commercialization of innovations
  derived from Federal research and development; and to foster and encourage
  participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small business
  concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological
  innovation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants and cooperative agreements may be made to eligible institutions for the
  support of cancer research projects. The grants and cooperative agreements may
  be used for personnel, consultant costs, equipment, supplies, travel, patient
  costs, animals, alterations and renovations, miscellaneous items, and indirect
  costs. Restrictions are imposed against the use of funds for entertainment,
  foreign travel (unless specifically authorized), office equipment, and other items
  not normally necessary for the effective prosecution of such research. SBIR
  Phase I grants (of approximately 6- months' duration) are to establish the
  technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to
  commercial product or process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the
  research initiated in Phase I, and that are likely to result in commercial products
  or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to apply for Phase II support.
  STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine the
  scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed
  cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase II funding
  is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical
  merit and commercial potential of Phase II application. The SBIR Fast-Track
  Initiative provides additional assistance to applicants by expediting the decision
  and award of SBIR Phase II funding for scientifically meritorious applications
  for projects that have a high potential for commercialization. Fast-Track is a
  parallel review option whereby Phase I and Phase II projects are reviewed
  concurrently with the aim of reducing or eliminating the funding gap between
  Phase I and Phase II.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The awardee will be a university, college, hospital, public agency, nonprofit
  research institution or for-profit organization that submits an application and
  receives a grant or cooperative agreement for support of research by a named
  principal investigator. SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small
  businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not
  dominant in the field in which research is proposed, and have no more than 500
  employees). Primary employment (more than one- half time) of the principle
  investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and during the
  conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must
  be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant
  must be approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific
  review group and a national advisory council. STTR grants can be awarded only
