  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed     
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.       
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.441 INDIAN SELF-DETERMINATION

                                                                                       
   (Indian Self-Determination 638 Contracts)                                           
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                                
  SERVICES                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Title I, Public Law 93-      
  638, as amended, Section 102; Contract Disputes Act of 1978; 31 U.S.C. 75.           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To enable Indian tribes to assume the management and operation of programs,          
  functions, services, and activities (PFSA) for the delivery of health care to Indian 
  people. To enter into a self- determination contract or contracts with Indian        
  tribes or tribal organizations (T/TO) interested in transferring the responsibility  
  for the administration and provision of health services from the government to       
  tribal leadership.                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds are for the tribes to provide the PFSAs transferred from the Indian Health     
  Service (IHS). The funds are not available for construction unless specifically      
  authorized by Congress. Tribes can reallocate funds within their budget from         
  one line item to another without contract modifications. Tribes also receive         
  administrative funds for the contracted programs.                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Any federally-recognized tribe that formally requests, through a governing body      
  action, a resolution, to enter into a self-determination contract or contracts for   
  the purpose of planning, conducting, and administering programs, or portions         
  thereof, including construction programs, provided that the T/TO submits a           
  contract proposal that conforms to the requirements contained in 25 CFR 900.8        
  may apply.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Indian tribes will benefit.                                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The Agency shall, within 30 days of receipt of a notice of intent to contract,       
  provide the tribe pre- proposal technical assistance, if requested to do so. The     
  Agency will also notify the tribe of the amount of funds available to contract,      
  under 106(a) of the ISDA, and begin planning for the transfer of responsibilities    
  and funding to the tribe. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.          
  12372.                                                                               
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  A tribe or tribal organization may submit a proposal for a self-determination        
  contract or a proposal to amend or renew an existing contract. Unless there is a     
  declination issue the Secretary shall within 90 days after receiving the proposal,   
  approve the proposal and award a contract to the tribe. Declination issues are:      
  (A) The service to be rendered to the Indian beneficiaries of the particular         
  program or function to be contracted will not be satisfactory; (B) adequate          
  protection of trust resources is not assured; (C) the proposed project or function   
  to be contracted for cannot be properly completed or maintained by the proposed      
  contract; (D) the amount of funds proposed under the contract is in excess of the    
  applicable funding level for the contract as determined under Section 106(a); or     
  (E) the program, function, service, or activity (or portion thereof) that is the     
  subject of the proposal is beyond the scope of programs, functions, services, or     
  activities covered under paragraph (1) because the proposal includes activities      
  that cannot lawfully be carried out by the contractor.                               
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The agency negotiation learn and the representatives of the tribe shall develop      
  the agenda for the contract negotiation session(s). The agency negotiation team      
  should assure that any issues identified during the proposal review stage,           
  together with any agency recommendations for overcoming these issues, are            
  raised at the negotiations. Title I contracts are generally awarded at the area      
  office level. They are awarded for a definite period of time (1 to 3 years) or may   
  be designated as "mature" and awarded for a definite or indefinite period of         
  time.                                                                                
Deadlines:                                                                             
  (1) The tribe must be notified within 2 days of the receipt of a proposal that the   
  agency has received their proposal; (2) within 7 days of the receipt of a proposal   
  the agency will assemble a proposal review team; (3) within 15 days of the           
  receipt of a proposal the tribe will be notified of any missing information; (4) if  
  a tribe requests technical assistance it will be provided within 30 days of the date 
  of the request from the tribe; (5) final negotiations should be completed within     
  60 days of the receipt of a proposal; and (6) the agency has 90 days from the        
  date of the receipt of a proposal to review and award or decline a contract          
  proposal.                                                                            


1420                                                                             11-08

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Provisions of the Contract Disputes Act of 1978 (CDA) describe the procedures
  the agency will follow for claims in excess of $100,000 and claims for less than
  $100,000.
Appeals:
  Section 102 of the ISDA and Subpart L of the regulations are the basic sections
  covering the appeal procedures. Section 900.150 of 25 CFR lists the decisions a
  T/TO can appeal under Subpart L (25 CFR 900.150-169). The procedures here
  apply to those appeals. Also, 25 CFR Section 900.151 of the regulations
  describes appeals that are covered under Subpart N of the regulations and other
  appeals. The T/TO has three options in appealing a decision under 25 CFR 900-
  150. The T/TO can request an informal conference and/or can file a formal
  appeal. The T/TO also has the option of going directly to the Federal court at any
  time.
Renewals:
  Annual funding agreements are renegotiated and renewed annually. Title I
  contracts may be designated as "mature" and awarded for a definite or indefinite
  period of time.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  A T/TO may use funds provided under a Title I contract to meet matching or
  close participation requirements under other Federal and nonfederal programs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Unless required by statute, there are no mandatory reporting requirements for
  Title I contracts. Each T/TO shall negotiate with the agency the type and
  frequency of program narrative and program data report(s), that respond to the
  needs of the contracting parties and that are appropriate for the purposes of the
  contract.
Audits:
  Section 5(f) of the ISDA requires a T/TO to submit an annual "Single Audit Act"
  as required by Chapter 75 of Title 31 USC. OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of
  States, Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations, revised June 24, 1997,
  rescinded circular No. A-128 and superseded the Prior version of A-133.
  Revised circular No. A-133 now applies to T/TO. In accordance with the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for the year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) and the Comptroller
  General of the United States or any of their authorized representatives, shall have
  the right to access any books, documents, papers, or other records of a grantee,
  subgrantee, contractor, or subcontractor, which are pertinent to the HHS award,
  in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts, and transcripts. Grantees are
  required to maintain accounting records 3 years after the end of the budget
  period of the award. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action
  involving the records shall be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues arising from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later.
Account Identification:
  75-0390-0-1-551; 75-0391-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $509,600,000; FY 08 $509,600,000; and FY 09 est
  not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $31,963 to $25,950,652; $1,722,872.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The transfer of responsibility for the delivery of health care from the IHS to the
  tribes for the delivery of their own health care has been successful. Forty-two
  percent of the IHS budget has been transferred to contracting and compacting
  tribes to deliver IHS funded services to their own communities. The remaining
  58 percent of the IHS budget funds IHS managed health care delivery systems.
  There are Indian self-determination contracts covering tribally operated facilities
  that include three hospitals, 97 health centers, one school health center, and 65
  health stations. Similar support is expected in fiscal year 2005 and fiscal year
  2006.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Public Law 93-638, as amended, Internal Agency Procedures Manual for
  Contracting Under Title I of the Indian Self-Determination and Education
  Assistance Act; Indian Health Circular No. 2000-01, "Contract Support Costs
  apply."
Regional or Local Office:
  Aberdeen Area IHS, Alaska Area IHS, Albuquerque Area IHS, Bemidji Area
  IHS, Billings Area IHS, California Area IHS, Nashville Area IHS, Navajo Area
  IHS, Oklahoma City Area IHS, Phoenix Area IHS, Portland Area IHS, and
  Tucson Area IHS.
Headquarters Office:
