  Mr. Douglas Black, Director, Office of Tribal Programs, Indian Health Service,         
  801 Thompson Avenue, Suite 220, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (301)                  
  443-1104. Grants Management Contact: Ms. Kimberly Pendleton, Senior                    
  Grants Management Officer, Division of Grants Operations, Indian Health                
  Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, TMP, Suite 360, Rockville, MD 20852.                     
  Telephone: (301) 443-5204.                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.ihs.gov.                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  Hospitals and Health Clinics, Dental Health, Mental Health, Alcohol and                
  Substance Abuse, Contract Health Service, HIV/AIDS, Public Health Nursing,             
  Health Education, Community Health Representatives, Immunization AK,                   
  Indian Health Professionals, Director Operations, Contract Support Costs,              
  Diabetes, Catastrophic Health Emergency Fund, Facilities Maintenance and               
  Improvement, Sanitation Facilities Construction, Health Care Facilities                
  Construction, Facilities and Environmental Health Support, Equipment, and              
  Personnel Quarters.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  Applicants who meet the requirements of Section 102 of Public Law 93-638, as           
  amended, and provide a proposal in accordance with 25 CFR 900 will be                  
  funded.                                                                                
                                                                                         
93.442 SPECIAL DIABETES PROGRAM FOR INDIANS                                              
                                                                                         
(SDPI) COMPETITIVE GRANT PROGRAM

                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                                  
  SERVICES                                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33; Consolidated Appropriations            
  Act 2001, Public Law 106-554; Reauthorization of SDPI 2002, Public Law 107-            
  360.                                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  The Indian Health Service (IHS) announces a new initiative under the Special           
  Diabetes Program for Indians (SDPI). This funding mechanism is a competitive           
  grant program that will provide funding to selected SDPI grantees for a                
  demonstration project to implement and evaluate defined activities in one of two       
  areas (primary prevention of diabetes or prevention of cardiovascular disease in       
  people with diabetes).                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Funds (including direct costs and allowable indirect costs) may be used only for       
  expenses clearly related and necessary to carry out approved activities that will      
  support the implementation and evaluation of demonstration projects under this         
  competitive grant program.                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  Applicants eligible to receive an award under this announcement are SDPI grant         
  recipients. The applicant must be one of the following entities: IHS hospital or       
  clinic, federally recognized Tribes, Title V Urban Indian Health Programs or           
  consortia of any of the above. A SDPI grant recipient can apply only once as a         
  single entity or as part of consortia. An application submitted by consortia of        
  SDPI grant recipients must be submitted by one of the SDPI grant recipients            
  sanctioned as the principal applicant. A letter of support must be included in the     
  application from each SDPI grantee the principle applicant is representing. The        
  letter must specifically state that the principal applicant is officially representing 
  that SDPI grantee in this application. Applicants for consortia who do not             
  submit these letters of support at the time of the application receipt date will not   
  be reviewed and are ineligible for the award. Smaller applicants are encouraged        
  to apply as part of consortia, especially their diabetes registry is less than 250.    
  Applicants are strongly encouraged to establish eligibility of their proposed          
  applications prior to submission. Inquires about eligibility should be addressed       
  to Mary Tso, SDPI Grants Specialist, IHS National Diabetes Program at 505-             
  248-4182; email to diabetesprogram@mail.ihs.gov. Applicants that are not               
  SDPI grant recipients are not eligible. Non-profit tribal organizations or             
  national/area health boards are not eligible, consistent with recent tribal            
  consultation on this issue. Applications that do not meet these eligibility            
  requirements will be returned to the applicant without further review.                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  American Indians and Alaska Natives will be the ultimate beneficiaries of the          
  funded demonstration projects through either prevention or direct treatment            
  services.                                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87, "Cost               
  Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments" or OMB Circular             
  No. A-122, "Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organizations."                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental



                                                                                    11-08
  Review of Federal Programs." A State approval is not required.
Application Procedure:
  Applications can be found in the grants.gov. Applications will also be available
  on request from the IHS National Diabetes Program at the following address:
  5300 Homestead Road, NE, Albuquerque, NM 87110. Telephone: (505) 248-
  4182, fax 505-248-4188, email address: diabetesprogram@mail.ihs.gov. The
  application will be posted on the IHS National Diabetes Program web site at
  www.ihs.gov/medicalprograms/diabetes and on the HHS Grants web site at
  www.grants.gov on or before June 1, 2005. Applicants may submit one
  application for one or both demonstration projects. A separate application is
  required for each demonstration project. Applicants will be funded for only one
  project (primary prevention of diabetes or prevention of cardiovascular disease
  in people with diabetes). Tribal Approval of Application/Letter of Support: It is
  the policy of the IHS that all projects involving AIAN tribes be approved by the
  Tribal governments with jurisdiction. Therefore, the following documentation is
  required as part of this application: 1) For federally recognized Indian tribe - a
  resolution of support from the Tribal government must be a part of the
  application. Applications that involve more than one Indian tribe must include
  resolutions of support from all participating tribes. 2) For an eligible consortium
  of tribes - a resolution of support from each tribe of the consortium must be
  included. 3) For Title V Urban Indian Health Programs - a letter of support from
  the program's board must be included. 4) For IHS hospitals or clinics - a letter of
  support from the Service Unit Director or Chief Executive Officer must be
  included. 5) For all applicants - letters of support from all partners and
  collaborating entities. The preferred method for receipt of applications is
  electronic submission through Grants.gov. However, should any technical
  problems arise regarding the submission, please contact Grants.gov Customer
  Support at 1-800-518-4726 or support@grants.gov. The Contact Center hours of
  operation are Monday-Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (Eastern Standard
  Time). If you require additional assistance please contact Michelle G. Bulls,
  Grants Policy Officer; Telephone: (301) 443-6528 at least fifteen days prior to
  the application deadline. To submit an application electronically, please use the
  http://www.Grants.gov apply site. Download a copy of the application package,
  on the Grants.gov website, complete it offline and then upload and submit the
  application via the Grants.gov site. You may not e-mail an electronic copy of a
  grant application to us. Upon receipt, IHS will administratively review
  applications by completeness and responsiveness. Applications that are
  incomplete, non-responsive to this RFA, do not meet eligibility criteria or do not
  follow the guidelines of the SF 424 will be returned to the applicant without
  further consideration. Applications will be evaluated for technical merit by
  appropriate peer review groups convened by the IHS National Diabetes Program
  in accordance with established criteria.
Award Procedure:
  Applicants will only be eligible to receive one award for funding in one area (i.e.
  primary prevention of diabetes or prevention of cardiovascular disease in people
  with diabetes. Priorities for funding will be based on the technical merit of the
  application, the assessed potential of the applicant and the likelihood of the
  applicant to successfully implement the defined interventions. Awards will be
  made only to organizations with financial management systems and management
  capabilities that are acceptable under PHS Policy. Awards will be administered
  under the PHS Grants Policy Statement. Awards will be subject to the
  availability of funds and grants will be administered in accordance with
  applicable Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circulars, Department of
  Health and Human Services grant regulations at 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92, the
  Public Health Service Grants Policy Statement and other applicable IHS polices
  and procedures such as the regulations governing protection of human subjects
  at 45 CFR Part 46. Grants Management will not award a grant without an
  approved application in conformance with regulatory and policy requirements
  and which describes the purpose and scope of the project to be funded. When
  the application is approved for funding, the Grants Management Office will
  prepare a Notice of Grant Award with special terms and conditions binding upon
  the award and refer to all general terms applicable to the award.
Deadlines:
  Prospective applicants are asked to submit a letter of intent that includes the
  selected area for the application (primary prevention of diabetes or prevention of
  CVD in people with diabetes), the name, address, and telephone number of the
  Project Director and its Program Coordinator, and the number and title of this
  RFA. The letter of intent must be received by the IHS National Diabetes
  Program, 5300 Homestead Road NE, Albuquerque, NM 87110, telephone 505-
  248-4182, fax 505-248-4188, email: mary.tso@mail.ihs.gov, before 6:00 pm
  MDT on June 1, 2008. Letters may be submitted by mail, fax, or email.
  Although a letter of intent is not required, is not binding, and does not enter into
  the review of a subsequent application, the information that it contains allows
  the IHS staff to estimate the potential review workload and avoid conflict of
  interest in the review. Application and Resolution Date: July 1, 2008. The
  applications must be received before 6:00 pm MDT on July 1, 2008. If an
  application is received after that date, it will be returned to the applicant without
  review. To be considered timely, an application must be received on or before
  the deadline date. No additional materials received after the deadline will be
                                                                                    1421
