  considered. Applications not meeting the deadline date specified in the            
  announcement are considered late applications and will not be considered for       
  funding under the announcement. Receipt of applications will be acknowledged       
  by postcard.                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The anticipated date for the announcement of selectees is 60 days after the        
  application due date.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  This funding will be awarded as a grant, renewable annually for up to 5 years.     
  The HIS National Diabetes Program will determine if grants are renewable after     
  5 years depending on funding levels and congressional actions.                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  There will be only one funding cycle for FY 2004 - FY 2008. This funding will      
  be awarded as a grant, renewable annually for up to 5 years. Awards under this     
  initiative will be administered using the competing institutional grant            
  mechanism of the Indian Health Service. Applicants should request the first year   
  as a planning year, and the next 4 years as full implementation of demonstration   
  project activities.                                                                
Reports:                                                                             
  Given the importance of the outcomes of this demonstration project to future       
  funding of the Special Diabetes Program for Indians, particular emphasis will be   
  placed on the timely and comprehensive reporting of results through a variety of   
  mechanisms. The IHS NDP and the Grants Management Office have                      
  requirements for the progress reports and financial reports based on the terms     
  and conditions of these grant. Grantees are responsible and accountable for        
  accurate reporting of the Progress Reports and Financial Status Reports which      
  are generally due annually. Financial Status Report (SF 269) is due 90 days after  
  each budget period and the final SF 269 must be verified from the grantee          
  records on how the value was derived. Grantees are allowed a reasonable period     
  of time in which to submit required financial and performance reports. Failure to  
  submit required reports within the time allowed may result in suspension or        
  termination of an active grant, withholding of additional awards for the project,  
  or other enforcement actions such as withholding of payments or converting to      
  the reimbursement method of payment. Continued failure to submit required

  reports may result in the imposition of special award provisions, or cause other

                                                                                     
  eligible projects or activities involving the grant recipient, or the individual

  responsible for the delinquency to not be funded. Progress reports will be         
  required on an annual basis.                                                       
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are          
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government              
  officials.                                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records of the grant must be retained for 3 years after submission of    
  the final expenditure report. If questions remain, such as those resulting from an 
  audit, pertinent records must be kept until the matter is resolved. The Secretary, 
  the Inspector General of the Department of the Health and Human Services, and      
  the Comptroller General of the United States or any of their authorized            
  representatives shall have the right to access all records, report, books,         
  document, papers or other records of the grantee, contractor, or subcontractor or  
  of any entity pertinent to the DHHS grant in order to make audits, examinations,   
  excerpts and transcripts.                                                          
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0390-0-1-551.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Competitive Grant) FY 07 $23,300,000; FY 08 $23,300,000; and FY 09 est not        
  available.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  The total amount of funding available is $23,300,000 and the number of             
  anticipated awards will be approximately 60 (30 in each intervention area). The    
  expected amount of individual awards will vary based on size of the program,       
  and will vary from $200,000 to $300,000 per year.                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None to date. This competitive grant program is a new initiative under the 2002    
  Reauthorization of the Special Diabetes Program for Indians grant program,         
  Public Law 107-360.                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  45 CFR 92 and 45 CFR 74; Public Health Service Grants Policy Statement,            
  DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000 (Rev.) April 1, 1994.                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                            


1422                                                                           11-08

  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Dr Kelly Acton or Lorraine Valdez, BSN, MPA, CDE IHS
  National Diabetes Program 5300 Homestead Road NE Albuquerque, NM 87110
  Telephone 505-248-4182 Fax 505-248-4188 Email:
  diabetesprogram@mail.ihs.gov Grants Management Office Contact: Ms.
  Kimberly Pendleton, Senior Grants Management Officer, Division of Grants
  Operations, Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, TMP, Suite 360
  Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: 301-443-5204, Fax 301-443-9602.
Web Site Address:
  IHS National Diabetes Program: http://www.ihs.gov/medicalprograms/diabetes;
  http://www.grants.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated in accordance with the criteria stated below for
  technical merit by appropriate peer review groups convened by the IHS National
  Diabetes Program. Applications will be reviewed and scored according to the
  quality of their responses to the requirements listed below for developing the
  project narrative: 1) statement of need, 2) proposed implementation approach, 3)
  management plan and staffing, and 4) evaluation plan. The IHS National
  Diabetes Program will convene 2 review groups, one for each area in this
  initiative. The recommendations from the review committees will be considered
  by the IHS NDP. The Director of the IHS NDP will make the final funding
  decisions in consideration of the following points, some of which were based on
  input from the tribal consultation: strengths and weaknesses of the application as
  identified by peer reviewers, likelihood of success in implementation of the
  activities, demonstrated capacity of the applicant for programmatic
  implementation, availability of funds, and other factors based on tribal
  consultation including distribution of awards in terms of geography and balance
  among program size, program type (i.e. IHS, Tribal, urban vs. rural, hospital,
  clinic, etc.) Awards will be made only to organizations with financial
  management systems and management capabilities that are acceptable under
  PHS Policy. Awards will be administered under the PHS Grants Policy
  Statement.
93.443 HEALTH PROMOTION/DISEASE PREVENTION
PROGRAM FOR AMERICAN INDIANS AND ALASKA
NATIVES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Authorized by 25 U.S.C. 13, Synder Act, Public Law 83-568, Transfer Act, 42
  U.S.C. 2001.
OBJECTIVES:
  To create healthier American Indian/Alaska Native (AI/AN) communities by
  developing, implementing, and coordinating innovative and effective
  community and clinic-based interventions programs designed to promote health
  and prevent chronic disease and disability.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This assistance is available to federally-recognized Indian Tribes, Tribal
  organizations, and urban Indian organizations. This assistance is used to
  develop, implement, and coordinate innovative and effective community and
  clinic-based interventions programs to promote health and prevent chronic
  disease. Funds (including direct and allowable indirect costs) may be used for
  expenses directly related and necessary to carry out approved activities that will
  support the implementation and evaluation of projects under this competitive
  grant program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Federally-recognized tribes, tribal organizations, nonprofit organizations
  primarily American Indians and Alaska Natives, and urban Indian organizations
  may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals who are members of an eligible applicant tribe, band, or group or
  village and who may be regarded as within the scope of the Indian Health and
  medical service program and who are regarded as an Indian by the community in
  which he lives as evidenced by such factors as tribal membership, enrollment,
  residence on tax exempt land, ownership or restricted property, active
  participation in tribal affairs or other relevant factors in keeping with general
  Bureau of Indian Affairs practices in the jurisdiction.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Certification of American Indian or Alaska descent is required for direct
  services. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87
  for State, local, and Indian Tribal governments, and Circular No. A-122 for
