  Tribal nonprofit organizations codified through applicable grant administration     
  regulations 45 CFR Part 92 and as applicable 45 CFR Part 74.                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The preferred method for receipt of applications is electronic submission           
  through Grants.gov. However, should any technical problems arise regarding          
  the submission, please contact Grants.gov Customer Support at 1-800-518-4726        
  or support@grants.gov. The Contact Center hours of operation are Monday-            
  Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (Eastern Standard Time). If you require          
  additional assistance please contact Michelle G. Bulls, Grants Policy Officer at    
  (301) 443-6528 at least fifteen days prior to the application deadline. To submit   
  an application electronically, please use the http://www.Grants.gov apply site.     
  Download a copy of the application package, on the Grants.gov website,              
  complete it offline and then upload and submit the application via the              
  Grants.gov site. You may not e-mail an electronic copy of a grant application to    
  us. Health Promotion/Disease Prevention program are processed and                   
  administered by IHS Headquarters. This program is subject to the provisions of      
  45 CFR Part 92 for Indian tribes and Part 74 for Nonprofit organizations, and       
  OMB Circulars No. A-110, A-122, A-87, and A-102.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Grants are awarded on a competitive basis with processing and final approval by     
  Indian Health Service Headquarters.                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the Headquarters Office for application deadlines.                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Grants are approved or disapproved within 90 days of receipt of grant               
  applications by the Indian Health Service, Division of Grants Operation.            
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Project periods are for 3 years with 12-month budget periods.                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Grants will be awarded for project periods up to 3 years.

Reports:                                                                              
  The Progress Reports and Financial Status Reports are required annually. These      
  reports will include a brief comparison of actual accomplishments to the goals      
  established for the period, reasons for slippage (if applicable), and other

  pertinent information as required. Financial Status Reports (SF 269) annual         
  financial reports must be submitted within 30 days of the budget period. A Final

  Financial Status Reports (SF 269) are due within 90 days of expiration of the       
  budget/project period and must be verified from the grantee records on how the      
  value was derived. Grantees are allowed a reasonable period of time in which to     
  submit required financial and performance reports. Progress reports are required    
  on an annual basis.                                                                 
                                                                                      
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                     
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000    
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit            
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a       
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,    
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133, in addition, grantees are subject to site    
  visits and audits by the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) and         
  other Federal officials.                                                            
                                                                                      
Records:

  DHHS and the Comptroller General of the United States or any of their               
  authorized representatives shall have the right of access to any books,             
  documents, papers, or other records of a grantee, subgrantee, contractor, or        
  subcontractor, which are pertinent to the grant in order to make audit,             
  examinations, excerpts, and transcripts. In accordance with 45 CFR Parts 74 and     
                                                                                      
  92, grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records for 3 years after

                                                                                      
  the end of a budget period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other

                                                                                      
  action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year

                                                                                      
  period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and resolution

                                                                                      
  of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year period,

                                                                                      
  whichever is later.

                                                                                      
Account Identification:

                                                                                      
  75-0390-0-1-551.

                                                                                      
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $1,896,611; FY 08 $1,300,000; and FY 09 est not available.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  None. New Program.                                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Twenty grant awards were funded in fiscal year 2005. It is anticipated that 13      
  new grants will be awarded in fiscal year 2006, and it is anticipated that 13       
  continuing grants will be awarded in fiscal year 2007.                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
                                                                                      


                                                                                11-08 
  Regulations governing this program are published under the provisions of 45
  CFR Part 92 and the PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No.
  (OASH 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994. Guidelines are available in the
  application kit.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Ms. Alberta Becenti, Health Promotion/Disease Prevention
  Coordinator, Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, Suite 300,
  Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (301) 443-4305. Grants Management
  Contact: Ms. Kimberly Pendleton, Senior Grants Management Officer, Division
  of Grants Operations, Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, TMP,
  Suite 360, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (301) 443-5204.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ihs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Diabetes Prevention, (2) Obesity Prevention, Youth and Children, (3)
  Alcohol Intervention for Youth, (4) Physical Activity, (5) Women's Health, (6)
  Tobacco Prevention, and (6) Strengthen Families.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated in accordance with the criteria stated below for
  technical merit by appropriate peer review groups convened by the IHS Health
  Promotion/Disease Prevention Program. Applications will be reviewed and rated
  on the basis of the evaluation criteria listed for developing the project narrative:
  1) background and needs, 2) intervention plan, 3) plans for monitoring and
  program evaluation, 4) organizational capabilities and qualifications, and 5)
  communication and information sharing. Proposals will be reviewed for merit by
  the Objective Review Committee consisting of at least three federal and three
  nonfederal reviewers appointed by the IHS. The technical review process
  ensures the selection of quality projects in a national competition for limited
  funding. After review of the applications, rating scores will be compared, and
  the application with the highest rating score are selected to receive funding.
93.444 TRIBAL SELF-GOVERNANCE PROGRAM:
PLANNING AND NEGOTIATION COOPERATIVE
AGREEMENT
   (Tribal Self Governance)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-638, as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To make financial assistance awards to Indian tribes to enable them to assume
  programs, functions, services, and activities (PFSA) with respect to which Indian
  tribes or Indians are primary or significant beneficiaries, administered by the
  Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) through the Indian Health
  Service. In preparation for additional tribes each fiscal year, the IHS will make
  Planning Cooperative Agreements available. The Planning Cooperative
  Agreements allow Tribes to gather information to determine the current types
  and extent of PFSAs and funding levels available within its service areas and to
  plan for the types and extent of PFSAs and funding to be made available to the
  tribe under a compact. The IHS will also award Negotiation Cooperative
  Agreements which provide tribes with additional funding to negotiate Self-
  Governance Compacts.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Establishing and operating programs to provide planning and negotiation
  resources to tribes interested in participating in the Tribal Self-Governance
  Program (TSGP). These cooperative agreements will be awarded on a one-time
  basis.
Applicant Eligibility:
  For Planning Cooperative Agreements, any Federally-recognized tribe which (1)
  formally requests, through a governing body action, a Planning Cooperative
  Agreement for the purpose of preparing to enter the TSGP and (2) has furnished
  organization-wide single audit reports as prescribed by Public Law 96-502, the
  Single Audit Act of 1984, as amended, for the previous 3 years that contain no
  uncorrected significant and material audit exceptions. See OMB Circular No.
  A-133 (June 27, 2003). For Negotiation Cooperative Agreements, in addition to
  the two criteria listed above, applicants must have successfully completed the
  planning phase as described at 42 CFR 137.20.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Indian tribes will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                   1423
