  For planning, costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-        
  87 for State and Local Governments and Indian tribes and applicable grant            
  administration regulations 45 CFR Part 92.                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Preapplication coordination not applicable. This program is excluded from            
  coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  The preferred method for receipt of applications is electronic submission            
  through Grants.gov. However, should any technical problems arise regarding           
  the submission, please contact Grants.gov Customer Support at (1-800) 518-           
  4726 or support@grants.gov. The Contact Center hours of operation are                
  Monday-Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (Eastern Standard Time). If you            
  require additional assistance please contact Michelle G. Bulls, Grants Policy        
  Officer at (301) 443-6528 at least fifteen days prior to the application deadline.   
  To submit an application electronically, please use the http://www.Grants.gov        
  site. Download a copy of the application package, on the Grants.gov website,         
  complete it offline and then upload and submit the application via the               
  Grants.gov site. You may not e-mail an electronic copy of a grant application to     
  us.

Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Cooperative agreements are made directly by the IHS to the Indian tribal

  applicants, based on results of a competitive review process.

                                                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the Headquarters Office listed below for deadline dates.                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Within 45 days of IHS deadline.                                                      
Appeals:                                                                               
  Per 42 CFR 137.416, decisions relating to the award of Cooperative Agreements        
  may be appealed under 45 CFR Part 5.                                                 
Renewals:                                                                              
  There will not be renewals for the planning and negotiation awards.                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Duration of project period is for 12 months. Project period can be extended on a     
  no-cost basis.                                                                       
Reports:                                                                               
  Cooperative agreements are subject to administrative requirements under 45           
  CFR Part 92 for grants to Indian tribes.                                             
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 ($500,000 for       
  fiscal years ending after December 31, 2003) or more in Federal awards will          
  have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal        
  entities that expend less than $300,000 ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after      
  December 31, 2003) a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit            
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                   
Records:                                                                               
  DHHS and the Comptroller General of the United States, or any of their               
  authorized representatives, shall have the right to access any books, documents,     
  papers, or other records of a grantee, subgrantee, contractor, or subcontractor,     
  which are pertinent to the HHS award, in order to make audits, examinations,         
  excerpts and transcripts. Grantees are required to maintain accounting records 3     
  years after the end of the budget period of the award. If any litigation, claim,     
  negotiation, audit or other action involving the records shall be retained until     
  completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until  
  the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.                            
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0390-0-1-551.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $100,000; FY 08 $220,000; and FY 09 est $340,000.                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Typically over the last several years, Planning Cooperative Agreements have          
  been awarded for a maximum of $50,000 and Negotiation Cooperative                    
  Agreements for a maximum of $20,000.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In FY 2007, the IHS awarded two Planning Cooperative Agreements for a total

                                                                                       
  of $100,000. In FY 2008, IHS estimates that it will award four Planning and          
  one Negotiation Cooperative Agreement, for a total of $220,000 in award              
  funding.                                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  The Indian Self- Determination and Education Assistance Act, Public Law 93-

                                                                                       
  638, as amended, authorizes both the cooperative agreements. HHS Grants

                                                                                       
  Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000 (Rev. April 1,               
  1994), applies to the cooperative agreement awards.                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                       
  Program Contact: Ms. Hankie Ortiz, Director, Office of Tribal Self-Governance,

                                                                                       


1424                                                                             11-08

  Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, Suite 240, Rockville, MD 20852.
  Telephone: (301) 443-7821. Grants Management Contact: Ms. Kimberly
  Pendleton, Grants Management Officer, Division of Grants Operations, Indian
  Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, TMP, Suite 360, Rockville, MD 20852.
  Telephone: (301) 443-5204. Use the same numbers for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ihs.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The projects funded are the planning and negotiation activities associated with
  preparing to enter the TSGP.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For Planning Cooperative Agreements, the criteria are: Goals/Objectives;
  Methodology; Management of Health Program(s); Organizational Capabilities
  and Qualifications; and Budget Justification. For Negotiation Cooperative
  Agreements, the criteria are: Demonstration of Previous Planning Activities;
  Thoroughness of Approach, Project Outcome; and Administrative Capabilities.
93.448 FOOD SAFETY AND SECURITY MONITORING
PROJECT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of
  2002, Public Law 107-188.
OBJECTIVES:
  To complement, develop and improve State, Indian Tribal, and local food safety
  and security testing programs through the provision of supplies, personnel,
  facility upgrades, training in current food testing methodologies and
  participation in proficiency testing to establish additional reliable laboratory
  sample analysis capacity and analysis of surveillance samples. A new program
  will be included to complement, develop and improve State, Indian Tribal, and
  local food safety and security analyses of foods and food products related to
  radiological terrorism or other emergency situations through the provision of
  supplies, personnel, facility upgrades, training in current food testing
  methodologies, participation in proficiency testing to establish additional
  reliable laboratory sample analysis capacity, participation in method
  enhancement activities to extend analysis capability, and analysis of surveillance
  samples in the event of a large-scale radiological terrorism event affecting foods
  or food products.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Cooperative Agreements.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The grants and cooperative agreements are intended to expand participation in
  networks to enhance Federal, State, local and tribal food safety and security
  efforts. In addition to the promotion of a continuing, reliable capability and
  capacity for laboratory sample analyses of foods and food products for the rapid
  detection and identification of toxic chemicals, toxins or radiological terrorism
  affecting foods or food products. These funds cannot be used to fund or conduct
  food inspections for food safety regulatory agencies. They may not be used for
  new building construction, however remodeling of existing facilities is allowed,
  provided that remodeling costs do not exceed 25% of the grant.
Applicant Eligibility:
  These cooperative agreement and grants programs are only available to State,
  Local and Tribal government Food Emergency Response (FERN) laboratories.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Ultimately the general population will be the beneficiary of more rapid and
  reliable food testing to enhance food safety efforts. The FERN laboratory
  network will also benefit from better testing methods, equipment and training.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications must present a plan and furnish evidence that facilities, personnel
  and equipment are appropriate to carry out the plan. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and
  Executive Order 12372 as it applies.
Preapplication Coordination:
  These programs are eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the Single Point of Contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State has selected this program.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms and procedures as required by 45 CFR 72, and
  as outlined in the Request for Application (RFA) and/or the Funding
  Opportunity Announcement as published in the NIH Guide and as furnished by
  the FDA through grants.gov must be used for this program. All new and
  competing continuations or competing supplemental research grants must be
  submitted through Grants.gov. The application packages are posted under
