  "APPLY" section of this announcement under http:\\www.grants.gov.                    
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  All accepted applications receive a scientific review for technical merit and a      
  recommendation for approval by an appropriate initial ad hoc review group. All       
  approved and scored applications compete for available funds on the basis of         
  score, scientific merit and program analysis. Geographic distribution will be a      
  consideration in the award selection process.                                        
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Applications will be due no later than 30 days after publication in the Federal      
  Register and/or the NIH Guide.                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  90-120 days.                                                                         
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Renewals are available. Procedures are the same as for new applications.             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The length of support will depend on the nature of the project. For those            
  projects with an expected duration of more than 1 year, a 2nd or 3rd year of non-    
  competitive continuation of support will depend on: 1) performance during the        
  preceding year and, 2) availability of Federal funds.                                
Reports:                                                                               
  For continuing grants and cooperative agreements, quarterly reports or as            
  determined by the Project Officer, and an annual program progress report as well     
  as a final Financial Status Report is required.                                      
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June            
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that       
  year under the nonfederal audit requirement except as noted in Circular A-133."      
  In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspection and         
  audits by DHHS and other Federal government officials.                               
Records:                                                                               
  All grant and cooperative agreement documentation must be retained for 3 years       
  from the day on which the grantee submits the final financial status report for      
  the project period. Progress reports, expenditures and other financial records       
  must be retained for 3 years from the day on which the grantee submits the final     
  financial status report for the project period. Financial and programmatic           
  records, supporting documents, statistical records and all other records that are    
  required by the terms of the gran or may be considered pertinent to a grant must     
  be retained for 3 years from the date the grantee submits the final financial status

  report for the project period. See 45 CFR 74.53 and 92.42 for exceptions and

  qualification to the 3 year retention requirement. See 45 CFR 74.48 and 92.36        
  for record retention and access requirements for contracts under grants.             
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0600-0-1-554.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  For Food Safety and Security Monitoring Project for Chemical Analysis: FY 07         
  $2,333,495; and FY 08 est $2,403,500, and FY 09 est $2,500,000. For Food             
  Safety and Security Monitoring Project for Radiological Analysis: FY 07              
  $750,000; and FY 08 est $750,000 and FY 09 est $750,000.                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  An average of $350,000 total cost per award per year(direct plus indirect            
  combined) for up to 3 years.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  For the Food Safety and Security Monitoring Program for Chemical Analysis:           
  award of 8 cooperative agreements and supply of necessary equipment and              
  training to begin the analysis. Equipment is in place and training has been          
  accomplished. Labs have been involved in: participation in proficiency testing       
  for Food Emergency Response Network (FERN), participation in method                  
  development and method validation for food safety and food defense methods,          
  and participation in food defense surveillance assignments. The 8 Chemistry          
  Cooperative Agreement labs participated in the FDA's Pet Food surveillance           
  assignment. For the Food Safety and Security Monitoring Program for                  
  Radiological Analysis: award of 3 cooperative agreements, now starting second        
  year. Equipment has been purchased, and some minor remodeling of existing            
  facility is underway. Training has been accomplished, and method                     
  development/validation is ongoing. Two new Radiological Cooperative                  
  Agreements have been awarded, with funding started FY08. Equipment has               
  been ordered. Some initial training has occurred.                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  42 CFR Part 52-Grants for Research Projects; 45 CFR Part 74 - Uniform                
  Administrative Requirements for Awards and Subawards to Institutions of              
  Higher Education, Hospital, Other Nonprofit Organizations and Commercial             
  Organizations; and certain grants and agreements with States, Local                  
  Governments and Indian Tribal Governments; 45 CFR Part 92-Uniform                    
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State           


                                                                                 11-08 
  and Local Governments; the HHS Grants Policy Statement (most recent update)
  available at http://www.hhs.gov/grantsnet/adminis/gpd/index.htm; Executive
  Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs as implemented
  through 45 CFR Part 100-Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health
  and Human Services Programs and Activities.
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional and Local Office information will be provided in the application
  packet, if applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Jennifer Gabb, Division of Federal-State Relations,, Office of
  Regulatory Affairs (ORA), Food and Drug Administration, HFC-140, 5600
  Fishers Lane, Rm 1207, Rockville, MD 20857, Telephone: (301) 827-2899, E-
  mail: jennifer.gabb@fda.hhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fda.gov/ora/fed_state/default.htm; or http://www.grants.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  For Food Safety and Security Monitoring Project for Chemical Analysis:
  Virginia Food Safety and Security Monitoring Project; Minnesota Food Safety
  and Security Monitoring Project; Arizona Food Safety and Security Monitoring
  Project. For Food Safety and Security Monitoring Project for Radiological
  Analysis: Surge Capacity Program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All applications will be reviewed for responsiveness by the Grants Management
  staff and the Office of Regulatory Affairs (ORA). To be responsive, the
  application must be submitted in accordance with the requirements of the
  Federal Register Notice and/or NIH Guide. All responsive applications will be
  reviewed by an ad hoc committee. Each application will be scored and ranked
  based on the following criteria: a) adequacy of facilities, expertise of project
  staff, equipment, support services, commitment to analyze surveillance samples,
  and quality management practices needed for the project; b) expertise in the use
  of gas chromatography/mass spectrometry for the analysis of foods or animal
  tissues; c) expertise in the use of liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry for
  the analysis of foods or animal tissues; d) expertise in the use of inductively
  coupled plasma/mass spectrometry for the analysis of foods or animal tissues; e)
  expertise in the use of ELISA and other antibody based analyses for the
  identification of toxins in foods or animal tissues; f) current food or animal
  tissue analysis programs; g) the rationale and design to meet the goals of the
  cooperative agreement; h) quality control and quality assurance procedures and
  practices; i) abilities and procedures in place to recall personnel, establish
  extended work-weeks. All funding decisions will be made by the Commissioner
  of Food and Drug Administration or his designee.
93.449 RUMINANT FEED BAN SUPPORT PROJECT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND DRUG ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of
  2002, Public Law 107-188.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist in an increased surveillance presence throughout the commercial feed
  channels to prevent the introduction or amplification of Bovine Spongiform
  Encephalopathy (BSE) in the United States.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Cooperative Agreements.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are awarded to eligible institutions in the name of the principal
  investigator for a discrete project. Funds are to be used for location and
  visitation of firms involved in the manufacture, distribution and transportation
  of animal feed, and operations feeding ruminant animals in their jurisdiction, to
  verify compliance with the ruminant feed ban. Visitations could include annual
  inspections of renderers, protein blenders and feed mills that manufacture animal
  feeds and feed ingredients utilizing materials prohibited under the ruminant feed
  ban that are not covered under existing FDA contracts and other agreements.
  Funds can be used for inspections of salvagers of food and feed, and transporters
  of animal feed and feed ingredients, supplies, training, laboratory equipment for
  feed sample testing, and as a supplement to the annual State program
  appropriations. Funds may not be used to replace annual State program funds
  for these purposes.
Applicant Eligibility:
  This cooperative agreement program is only available to State and Tribal
  Feed/BSE regulatory programs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The general public, State and Tribal Feed/BSE regulatory programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications must present a plan and furnish evidence that facilities, personnel
  and equipment are appropriate to carry out the plan. Costs will be determined in
                                                                                1425
