  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and           
  Executive Order 12372 as it applies.                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her state for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program.                                                     
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The standard application forms noted in the Request for Application (RFA) and       
  or the Funding Opportunity Announcement published in the NIH Guide and as           
  provided by the FDA through grants.gov, and as required by 45 CFR 72 must be        
  used for this program. All applicants must complete the required forms through      
  grants.gov for new competing continuations or competing supplemental research       
  grants. The application packages are posted under the "APPLY" section of this       
  announcement under http://www.grants.gov.                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  All accepted applications receive a scientific review for technical merit and a     
  recommnedation for approval by an appropriate initial ad hoc review group. All      
  approved and scored applications compete for available funds on the basis of        
  score, scientific merit and program analysis. Geographic distribution will be a     
  consideration in the award selection process.                                       
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Applications will be due no later than 30 days after publication in the Federal     
  Register and/or NIH Guide.                                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Approximately 90 to 120 days.                                                       
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals are available. Procedures are the same as for new applications.            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The length of support will depend on the nature of the projects. For those          
  projects with an expected duration of more than 1 year, a 2nd or 3rd year of non-   
  comptetive continuation of support will depend on 1) performance during the         
  preceeding year and 2) availability of Federal funds.

Reports:

  For continuing grants and cooperative agreements, an annual program progress        
  report and an annual Financial Status Report as well as final program progress      
  report are required. Final program progress reports and Financial Status reports    
  are required.                                                                       
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (e.g. most recent       
  revision), "Audits of States, Local Governments and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that      
  year except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative     
  agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal           
  government officials.                                                               
Records:                                                                              
  All cooperative agreement documentation must be retained for 3 years from the       
  day on which the grantee submits the final financial status report for the project  
  period. Progress reports, expenditures and other financial records must be          
  retained for 3 years from the day on which the grantee submits the final financial  
  status report for the project period. Financial and programmatic records,           
  supporting documents, statistical records and all other records that are required   
  by the terms of the grant or may be considered pertinent to a grant must be         
  retained for 3 years from the date the grantee submits the final financial status   
  report for the report period. See 45 CFR 74.53 and 92.42 for exceptions and         
  qualification to the 3 year retention requirement. See 45 CFR 74.48 and 92.36       
  for record retention and access requirements for contracts under grants.            
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0600-0-1-554.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $2,000,000; FY 08 est $2,000,000; and FY 09 est. $2,000,000.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  An average of $250,000 total cost per award (direct and indirect) for up to 3       
  years.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Enhancement of government infrastructure of animal feed safety and bovine           
  spongiform encephalopathy prevention programs.                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  42 CFR Part 52-Grants for Research Projects; 45 CFR Part 74 - Uniform               
  Administrative Requirements for Awards and Subawards to Institutions of             
  Higher Education, Hospital, Other Nonprofit Organizations and Commercial            
  Organizations; and certain grants and agreements with States, Local                 
  Governments and Indian Tribal Governments; 45 CFR Part 92-Uniform                   
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State          


1426                                                                            11-08

  and Local Governments; the HHS Grants Policy Statement (most recent
  revision); Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs as implemented through 45 CFR Part 100--Intergovernmental Review
  of Department of Health and Human Services Programs and Activities.
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional office information will be provided in the application packet, if
  applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Jennifer Gabb, Division of Federal-State Relations, Office of Regulatory Affairs,
  HFC-150, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 1207, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:
  (301) 827-2899; E-mail: jennifer.gabb@fda.hhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.grants.gov/ or http://www.fda.gov/ora/fed_state/default.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Florida Ruminant Feed Ban Enhancement Project; Nebraska Ruminant Feed
  Ban Support Project; Office of the Texas State Chemist BSE Prevention
  Program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All applications will be reviewed for responsiveness by the Grants Management
  Staff and the Office of Regulatory Affairs (ORA). To be responsive, the
  application must be submitted in accordance with the requirements of the
  Federal Register and/or NIH Guide notice. All responsive applications will be
  reviewed by an ad hoc committee. Each application will be scored and ranked
  based on the following criteria 1) availability of adequately trained staff; 2)
  detailed description of current feed regulatory program; 3) properly detailed
  budget that is intended to supplement State or Tribal appropriations; 4) accurate
  count of all feed facilities, etc., in the State or Tribal nation; 5) detailed
  description of how inspections are to be performed; 6) detailed descriptions of
  how current, non-inspected facilities will be identified and added to the State's
  inspection responsibilities: 7) ability to satisfy the reporting requirements; 8)
  provision of current funding level certification; 9) detailed methodology for
  program improvement; 10) justification for hiring new staff; and 11) detailed
  description of the enforcement of violative facilities; under the cooperative
  agreement all funding will be made by the Commissioner of the Food and Drug
  Administration or his designee.
93.550 TRANSITIONAL LIVING FOR HOMELESS YOUTH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Runaway and Homeless Youth Act (Title III of the Junvenile Justice and
  Delinquency Prevention Act of 1974), as amended by the Runaway, Homeless,
  and Missing Children Protection Act of 2003, Public Law 108-96 under Part B.
  Text of this legislation can be located at
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/fysb/content/aboutfysb/RHYComp.pdf.
OBJECTIVES:
  The overall purpose of the Transitional Living Program (TLP) for Homeless
  Youth and the Maternity Group Homes (MGH) is to establish and operate
  transitional living projects for homeless youth, including pregnant and parenting
  youth. This program is structured to help older homeless youth achieve self-
  sufficiency and avoid long-term dependency on social services. Transitional
  living projects provide shelter, skills training, and support services to homeless
  youth, including pregnant and parenting youth, ages 16 through 21 for a
  continuous period not exceeding 18 months. Youth who are under the age of 18
  years at the completion of 18 months can remain in the program for either an
  additional 180 days or until the youth turns 18, whichever occurs first. MGHs
  provide the same services as the TLP in addition to providing parenting
  instructions and child care. Other services that are offered include, but are not
  limited to, transportation, family planning, abstinence education and pregnancy
  prevention services.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Transitional Living Programs are required to provide youth with stable, safe
  living accommodations and services that help them develop the skills necessary
  to move to independence. Living accommodations may be host family homes,
  group homes, Maternity Group Homes, or "supervised apartments." (Supervised
  apartments are either agency-owned apartment buildings or "scattered site"
  apartments, which are single-occupancy apartments rented directly by young
  people with support from the agency.) Eligible applicants include States,
  localities, private entities, and coordinated networks of such entities unless they
  are part of the law enforcement structure or the juvenile justice system.
  Federally recognized Indian organizations are also eligible to apply for grants as
  private, nonprofit agencies. Indian Tribes that are not federally recognized and
  urban Indian organizations are also eligible to apply for grants as private,
  nonprofit agencies. Faith-based organizations and small community-based
