  decision will be made by Commissioner, ACYF.                                          
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Application deadlines can be obtained via www at                                      
  http://www.ACF.HHS.gov/grants/index.html.                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  From 60 to 180 days.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Grantees are required to show in the cost of the project a minimum cost sharing       
  of 10 percent of the total project cost.                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Grants will be made for a period up to 48 months.                                     
Reports:                                                                                
  Financial reports are required semi-annually; program progress reports are            
  required semi-annually; a final report and an expenditure report are required no      
  later than 90 days after the completion of the project.                               
Audits:                                                                                 
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.         
Records:                                                                                
  Records must be maintained for 3 years.                                               
Account Identification:                                                                 
  75-1536-0-1-506.                                                                      
Obligations:

                                                                                        
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $11,835,000; FY 08 $11,628,000; and FY 09 est

                                                                                        
  $11,628,000.

                                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                        
  The range of award amounts is from $218,996 to $475,000; The average award

                                                                                        
  is $475,000.

                                                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                        
  In fiscal year 2007 there were 31 grant awards. In FY 2008 there will be 23

                                                                                        
  grants awarded. In FY 2009 there will be approximately 23 grants awarded.

                                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                        
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for available literature.

                                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:

  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Children's Bureau, 1250 Maryland Avenue, S.W., 8th Floor, Washington, DC              
  20024. Contact: Patricia Campiglia; Telephone: (202) 205-8060.                        
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/cb.                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Demonstration projects designed to prevent the abandonment of drug-affected           
  and HIV positive infants and young children; to maintain family stability and to      
  reunify and strengthen families impacted by substance abuse and HIV/AIDS;             
  service demonstration projects designed to provide comprehensive, coordinated         
  and community-based social support services to clients in a location accessible       
  to the target population; to provide support for family caregivers, and provide       
  therapeutic services in a recreational setting for HIV-infected or affected           
  children and young people.                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Contact Headquarters Office for specific criteria.                                    
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
93.556 PROMOTING SAFE AND STABLE FAMILIES                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                               
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Social Security Act, as amended, Title IV, Part B, Subpart 2; Omnibus Budget          
  Reconciliation Act of 1993; Public Law 103-66; Social Security Amendments of          
  1994, Public Law 103-432; Adoption and Safe Families Act of 1997, Public              
  Law 105-89; Promoting Safe and Stable Families Amendments of 2001, Public             
  Law 107-133.                                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To fund family preservation that serve families at risk or in crisis, including the   
  following services: reunification and adoption services, preplacement/preventive      
  services, follow-up services after return of a child from foster care, respite care,  
  services designed to improve parenting skills; and infant safe haven programs; to     
  fund community-based family support services that promote the safety and well-        
  being of children and families, to afford children a safe, stable and supportive      
  family environment, to strengthen parental relationships and promote healthy          
  marriages, and otherwise to enhance child development; to fund time-limited           
  family reunification services to facilitate the reunification of the child safely and 
  appropriately within a timely fashion; and to fund adoption promotion and             
  support services designed to encourage more adoptions out of the foster care          
  system, when adoption, promotes the best interests of the child. In addition, a       


1428                                                                              11-08

  portion of funds also is reserved in FY 2008 - FY 2011 for a separate formula
  grant for States and territories to support monthly caseworker visits with
  children who are in foster care. A small proportion of appropriated funds is
  reserved for research, evaluation and technical assistance, which may be
  awarded competitively through contracts or discretionary grants.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants (Discretionary).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  For the main Promoting Safe and Stable Families Formula Grants, a significant
  portion of funds must be spent on each of the service categories of family
  preservation, family support services, time-limited family reunification services
  and adoption promotion and support services. State grantees must limit
  administrative expenditures to 10 percent of their allotment. Caseworker visit
  formula grants: States and territories are required to spend funds to support
  monthly caseworker visits with children in foster care with a primary emphasis
  on activities designed to improve caseworker retention, recruitment, training and
  ability to access the benefits of technology. Discretionary Grants: Grants are
  awarded for research, evaluation and technical assistance activities relating to
  family support, family preservation, time-limited family reunification and
  adoption promotion support.
Applicant Eligibility:
  (1) Formula Grants: States, territories and certain Indian Tribes are eligible
  applicants. For caseworker visit funds, only States and territories are eligible
  applicants. (2) Discretionary Grants: States, local governments, tribes, public
  agencies or private agencies or organizations (or combinations of such agencies
  or organizations) with expertise in providing, evaluating and/or providing
  technical assistance related to family preservation, family support, time-limited
  family reunification and adoption promotion and support.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Families and children who need services to assist them to stabilize their lives,
  strengthen family functioning, prevent out-of-home placement of children,
  enhance child development and increase competence in parenting abilities,
  facilitate timely reunification of the child, and promote appropriate adoptions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Formula Grants: The State agency which administers the social services program
  under Title XX of the Social Security Act (Social Services Block Grant) must
  also be the agency which administers the Title IV-B programs. Discretionary
  Grants: Nonprofit agencies must submit proof of nonprofit status. Applicable
  costs and administrative procedures will be determined in accordance with parts
  74 and 92 of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  (1) Formula Grants: Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372. (2)Discretionary Grants Standard application forms as
  furnished by DHHS must be used for this program. This program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program
  for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application Procedure (1) Formula Grants: A 5-year State plan must be
  submitted. The plan must be jointly developed by the Secretary and the State or
  Indian Tribe and written after consultation by the agency with appropriate public
  and non-profit private agencies and community-based organizations. The plan
  must coordinate the provision of services under Title IV-B with services under
  other Federal or federally-assisted programs serving the same populations. (2)
  Discretionary Grants: Announcement of availability of funds is published in the
  Federal Register. Eligible applicants submit applications by specified deadlines.
Award Procedure:
  (1) Formula Grants: Funds will be approved after the State plan, or annual
  update is submitted and approved.(2) Discretionary Grants: Grant applications
  are reviewed by a panel of nonfederal professionals with expertise in child and
  family services, evaluation and related fields. Final decisions are made by the
  Commissioner, Administration for Children, Youth, and Families (ACYF).
  Contract proposals are reviewed by a panel of Federal Staff.
Deadlines:
  (1) Formula Grants: States, Territories and Indian Tribes are encouraged to
  submit applications in accordance with Departmental requirements. Contact
  Headquarters Office listed below for information. (2) Discretionary Grants:
  Deadlines change from year to year. Each program announcement provides
  specific deadline information. See www.grants.gov for announcement details.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Range of Approval/Disapproval Time (1) Formula Grants: The State plan or its
  annual update is due June 30 of each year. Approval/disapproval is due
  September 30 of each year. (2) Discretionary Grants: From 3 to 6 months.
Appeals:
  Appeals are processed in accordance with Departmental regulations at 45 CFR
  16.
Renewals:
  None.
