Account Identification:                                                              
  75-1536-0-1-506.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $15,024,000; FY 08 $17,221,000; and FY 09 est $17,221,000.          
  (Contracts) FY 07 $1,118,000; FY 08 $1,582,000; and FY 09 est $1,572,000.          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $100,000 to $200,000 per budget period; $100,000.                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal year 2007, 136 grants were awarded. It is anticipated that 156 grants    
  will be awarded in fiscal years 2008 and 2009.                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for available literature. You may also    
  get information on the Family and Youth Services website at the following          
  address http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/fysb under the "Policy and Legislative     
  Documents" link. Information is also available through the National                
  Clearinghouse on Families and Youth, 5515 Security Lane Suite 800 North            
  Bethesda, MD 20852. Telephone: (301) 608-8098. Fax: (301) 608- 8721. The           
  National Clearinghouse on Families and Youth website address is                    
  http://www.http://ncfy.acf.hhs.gov and general email address is info@ncfy.com.     
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Contact: Administration for Children and Family, Family and Youth Services         
  Bureau, Division of Youth Services. (See Appendix IV of this Catalog for the       
  addresses of the Regional Offices.)                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Acting Associate Commissioner, Family and Youth Services Bureau,                   
  Administration for Children and Families, 1250 Maryland Avenue, S.W.,              
  Washington, DC 20447. Contact: Curtis Porter; Telephone: (202) 205-8306.           
  Use the same number for FTS.                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/fysb.                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.623, Basic Center Grant; 93.550, Transitional Living for Homeless Youth.        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  In fiscal year 2007, 136 projects provided services for street-based education and 
  outreach, emergency shelter, survival aid, individual assessment, treatment and    
  counseling prevention and education activities, information and referral, crisis   
  intervention, and follow-up support. It is anticipated that 156 grants will be     
  awarded in fiscal years 2008 and 2009.                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applications will be evaluated based upon the criteria published in the Funding    
  Opportunity Announcement located on the following website address:                 
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/grants/grants_fysb.html. Organizations with experience      
  in providing services to homeless youth are given priority.                        
                                                                                     
93.558 TEMPORARY ASSISTANCE FOR NEEDY FAMILIES                                       
                                                                                     
   (TANF)                                                                            
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF

                                                                                     
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Social Security Act, Title IV, Part A, as amended; Personal Responsibility and

                                                                                     
  Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, Public Law 104-193; Balanced

                                                                                     
  Budget Act of 1997, Public Law 105-33; Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (DRA),

                                                                                     
  Public Law 109-171.

                                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                     
  To provide grants to States, Territories, the District of Columbia and federally

                                                                                     
  recognized Indian Tribes operating their own Tribal TANF programs to assist

                                                                                     
  needy families with children so that children can be cared for in their own

                                                                                     
  homes; to reduce dependency by promoting job preparation, work, and marriage;

                                                                                     
  to reduce and prevent out-of-wedlock pregnancies; and to encourage the

                                                                                     
  formation and maintenance of two-parent families.                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.

                                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                     
  States (including the District of Columbia), Territories, or and Federally-

                                                                                     
  recognized Indian Tribes operating their own TANF programs have broad

                                                                                     
  flexibility to use the grant funds in any manner that meets the purposes of the

                                                                                     
  program (including providing low-income households with assistance in meeting

                                                                                     
  home heating and cooling costs) and in ways that the State, Territory, and Tribe

                                                                                     
  was authorized to use funds received under the predecessor Aid to Families with

                                                                                     
  Dependent Children (AFDC), Job Opportunities and Basic Skills Training

                                                                                     
  (JOBS), and Emergency Assistance (EA) programs. States and Territories may

                                                                                     
  also transfer a limited portion of their assistance grant funds to the Child Care

                                                                                     
  and Development Block Grant (CCDBG) and Social Services Block Grant

                                                                                     
  (SSBG) Programs. Not more than 15 percent of any State grant may be spent on

                                                                                     
  administrative costs, exclusive of certain computerization and information

                                                                                     
  technology expenses. Cash grants, work opportunities, and other services are

                                                                                     
  made directly to needy families with children. For Tribal programs, ACF will

                                                                                     


1430                                                                           11-08

  negotiate a limitation on administrative costs for the first year of the program's
  operation not to exceed 35 percent, for the second year of the program's
  operation not to exceed 30 percent, and then for the third and subsequent years
  of the program's operation not to exceed 25 percent.
Applicant Eligibility:
  In general, all States, Territories, the District of Columbia, and all federally-
  recognized Tribes in the lower 48 States and 13 specified entities in Alaska are
  eligible. State and local agencies and Tribes that operate TANF programs must
  do so under plans determined to be complete or approved by the Department of
  Health and Human Services (DHHS). For Contingency Funds, all States and the
  District of Columbia are eligible if they are determined to be a "needy State" by
  satisfying either an unemployment trigger or a food stamp trigger. Territories
  and Tribes are not eligible for Contingency Funds.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Needy families with children, as determined eligible by the State, Territory, or
  Tribe in accordance with the State or Tribal plan submitted to the Department of
  Health and Human Services (HHS).
Credentials/Documentation:
  Federal funds go to the State, Territory, or Tribal agency certified by the Chief
  Executive Officer. Needy families must meet State or Tribal eligibility
  requirements.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Each State and Territory must develop a State plan. Applicants must consult
  with local governments and private organizations and provide them 45 days to
  comment on the plan. Tribes may apply to the Secretary to receive funds and to
  administer the TANF block grant. Tribes would submit a 3-year family
  assistance plan. The Secretary, in consultation with the Tribe, would set program
  requirements and time-limits for receipt of welfare-related services, consistent
  with the purposes of the program and economic conditions/resources of each
  tribe. Tribes should contact the OFA Regional TANF Program Manager for
  Tribal plan submittal procedures. For Contingency Funds, each State must
  request these funds monthly for each month they meet either the unemployment
  or food stamp triggers. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Each State plan, including the certifications signed by the Executive Officer
  (Governor), must be submitted to the Secretary of HHS. Tribes should contact
  the OFA Regional TANF Program Manager for Tribal plan submittal
  procedures. For Contingency Funds, each State must request these funds
  monthly for each month they meet either the unemployment or food stamp
  triggers.
Award Procedure:
  Once a plan is determined complete, or in the case of a Tribe the plan is
  approved, by the DHHS, Family Assistance Grants are awarded in quarterly
  payments. Contingency Fund awards will be made monthly.
Deadlines:
  Please contact program office for application deadline. Tribal programs do not
  face a specific application deadline. For Contingency Funds, requests must be
  submitted 15 days after eligibility has been determined.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  States, Territories, and Tribes implement their assistance programs according to
  their State and Tribal plans. The Secretary does not have authority to approve or
  disapprove a State plan, only to determine its completeness. Tribal plans are
  subject to approval by the Secretary. For Contingency Funds,
  approval/disapproval will be from 30 to 60 days after receipt of the request for
  funds.
Appeals:
  States, Territories, and Tribes facing an adverse action by the Secretary may
  appeal under both administrative and judicial procedures. States and Tribes must
  provide opportunities for recipients who have been adversely affected to be
  heard in a State and Tribal administrative or appeal process.
Renewals:
  States and Territories must periodically (every 2 or 3 years) renew their funding
  status by submitting their TANF plan. Tribes must renew their funding status
  every 3 years. For Contingency Funds, requests for additional funding must be
  made monthly.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The TANF block grant program has an annual cost-sharing requirement known
  as "maintenance-of-effort" (MOE). This basically means that every fiscal year,
  each State receiving Federal TANF funds must spend an applicable percentage
  of its own money to help eligible families in ways that are consistent with the
  purposes of the TANF program. The applicable percentage depends on whether
  the State meets the minimum work participation rate requirements for that fiscal
  year. If the State does not meet the work participation rates, then it must spend
  80 percent of the amount it spent for fiscal year 1994 on AFDC and AFDC-
  related programs. If the State meets the work participation rates, then the
  applicable percentage is 75 percent of the amount it spent for fiscal year 1994 on
  AFDC and AFDC-related programs. Tribes that receive Federal TANF funds to
  operate their own approved Tribal TANF program have no matching or
  maintenance-of-effort requirement. In addition to the TANF funds States
