  In FY 07, the nine (9) voluntary agencies continued to serve refugees eligible for 
  the Matching Grant program and are expected to continue through FY 2008 and        
  FY 2009.                                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  All inquiries should be directed to the Information Contact listed below.          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Ron Munia, Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and         
  Families, Department of Health and Human Services, 8th Floor, West, 370            
  L'Enfant Promenade, S.W., Washington, DC 20447. Telephone: (202) 401-              
  4559.                                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/orr.                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.566, Refugee and Entrant Assistance_State Administered Programs; 93.576,        
  Refugee and Entrant Assistance_Discretionary Grants; 93.584, Refugee and           
  Entrant Assistance_Targeted Assistance Grants.                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  In FY 2007, the nine voluntary agencies (volags) continued to serve match grant    
  refugees in approximately 230 match grant sites nationwide.                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Matching grant awards are made on the basis of the evaluation criteria in the      
  notice of funding availability.                                                    
                                                                                     
93.568 LOW-INCOME HOME ENERGY ASSISTANCE                                             
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                            
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Low Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981, Title XXVI of the Omnibus

                                                                                     
  Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, as amended; Energy Policy Act of 2005           
  Public Law 109-58.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To make Low Income Home Energy Assistance Program (LIHEAP) grants

                                                                                     
  available to States and other jurisdictions to assist eligible households to meet

                                                                                     
  the costs of home energy. Supplemental Leveraging Incentive Funds may be

                                                                                     
  awarded to reward States and other jurisdictions that provide additional benefits

                                                                                     
  and services to LIHEAP-eligible households beyond what could be provided

                                                                                     
  with Federal funds. Up to 25 percent of the leveraging incentive funds may be

                                                                                     
  set aside for LIHEAP grantees that provide services through community-based

                                                                                     
  nonprofit organizations to help LIHEAP-eligible households reduce their energy

                                                                                     
  vulnerability under the Residential Energy Assistance Challenge Program            
  (REACH). Training and Technical Assistance: To provide training and technical      
  assistance to States and other jurisdictions administering the LIHEAP block        
  grant program.                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.

                                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                     
  Energy Assistance Block Grants: Funds are awarded to States and other

                                                                                     
  jurisdictions, which then make payments directly to an eligible low-income

                                                                                     
  household or, on behalf of such household, to an energy supplier to assist in

                                                                                     
  meeting the cost of home energy. Up to 10 percent of these funds may be used

                                                                                     
  for State and local planning and administration. Up to 15 percent may be used

                                                                                     
  for low-cost residential weatherization. Grantees may request that DHHS grant a

                                                                                     
  waiver for the fiscal year that increases from 15 percent to 25 percent funds that

                                                                                     
  can be allotted for residential weatherization. Depending upon specific

                                                                                     
  appropriations, DHHS may allocate supplemental LIHEAP leveraging incentive

                                                                                     
  funds to grantees that have acquired nonfederal leveraged resources in order to

                                                                                     
  provide additional benefits and services to LIHEAP-eligible households to help

                                                                                     
  them meet their home heating and cooling needs. Up to 25 percent of leveraging

                                                                                     
  incentive funds may be allocated by DHHS to LIHEAP grantees that provide

                                                                                     
  services through community-based nonprofit organizations to LIHEAP-eligible

                                                                                     
  households to reduce their energy vulnerability, under the Residential Energy

                                                                                     
  Assistance Challenge Program (REACH). Up to $600,000,000 is authorized as

                                                                                     
  emergency contingency funds to be used to meet additional needs arising from a

                                                                                     
  natural disaster or other emergency. Such funds will be made available only

                                                                                     
  after submission to Congress of a formal budget request for all or part of the

                                                                                     
  funds by the President that designates the amount of the request as an emergency

                                                                                     
  under the Balanced Budget and Emergency Deficit Control Act of 1985.

                                                                                     
  Training and Technical Assistance: the Secretary has authority to set aside up to

                                                                                     
  $300,000 from each year's appropriation for training and technical assistance

                                                                                     
  relating to the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Program. These T/TA

                                                                                     
  activities are accomplished through: grants, contracts, or jointly financed

                                                                                     
  cooperative or interagency agreements with States, Indian tribes, tribal

                                                                                     
  organizations, public agencies, or private nonprofit organizations; through

                                                                                     
  interagency agreements, including with Federal agencies; or through on-site        
  compliance reviews of LIHEAP grantees. The nature of and amount awarded for        
  training and technical assistance vary from year to year.                          


1436                                                                           11-08

Applicant Eligibility:
  Energy Assistance Block Grants: All States, the District of Columbia, federally-
  and State-recognized Indian Tribal governments which request direct funding,
  and specified Territories may receive direct grants. The prospective grantee
  must submit an annual application. Grantees desiring leveraging incentive funds
  and REACH funds must submit special applications each year. Instructions will
  be issued if emergency contingency funds are released. Training and Technical
  Assistance: States, Indian tribes or tribal organizations, Territories, public
  agencies, and private nonprofit organizations may apply. Nothing in the statute
  precludes a business concern that applies jointly with a private nonprofit
  organization from receiving a training and technical assistance grant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Energy Assistance Block Grants: All States, the District of Columbia, federally-
  and State-recognized Indian Tribal governments that request direct funding, and
  specified Territories may provide assistance to households with incomes up to
  the greater of 150 percent of the poverty level or 60 percent of the State median
  income. Grantees may establish lower income eligibility levels, but they may
  not set the limit below 110 percent of the poverty level. Training and Technical
  Assistance: States, Indian tribes or tribal organizations, Territories, public
  agencies, and private nonprofit organizations may apply. Nothing in the Statute
  precludes a business concern that applies jointly with a private nonprofit
  organization from receiving a training and technical assistance grant.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Energy Assistance Block Grants: The chief executive officer of the State, Tribe
  or Territory or his designee must certify to 16 assurances required by law.
  Households must meet beneficiary eligibility requirements. Grantees desiring
  leveraging incentive funds or REACH funds must submit annual applications.
  Instructions will be issued if emergency contingency funds are released. This
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87. Training and
  Technical Assistance: Requirements vary and are at
  www.grants.gov,www.fedbizopps.gov.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Energy Assistance Block Grants: Requirements for applications are set forth in
  Section 2605 of the authorization. There is no required format for applications
  but a model plan application is available. Prospective grantees may contact the
  Office of Community Services Headquarters Office for assistance. (See
  Information Contacts below.) Prospective grantees for leveraging incentive
  funds or REACH funds must submit applications in a format prescribed by
  HHS. Instructions will be issued if emergency contingency funds are released.
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. Training and
  Technical Assistance: Requirements that apply to each request for proposals
  vary and are at www.grants.gov, www.fedbizopps.gov.
Application Procedure:
  Energy Assistance Block Grants: Applications are submitted by the chief
  executive officer of a State, Indian Tribe (recognized by the Federal government
  or a State government), tribal organization, or Territory, or his designee.
  Applications contain assurances prescribed by law and a plan describing how
  certain assurances will be carried out, and other information specified by law.
  Separate applications are required to qualify for leveraging incentive funds and
  REACH funds. Instructions will be issued if emergency contingency funds are
  released. Households wishing to apply for benefits should contact the local
  welfare agency or community action agency for information regarding the
  agency administering the program in their jurisdiction. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110. Training
  and Technical Assistance: Requirements that apply to each request for proposals
  vary and are at www.grants.gov, www.fedbizopps.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Energy Assistance Block Grants: Grants are made upon receipt of a complete
  application by the Office of Community Services Headquarters Office.
  Leveraging incentive funds and REACH funds will be awarded based on
  applications submitted by grantees. Instructions will be issued if emergency
  contingency funds are released. Training and Technical Assistance: Procedures
  that apply to each request for proposals vary and are at
  www.grants.gov,www.fedzopps.gov.
Deadlines:
  Energy Assistance Block Grants: States and Territories must submit their
  applications by September 1, prior to the fiscal year for which funds are sought,
  unless the Department agrees to a later date. Tribal applications must also be
  submitted by September 1, prior to the fiscal year for which the funds are
  sought, unless the State in which a tribe is located agrees to a later date. All
  applications must be completed by December 15, of the fiscal year for which
  funds are sought, unless the Department (in the case of States and Territories) or
  the State (in the case of tribal grantees) agrees to a later date. Leveraging
  incentive fund reports are due by November 30 of each year. Contact
  Headquarters Office listed below for further information. www.grants.gov,
  www.fedbizopps.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Energy Assistance Block Grants: The Department reviews plans for
  completeness and will act on the plans submitted as quickly as possible.
  Leveraging incentive and REACH applications will be reviewed and acted upon
