Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The Secretary is authorized to make grants to States. This includes each of the     
  50 States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam,         
  the Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern            
  Mariana Islands. The Secretary also provides assistance directly to the governing   
  body of an Indian Tribe or Tribal organization upon application by the tribe.       
  Only State-recognized tribes, as evidenced by a statement to that effect by the     
  Governor, or tribes formally recognized by the Secretary of the Interior, under     
  the procedure for such recognition in 25 CFR 54, are eligible to receive direct     
  grants.                                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  States make grants to qualified locally-based nonprofit community antipoverty       
  agencies and other eligible entities which provide services to low-income           
  individuals and families. The official poverty line, as established by the          
  Secretary of Health and Human Services, is used as a criterion of eligibility in    
  the Community Services Block Grant program. When a State determines that it         
  serves the objectives of the block grant, it may revise the income limit, not to    
  exceed 125 percent of the official poverty line.                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Each State desiring to receive an allotment for a fiscal year is required to submit 
  an application to the Secretary of Health and Human Services (HHS). Each            
  application must contain assurances by the appropriate State designee that the      
  State will comply with Section 676 of the Community Services Block Grant Act        
  and also meet conditions enumerated in Sections 678(B-D). The State is              
  required to hold at least one legislative hearing every three years in conjunction  
  with the development of the State Plan (Section 676(a)(3). States are also          
  required to conducts public hearings on the proposed use and distribution of        
  funds to be provided under the Act. The latter sets forth the general purpose for   
  which funds will be used, restrictions on administrative expenses, eligible         
  recipients, board requirements for community action agencies and other              
  nonprofit organizations, fiscal control, monitoring, and Federal investigation      
  provisions, coordination between antipoverty programs in each community and         
  certain prohibitions on political activities. The Chief Executive Officer of each   
  State is also required to designate a lead agency to prepare and submit a plan to   
  the Secretary of HHS describing how the State will carry out the assurances in      
  Section 676. This program is excluded from coverage under 45 CFR, Part 1050.        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  HHS determines the amount of funds to be allocated as block grants to each          
  State in accordance with the formula set forth in the Community Services Block      
  Grant Act. The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has the authority to           
  apportion to the HHS through the course of a year the Congressional                 
  appropriation for block grants. Consistent with OMB's apportionment of funds,       
  HHS will assign allotments to the States through individual awards or a series of   
  awards, normally on a quarterly basis.                                              
Deadlines:                                                                            
  The application deadline for States and Indian Tribes and Tribal Organizations is   
  September 1 of each fiscal year.                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  Funds may be withheld from any State which does not utilize its allotment           
  substantially in accordance with the provisions of the Community Services           
  Block Grant Act and the assurances provided in its application. This may be         
  done only after adequate notice and an opportunity for a hearing is conducted       
  within the affected State.                                                          
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, Public Law 97-35 as amended by

  the Human Services Amendments of 1998, Public Law 105-285, Section 674              
  authorizes the Secretary to use one and one-half of one percent of the amount       
  appropriated to be reserved for corrective action, training, technical assistance,

  planning, evaluation, and data collection activities related to programs or         
  projects carried out under this subtitle. Such activities may be carried out        
  through grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements with eligible entities or with

  organizations or associations whose membership is composed of eligible entities     
  or agencies that administer programs for eligible entities. One-half of one         
  percent of the amount appropriated is apportioned on the basis of need among        
  Guam, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands, the Northern and Mariana Islands.         
  Of the remaining amount each State, (excluding the above, but including the         
  District of Columbia and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico) is allotted an            
  amount which bears the same ratio as the amount received by the State for fiscal    
  year 1981 under Section 221 of the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964 bore to         
  the total amount received by all States for fiscal year 1981 under Section 221.     
  However, if the appropriation exceeds $345,000,000 after the amount necessary       
  for purposes of discretionary funding under 680 and the one-half of one percent     


1438                                                                            11-08

  set aside for territories and insular areas under section 675(A) are determined, no
  State receives less than one-half of one percent of the amount appropriated. This
  program has no matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Entitlement amounts are for a specific fiscal year and the grant funds allotted to
  the State will be awarded in accordance with apportionment of funds from the
  Office of Management and Budget. Amounts unobligated by the State at the
  end of a fiscal year remain available for obligation during the succeeding fiscal
  year.
Reports:
  States must prepare and submit to the Secretary an Annual Report on the
  measured performance of the State and the eligible entities in the State. Reports
  shall include an accounting of the expenditure of funds received under the
  CSBG Program, including administrative costs incurred by the State and eligible
  entities and funds spent on direct delivery of local services, information on the
  number of and characteristics of clients served and a summary description of the
  training and technical assistance offered by the State. The Annual Report is due
  on March 31 each year. States are required to submit annual financial status
  reports, SF-269A's, 90 days after the end the fiscal year, i.e., December 30, each
  year.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June
  27, 2003)," Audits of States, Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations,"
  Non-Federal entities that expend $300,000 ($500,000 for fiscal years ending
  after December 31, 2003) or more in a year in Federal awards shall have a single
  or program-specific audit conducted for that year in accordance with the
  provisions of this part. Non-Federal entities that expend less than $300,000
  ($500,000 for fiscal years ending after December 31, 2003) a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in section .215(a), but records must be available for review or audit by
  appropriate officials of the Federal agency, pass-through entity, and General
  Accounting Office (GAO).
Records:
  States are required to keep records sufficient to permit preparation of the
  required reports and to permit tracing of funds to a level of expenditure adequate
  to insure that funds have not been spent unlawfully.
Account Identification:
  75-1504-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $630,414,000; FY 08 $653,800,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $1,019 to $55,942,793; Average $5,342,585.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  A total of 192 grants were awarded in fiscal year 2007. It is anticipated that 197
  grants will be awarded in fiscal year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 16, 45 CFR 74 and 45 CFR 96.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Division of State Assistance, Office of Community Services, Administration for
  Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, 370 L'Enfant
  Promenade, SW., Washington, DC 20447. Telephone: (202) 401-9343.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/ocs.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.568, Low-Income Home Energy Assistance; 93.600, Head Start; 93.045,
  Special Programs for the Aging_Title III, Part C_Nutrition Services.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
93.570 COMMUNITY SERVICES BLOCK GRANT-
DISCRETIONARY AWARDS
  (Community Economic Development (CED) and Rural Community
  Facilities (RF))
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Community Opportunities, Accountability, Training, and Educational Services
  Act of 1998, Title II, Section 680, Public Law 105-285.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support program activities to alleviate the causes of poverty in distressed
  communities which: (1) assist businesses in creating jobs for low-income
  individuals, i.e., develop employment and business development opportunities
  for low-income individuals; (2) a better standard of living for rural low-income
