  individuals in terms of water and waste water treatment.                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Federal funds awarded under the Secretary's Discretionary Authority may be            
  used for activities that: improve the quality of the economic and social              
  environment of low-income residents by providing resources to eligible                
  applicants, by arresting tendencies toward dependency, chronic unemployment           
  and community deterioration in urban and rural areas; and by addressing needs         
  of water and wastewater treatment in Rural Communities. Community                     
  Economic Development grants are awarded to cover project costs for (1) startup        
  or expansion of business, physical improvements, or commercial activities. (2)        
  Capital expenditures such as the purchase of equipment or real property; (3)          
  allowable operating expenses; and (4) loans or equity investments. Expenditures       
  must result in the creation of employment or business opportunities for low-          
  income individuals. Generally, the project must be completed within 36 months         
  for non-construction projects and 60 months for contruction projects. Projects        
  must document public/private partnership mobilizing cash and/or in-kind               
  contributions; and be located in areas characterized by poverty and other             
  indicators of socioeconomic distress, such as high levels of unemployment, or         
  high levels of violence, gang activity, crime, drug use and/or low-income             
  individuals or designation as an Empowerment Zone or Enterprise Community             
  (EZ/EC). Rural Community Facilities grants are awarded to provide training and        
  technical assistance to small, rural communities concerning their water and           
  waste water treatment needs. RF grants focus on the development and upgrading         
  of small water and wastewater systems in low-income rural areas. Types of             
  services provided included training of persons responsible for community water        
  and wastewater facilities; assisting communities with problem-solving and             
  planning for facilities; producing and disseminating publications, newsletters,       
  videos, and training manuals about rural waste and wastewater systems; and            
  assisting rural communities in leveraging Federal, State, local, and private sector   
  financing for facilities.                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  For Community Economic Development projects, eligibility is restricted to             
  private, locally initiated, nonprofit community development corporations (or          
  affiliates of such corporations) governed by a board consisting of residents of the   
  community and business and civic leaders. For Rural Community Development             
  Activity projects, which is refered to as Rural Community Facilities projects,        
  eligibly is restricted to multi-state, regional private, non-profit organizations that
  can provide training and technical assistance to small, rural communities             
  interested in safe water and waste water treatment needs.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  A project must be targeted to address the needs of a specific segment of low-         
  income individuals or families. The official poverty line established by the          
  Director of the Office of Management and Budget, published annually by the            
  Department of Health and Human Services is used as a criterion of eligibility in      
  the Community Economic Development Discretionary Grant program.                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Costs will be determined in accordance with the provisions of Title 45 CFR 74.        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental            
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official       
  designated as the single point of contact in the State for more information on the    
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State    
  has selected the program for review. The standard application forms as furnished      
  by DHHS and required by Title 45 CFR Part 74 must be used. An environmental           
  impact statement may be required for certain projects under this program. This        
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review          
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official              
  designated as the single point of contact in the State for more information on the    
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State    
  has selected the program for review. The standard application forms as furnished      
  by DHHS and required by Title 45 CFR, Part 74 must be used. An                        
                                                                                        
  environmental impact statement may be required for certain projects under this

                                                                                        
  program.

                                                                                        
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Awards are granted on a competitive basis. Announcements concerning the

                                                                                        
  availability of funds, requests for applications, along with application form and

                                                                                        
  assurance documents, are at www.grants.gov. Applications to the Office of

                                                                                        
  Community Services for grants under the announcement should be addressed to:

                                                                                        
  OCS Operations Center 1515 Wilson Blvd., Suite 100, Arlington, Virginia

                                                                                        
  22209. Applicants are urged to inform and coordinate application submissions

                                                                                        
  with State and local governments where such information and coordination is           
  appropriate or necessary for the success of the program. This program is subject      
  to the provisions of Title 45 CFR Part 74 (non-governmental entities). All            
  applications for assistance under this program must contain: (1) SF-424,              
  Application for Federal Assistance; (2) SF-424A, Budget Information; (3) SF-          
  424B, Assurances-Non- Construction Programs; (4) Certificate Regarding Drug           
  Free Workplace Requirements; (5) Certification regarding environmental                
  tobacco smoke; (6) Certification Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other



                                                                                   11-08
  Responsibility Matters; and (7) Certification Regarding Lobbying. These must
  be accompanied by a detailed budget, and a program narrative submitted in
  accordance with the format detailed in the program announcement.
Award Procedure:
  The Director, Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and
  Families (ACF), will make the final decision on all grant awards. Selection of
  applicants will be determined based on the review criteria outlined in the
  program announcement.
Deadlines:
  All information and application forms required to prepare a grant are at
  www.grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally, solicited grants will be acted upon within 90 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Rural Community Development Activity projects (also referred to as Rural
  Community Facilities Projects), are awarded for a five year project period with
  12 month budget periods.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, Community Economic Development financial assistance awards are
  made available for periods of 36 to 60 months; Rural Community Facilities
  financial assistance awards are awarded for 12-month budget periods with a five
  year project period.
Reports:
  Semi-annual progress reports, semi-annual financial reports and a final report
  summarizing the activities and accomplishments of the project in relation to the
  approved goals and objectives are required by OCS.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June
  27, 2003)," Audits of States, Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations,
  Nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 for fiscal years ending after December
  31, 2003 or more in a year in Federal awards shall have a single or program-
  specific audit conducted for that year in accordance with the provisions of this
  part. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 for fiscal years ending
  after December 31, 2003 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in section .215(a), but records must
  be available for review or audit by appropriate officials of the Federal agency,
  pass-through entity, and General Accounting Office (GAO).
Records:
  Grant recipients are required to keep all financial, business and program reports
  necessary for program review and audit to insure that funds have been expended
  in accordance with the regulations, grant terms and conditions of this program.
  Audits and supporting records must be kept on file for at least 3 years.
Account Identification:
  75-1536-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  Discretionary Awards - Community Economic Development: FY 07
  $27,022,000; FY 08 $31,467,000; and FY 09 est not available. Rural
  Community Facilities: FY 07 $7,293,000; FY 08 $7,860,000; and FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Up to $700,000 for Community Economic Development and $1,099,500 for
  Rural Community Facilities.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, 45 grants were awarded and it is estimated that 52 grants will be
  awarded in FY 08 for the Community Economic Development program. For the
  Rural Community Facilities program, 9 grants were awarded in FY 07 and it is
  anticipated the same number of grants will be awarded in FY 08.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program announcements are posted on the web.
Regional or Local Office:
  OCS Liaisons, stationed in - ACF.
Headquarters Office:
  Rafael J. Elizalde, Team Leader, Telephone: (202) 401-5115,
  rafael.elizalde@acf.hhs.gov, Division of Community Discretionary Programs,
  Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and Families,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, S.W.,
  Washington, DC 20447.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/ocs.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.593, Job Opportunities for Low-Income Individuals.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  SEE OCS web-site.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Specific criteria for selecting proposals for funding are stated in each program
  announcement.
                                                                                1439
