93.575 CHILD CARE AND DEVELOPMENT BLOCK                                                 
GRANT                                                                                   
                                                                                        
   The Child Care and Development Block Grant (or Discretionary                         
  Funds) is a part of the Child Care and Development Fund (CCDF) program,               
  along with the Child Care Mandatory and Matching Funds (see CFDA number               
  93.596).                                                                              
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                               
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990, as amended (Public Law            
  101-508, 42 U.S.C. 9858 et seq); Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity         
  Reconciliation Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-193); Balanced Budget Act of 1997          
  (Public Law 105-33); Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-           
  161).                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To make grants to States, Territories, Tribes, and tribal organizations for child     
  care assistance for low- income families and to: (1) allow each State maximum         
  flexibility in developing child care programs and policies that best suit the needs   
  of children and parents within such State; (2) promote parental choice to             
  empower working parents to make their own decisions on the child care that best       
  suits their family's needs; (3) encourage States to provide consumer education        
  information to help parents make informed choices about child care; (4) assist        
  States to provide child care to parents trying to achieve independence from           
  public assistance; and (5) assist States in implementing the health, safety,          
  licensing, and registration standards established in State regulations.               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Formula Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  In the Fiscal Year 2008 Appropriations Act, Congress directs that funds               
  appropriated for the Child Care and Development Block Grant (Discretionary            
  Funds) must be used to supplement, not supplant, State general revenue funds          
  for child care assistance for low-income families. Lead Agencies must use             
  Discretionary Funds for child care services on a sliding fee scale basis, activities  
  that improve the quality or availability of such services, and other activities that  
  realize the goals of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act. Certain          
  amounts of Discretionary Funds must be used for specific purposes: quality            
  expansion; infant and toddler quality improvement; and child care resource and        
  referral, including a national toll-free hotline, and school-age child care           
  activities. A portion of the Discretionary Funds is also designated for the U.S.      
  Department of Health & Human Services to carry-out research, demonstration,           
  and evaluation projects. Not more than five percent of the aggregate amount of        
  CCDF Funds expended by the State or Territory (15 percent for Tribes or tribal        
  organizations) may be expended for administrative costs incurred by the State or      
  Territory to carry out all of its functions and duties. The term "administrative      
  costs" does not include the costs of providing direct services. A State or            
  Territory shall use not less than four percent of the CCDF Funds to improve           
  child care quality and availability including comprehensive consumer education,       
  activities to increase parental choice, and other activities such as resource and     
  referral services, provider grants and loans, monitoring and enforcement of           
  requirements, training and technical assistance, and improved compensation for        
  child care staff. Except for approved construction of child care facilities by tribal 
  grantees, no Discretionary Funds may be used for the purchase or improvement          
  of land, or for the purchase, construction, or permanent improvement of any           
  building or facility (other than for minor remodeling and for upgrading facilities    
  to meet State and local child care standards). No Discretionary Funds provided        
  directly to child care providers through grants or contracts may be expended for      
  any sectarian purpose or activity, including sectarian worship or instruction;        
  however, Grantees must give parents the option of receiving vouchers or               
  certificates to allow parents the choice of faith-based or community child care       
  providers. No Discretionary Funds may be provided for any services provided to        
  students enrolled in grades 1 through 12 during the regular school day; for any       
  services for which such students receive academic credit toward graduation; or        
  for any instructional services which supplant or duplicate the academic program       
  of any public or private school. Lead Agencies shall assure that a substantial        
  portion of the Discretionary Funds will be used to provide assistance to low-         
  income working families who are not receiving assistance under the Temporary          
  Assistance for Needy Families program, attempting through work activities to          
  transition off of temporary assistance programs, nor at risk of becoming              
  dependent on temporary assistance programs.                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  All States, the District of Columbia, Territories (Guam, American Samoa, Puerto       
  Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands, and Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands),         
  federally recognized Tribal Governments, and tribal organizations, including          
  Alaska Native organizations.                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Children under age 13 (or, at the option of the grantee, up to age 19, if             
  physically or mentally incapable of self-care or under court supervision), who        


1440                                                                              11-08

  reside with a family whose income does not exceed 85 percent of the State
  median income for a family of the same size, and who reside with a parent (or
  parents) who is working or attending job training or educational program; or are
  in need of, or are receiving protective services.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Grantees must operate under a CCDF plan approved by the Administration for
  Children and Families, and must provide assurances that the grantee will comply
  with the requirements of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act and
  all applicable Federal law.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Each grantee must designate a Lead Agency to which grants are awarded and
  that is accountable for the use of the Discretionary Funds provided, the duties of
  which shall include developing a CCDF plan. In conjunction with the
  development of the CCDF plan, the Lead Agency must hold at least one public
  hearing no earlier than nine months before the CCDF plan becomes effective
  and after at least 20 days of statewide public notice, to provide the public an
  opportunity to comment on the provision of child care services under the plan. In
  advance of the hearing, the lead agency must make the content of the plan
  available to the public. The Lead Agency must also coordinate the provision of
  services under the program with other Federal, State, and local child care and
  early childhood development programs. Also, the Lead Agency must consult
  with appropriate representatives of local governments. This program is excluded
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A Lead Agency desiring to receive an allotment for a fiscal year is required to
  submit a two-year CCDF plan to the Administration for Children and Families,
  as well as, financial and other information necessary for the grants process. Each
  plan must contain certifications and assurances by the Lead Agency that it will
  comply with the requirements of the Child Care and Development Block Grant
  Act. The plan must also include: the designation of a Lead Agency; the provision
  of assurances regarding policies and procedures as stated in Section 658E(c)(2)
  of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act; an outline of the intended
  use of block grant funds in compliance with Section 658E(c)(3) of the Child
  Care and Development Block Grant Act; the provision of certification regarding
  payment rates as stated in Section 658E(c)(4) of the Child Care and
  Development Block Grant Act; and the establishment of a sliding fee scale.
  Additional requirements are specified by 45 CFR Parts 98 and 99. This program
  is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are awarded after the receipt and approval of the plan by the
  Administration for Children and Families.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Child Care Bureau's Headquarters Office listed below for deadline
  dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The Administration for Children and Families will review the plans for approval
  and will act on the plans within 90 days.
Appeals:
  Guidelines for appeals of disapprovals of CCDF plans are specified in
  regulations (45 CFR Part 99).
Renewals:
  CCDF plans must be submitted every two years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Allocations for States are based on a formula that takes into account the number
  of children below the age of five, the number of children receiving assistance
  through the School Lunch Program in the State and per capita income. Not less
  than one percent, but not more than two percent of the total Discretionary Funds
  are reserved for Tribes and tribal organizations, and not more than one-half of
  one percent of the total Discretionary Funds is reserved for the Territories.
  Puerto Rico is treated as a State for allotment purposes.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant awards are made to Lead Agencies with approved CCDF plans. Grantees
  must obligate all Discretionary Funds in the fiscal year in which they are granted
  or in the succeeding fiscal year. Those funds must be liquidated in the third year.
Reports:
  As specified in 45 CFR Part 98, States must report to the Administration for
  Children and Families annually aggregate data on families, children in care,
  providers, payment methods, and consumer education. Quarterly case-level
  reports are required to provide data on families, children, and providers, and
  payment information. States must also submit quarterly expenditure reports.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. Further auditing may be necessary.
Records:
  Proper grant accounting records must be maintained.
