  L'Enfant Promenade, SW., Washington DC 20447.                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/orr.                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  93.566, Refugee and Entrant Assistance_State Administered Programs; 93.567,       
  Refugee and Entrant Assistance_Voluntary Agency Programs; 93.583, Refugee         
  and Entrant Assistance_Wilson/Fish Program; 93.584, Refugee and Entrant           
  Assistance_Targeted Assistance Grants.                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  In fiscal year 2007, ORR provided funds for projects to: (1) provide vocational   
  training, job search, and social services to help refugees obtain employment; (2) 
  provide placement of refugees in preferred communities; (3) meet special needs    
  of unanticipated arrivals; (4) meet the needs of refugees arriving in the US with 
  special conditions such as positive HIV, trauma, physical and mental              
  disabilities, and other health related problems; (5) provide microenterprise      
  development services to refugees; (6) provide matching funds for individual       
  development accounts (IDA) and funds for financial literacy training for low-     
  income refugees; (7) provide support for ethnic community self-help               
  organizations; (8) provide support for elderly programs; (9) provide funds to     
  support refugee healthy marriage programs; and (10) provide services for          
  refugees in rural areas.                                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Notice of the criteria for awarding funds is published in the ACF website and the 
  ORR website for each type of program announcement for discretionary               
  programs. See the Information Contact section for more information.               
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
93.579 U.S. REPATRIATION                                                            
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                           
                                                                                    
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                                                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:

  Social Security Act, Section 1113; 24 U.S.C. 9.                                   
                                                                                    
OBJECTIVES:

  To provide temporary assistance, care, and treatment to eligible US citizens and

  their dependents after their return to the United States from travel in a foreign 
  country due to physical or mental illness, destitution, war, threat of war, or a  
  similar crisis and are without resources.

                                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  This program provides temporary assistance such as money payments, medical        
  care, temporary billeting, admission into a nursing home or hospital, settling    
  with family or friends, moving into permanent housing, or foster care placement,  
  transportation, overnight lodging, food, provision for escort services, clothing  
  and other goods and services necessary for the health or welfare of individuals   
  (including guidance, counseling, and other welfare services), furnished to U.S.   
  citizens and their dependents who are without available resources in the U.S.     
  upon their arrival from abroad and for such period after their arrival, not       
  exceeding 90 days, as may be provided in regulations of the Secretary of Health   
  and Human Services (HHS). This temporary assistance is given in the form of a     
  loan and must be repaid to the U.S. Government. Repatriates agree to repay        
  costs to Federal government.                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  National/international social service organizations with expertise in mental      
  health, child welfare, and criminal justice system. Coordination with the U.S.    
  Another criteria for eligibility relies on the agency's ability to work with      
  Department of State and Repatriation Coordinators in each State.                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  U.S. citizens and their dependents returning to the U.S. from abroad.             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Proof of U.S. Citizenship, destitution and if applying due to mental condition,   
  individual, a certificate as to the mental status.                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is excluded from coverage by E.O. 12372.                             
Application Procedure:                                                              
  ACF discretionary grants procedures.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Grants are awarded through ACF discretionary grants procedures.                   
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Listed in the ORR and ACF website.                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Two months.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  Project periods are generally for five years with one year budget periods.        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Five-year project period and annual budget period.



1442                                                                          11-08

Reports:
  Program Performance Reports and Financial Status Reports are due on a semi-
  annual schedule.
Audits:
  Subsumed in Departmental audit procedures.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  75-1501-0-1-609.
Obligations:
  (Grant) FY 07 $900,000; FY 08 $1,000,000; and FY 09 est $1,300,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 07, a single cooperative agreement was awarded for $900,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, one cooperative agreement was awarded. The program serves over
  200 US citizens each year.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 211-212. A brochure entitled "Temporary Assistance for Repatriates" is
  available from the Headquarters Office at no charge.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for Children and Families, 370
  L'Enfant Promenade, SW., Washington, DC 20447. Elizabeth Russell, Director.
  Telephone: (202) 401-4845.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/orr.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  One cooperative agreement has been awarded to provide services under this
  program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Listed in the ORR and ACF website.
93.581 IMPROVING THE CAPABILITY OF INDIAN
TRIBAL GOVERNMENTS TO REGULATE
ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Native American Programs Act of 1974, as amended, Public Law 93-644, 88
  Stat. 2334, 42 U.S.C. 2991b; Indian Environmental Regulatory Enhancement
  Act, Public Law 101-408, 104 Stat. 883.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance to advance tribal capacity and capability to plan
  for, develop, and implement enhancements to the tribal environmental regulatory
  infrastructure required to support a tribe's environmental goals.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for planning, developing and implementing tribal
  environmental regulatory programs through competitive grants. Types of
  allowable activities are: to regulate and enforce environmental activities on
  Indian lands; to develop regulations, ordinances and laws to protect the
  environment; to develop the technical and program capacity to carry out a
  comprehensive tribal environmental program and perform essential
  environmental program functions; to promote training and education of tribal
  employees; to develop technical and program capability to meet tribal and
  Federal regulatory requirements; to develop technical and program capability to
  monitor compliance and enforcement of tribal environmental regulations,
  ordinances, and laws; and to ensure the tribal court system enforcement
  requirements are developed in concert with and support the tribe's
  comprehensive environmental program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The following organizations are eligible to apply: Federally-recognized Indian
  tribes; consortia of Indian tribes; incorporated nonfederally-recognized Tribes;
  Alaska Native villages as defined in the Alaska Native Claims Settlement Act
  (ANCSA) and/or nonprofit village consortia; and tribal governing bodies (IRA
  or traditional councils) as recognized by the Bureau of Indian Affairs.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  American Indians and Alaska Natives.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Information regarding the availability for grant funds will be published from
