  pursuant to criteria specified in the program announcement.

Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The Director of ORR makes the funding decision on all grant awards.                
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Closing dates for new projects is April 30 of each year.                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 60 to 90 days.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Contingent upon funding availability, grantee performance, and the best interest   
  of the government.                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Generally, funds made available for this program will be for 1-year budget         
  period, however the project period is up to 5 years.                               
Reports:                                                                             
  Progress reports and financial reports are required, usually on a quarterly basis. 
  Final program and financial reports summarizing the activities and                 
  accomplishments of the project in relation to the approved goals and objectives    
  are also required.                                                                 
Audits:                                                                              
  Periodic audits are made a part of the system of financial management and          
  internal control to meet terms and conditions of grants and other agreements. "In  
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 24,        
  1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,           
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133."                                                            
Records:                                                                             
  Grant recipients are required to keep all financial, business and program reports  
  necessary for program review and audit for the project period and for three years  
  following the end of the project period to insure that funds have been expended    
  in accordance with the regulations, grant terms, and conditions of the program.    
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-1503-0-1-609.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  Cash and Medical Assistance (CMA) FY 07 $20,000,000; FY 08 $23,000,000;            
  and FY 09 est $23,000,000.                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  In FY 2007, grants ranged from $333,322 to $3,532,062.                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                     
  In FY 07, 12 grants were awarded. It is anticipated that 12 grants will be

                                                                                     
  awarded in FY 08 and FY 09. Projects provide cash assistance and employment

                                                                                     
  and other social services to newly arrived refugees.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                     
  The Wilson/Fish Program announcement can be found on the ORR website. All

                                                                                     
  inquiries should be directed to the Information Contacts listed below.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  Not applicable.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                     
  For information, contact Carl Rubenstein, Office of Refugee Resettlement,

                                                                                     
  Administration for Children and Families, Department of Health and Human

                                                                                     
  Services, 8th Floor West, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., Washington DC

                                                                                     
  20447. Telephone: (202)205-5933.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/orr.

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

  93.566, Refugee and Entrant Assistance_State Administered Programs; 93.567,        
  Refugee and Entrant Assistance_Voluntary Agency Programs; 93.576, Refugee          
  and Entrant Assistance_Discretionary Grants.                                       
                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Some Wilson/Fish projects include: 1) A large state-administered project where     
  the voluntary agencies determine eligibility and are responsible for case          
  management of eligible refugees; and 2) a private voluntary agency that            
  administers cash and medical assistance and social services for refugees not       
                                                                                     
  otherwise eligible for TANF and/or Medicaid in a State in which the State

                                                                                     
  elected not to participate in the refugee resettlement program.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  The evaluation criteria for selecting projects is available in the Wilson/Fish     
                                                                                     
  Standing Announcement, which can be found at Grants.gov and on the ORR

                                                                                     
  website at www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/orr.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.584 REFUGEE AND ENTRANT ASSISTANCE-                                               
TARGETED ASSISTANCE GRANTS                                                           
                                                                                     
   (TAP; TAG)                                                                        


1444                                                                           11-08

FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Immigration and Nationality Act, Section 412(c)(2), as amended; Refugee
  Assistance Extension Act of 1986, Public Law 99-605, 8 U.S.C. 1522(c);
  Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, Section 501(a), Public Law 96-422,
  8 U.S.C. 1522 note; Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related
  Programs Appropriations Act of 1988, Section 584(c), Public Law 100-202;
  Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations
  Act of 1989, Public Law 100-461; Foreign Operations, Export Financing, and
  Related Programs Appropriations Act of 1990, Public Law 101-167; Foreign
  Operations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriations Act of
  1991, Public Law 101-513; and Section 107(b)(1)(a) of the Victims of
  Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000, Public Law 106-386.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide funding for employment-related and other social services for
  refugees, asylees, Amerasians, victims of a severe form of trafficking, and
  entrants in areas of high refugee concentration and high welfare utilization.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance is limited to employment-related and other social services for
  refugees, asylees, Amerasians, victims of a severe form of trafficking, and
  entrants, as defined in the authorizing Acts, supplemented by appropriate
  documentation provided to the refugee from the Bureau of Citizenship and
  Immigration Services (BCIS), formerly INS.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The State agency designated as responsible for the Refugee Resettlement
  Program is eligible to receive funding for assistance to counties and similar areas
  in States where, because of factors such as unusually large refugee or entrant
  populations, high refugee or entrant concentrations in relation to the overall
  population, and high use of public assistance by refugees, there exists a need for
  supplementation of available resources for services to refugees.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Persons admitted to the U.S. within the last 5 years as refugees under Section
  207 of the Immigration and Nationality Act; granted asylum under Section 208
  of the Act; Cuban and Haitian entrants, as defined in Section 501 of the Refugee
  Education Assistance Act; and certain Amerasians from Vietnam and their
  accompanying family members, as defined by Section 584(c) of the Foreign
  Relations, Export Financing, and Related Programs Appropriation Act of 1988.
  Victims of a severe form of trafficking who have received a certified or letter of
  eligibility from ORR.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Persons for whom assistance is authorized are limited to refugees, asylees, and
  Amerasian immigrants with documentation from the BCIS as to their status and
  to Cuban and Haitian entrants with documentation from the BCIS as to status
  allowed under Title V of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, and
  victims of a severe form of trafficking who have been certified by ORR. Costs
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and
  local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  States with qualifying counties must submit an application for funding in
  accordance with application requirements described in the annual notice of
  availability of formula allocation funding for targeted assistance grants. A State
  must submit a single application on behalf of all qualified counties in that State.
  Funding is contingent upon the submission and approval of a State application.
  Subsequent to the approval of the application by ORR, county governments
  develop local targeted assistance plans and submit them to the State.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are made to designated State agencies on behalf of qualifying counties.
  State agencies, in turn, receive, review, and determine the acceptability of
  individual county targeted assistance plans. Not less than 95 percent of targeted
  assistance funds must be allocated by the State to qualified counties.
Deadlines:
  The deadline for applications is 30 days from the date of publication of the final
  notice. Contact the Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) listed below for
  further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 1 month.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Grants are for an annual budget period and a 3-year project period. FY 06 was
  the second year of the 3-year grant cycle (FY 05 - FY 07). In FY 06, ORR
  reviewed and verified refugee data on arrivals, entrants and asylees data
  submitted by States and for counties that qualified for formula targeted
