  issues; working with family law judges, criminal court judges, Child Protective   
  Services agencies, and children's advocates to develop appropriate responses to   
  child custody and visitation issues in domestic violence cases as well as cases   
  where domestic violence and child abuse are both present; conducting public       
  education campaigns regarding domestic violence through the use of public         
  service announcements and informative materials that are designed for print       
  media, billboards, public transit advertising, electronic broadcast media, and    
  other vehicles for information including information aimed at underserved         
  racial, ethnic or language-minority populations; and participating in planning    
  and monitoring the distribution of grants and grant funds within the State under  
  Section 303(a) of the Act. (See CFDA 93.671, Family Violence Prevention and       
  Services: Grants to State and Indian Tribes.)                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  To be eligible for a grant under this Section, an entity shall be a statewide     
  nonprofit State Domestic Violence Coalition, or a membership organization         
  consisting of the battered women's shelters in the state, or territory.           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  This program will benefit victims of domestic violence, their children and other  
  dependents, their families, and other persons affected by such violence including 
  friends, relatives, and the general public.                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Applications must be submitted for approval by the Secretary of Heath and         
  Human Services. Costs will be determined in accordance with 45 CFR 74.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Applications must be submitted to the Administration on Children, Youth and       
  Families. No standard application forms are required. Specific instructions are   
  published via the Internet under the Form section at the following website:       
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/grants. Contact Headquarters Office listed below for

  further information.                                                              
Award Procedure:

  Funds are awarded directly to State Domestic Violence Coalitions.

                                                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Specific instructions are published criteria published on the following website:  
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/fysb. You may also get information on the         
  Family and Youth Services Bureau website at                                       
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/fysb.                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  None.                                                                             
Appeals:                                                                            
  See 45 CFR 16, Procedures of the Department Appeals Board.                        
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.

                                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                    
  No less than 10 percent of the amount available for grants will be made available

                                                                                    
  to the State Domestic Violence Coalition in each of the 50 States, Puerto Rico

                                                                                    
  and the District of Columbia. Grants for the Coalitions in the combined U.S.

                                                                                    
  Territories of Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Northern Mariana Islands, and

                                                                                    
  American Samoa shall not receive less than 1/53 of the funds appropriated for

                                                                                    
  each fiscal year.

                                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                    
  The annual grant award must be expended by each State Domestic Violence

                                                                                    
  Coalition by the end of the fiscal year following the fiscal year for which funds

                                                                                    
  are awarded. Payments are made through the Electronic Transfer System.

                                                                                    
Reports:

  Each State Domestic Violence Coalition receiving amounts under this section       
  shall submit an annual report to the Secretary describing the coordination,       
  training and technical assistance, and public education services performed with   
                                                                                    
  the grant funds received and evaluating the effectiveness of those services.

                                                                                    
Audits:

                                                                                    
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92

                                                                                    
  and OMB Circular No. A-133. In accordance with the provisions of OMB

                                                                                    
  Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local

                                                                                    
  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend

                                                                                    
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal Awards will have a single or

                                                                                    
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that

                                                                                    
  expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal

                                                                                    
  audit requirements for the year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                    
Records:

                                                                                    
  State coalitions are required to maintain records documenting the purposes for

                                                                                    
  which expenditures were made. Requirements are found in 45 CFR Part 92.

                                                                                    
Account Identification:

                                                                                    
  75-1536-0-1-506.

                                                                                    
Obligations:

                                                                                    
  (Grants) FY 07 $12,473,100; FY 08 $12,255,200; and FY 09 est $12,255,200.

                                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  Each State Domestic Violence Coalition received $235,341 in fiscal 2007; each     
  coalition will receive approximately the same amount in fiscal year 2008 and      
  2009 based on small changes in the allotment.                                     
                                                                                    


1448                                                                          11-08

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  During fiscal year 2007, 53 grants were made to State Domestic Violence
  Coalitions for coordination, training, technical assistance, and public education
  activities. It is anticipated that 53 grants will be awarded in fiscal years 2008
  and 2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations codified in 45 CFR 1300. Final Rulemaking was published
  February 22, 1996 at 45 CFR 1370.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Marylouise Kelley; Family and Youth Services Bureau, Administration on
  Children, Youth and Families, 1250 Maryland Avenue, SW. Suite 8216,
  Washington, DC 20024. Telephone: (202) 401-5756.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/fysb.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.556, Promoting Safe and Stable Families; 93.645, Child Welfare
  Services_State Grants; 93.667, Social Services Block Grant; 93.669, Child
  Abuse and Neglect State Grants; 93.994, Maternal and Child Health Services
  Block Grant to the States.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Based on State and local priorities, Domestic Violence Coalitions determine the
  activities to be funded for training and technical assistance, public information
  and education, and coordination with other governmental systems in developing
  and improving comprehensive services.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Each State Domestic Violence Coalition will receive its respective share of funds
  if the application submitted meets the necessary requirements.
93.592 FAMILY VIOLENCE PREVENTION AND
SERVICES/GRANTS FOR BATTERED WOMEN'S
SHELTERS-DISCRETIONARY GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Title III, Child Abuse Amendments of 1984, Public Law 98-457, 42 U.S.C.
  10401 et seq.; Family Violence Prevention and Services Act(FVPSA) of 1986,
  as amended; Child Abuse Prevention, Adoptions, and Family Services Act of
  1988, Public Law 100-294; Public Law 102-295; Violent Crime Control and
  Law Enforcement Act, Public Law 103-322; Child Abuse Prevention and
  Treatment Act (CAPTA) OF 1996, Public Law 104-235; Victims of Trafficking
  and Violence Protection Act, Public Law 106-386; Keeping Children and
  Families Safe Act of 2003, Public Law 108-36; Violence Against Women
  Reauthorization Act of 2005, Public Law 109-162.
OBJECTIVES:
  To fund a wide range of discretionary activities for the purpose of preventing
  family violence; protecting victims and their dependents; improving the design,
  delivery, and coordination of services to address family violence; gathering
  information on the incidence of family violence; and increasing knowledge and
  understanding of the issue through research, demonstration, and evaluation
  projects. Specific sections in the Act authorize funding for such discretionary
  projects as the National Resource Centers; a national domestic violence hotline;
  public education and information activities; and research into the most effective
  programs for the prevention, identification, and treatment of family violence.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Discretionary grants may be made to public and private entities and may take the
  form of a competitive grant, a cooperative agreement, or a contract, depending
  on the statutory requirements. Applicants must meet the program and
  administrative requirements specified in the appropriate Federal Register or
  Commerce Business Daily announcement.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Depending on the purpose of the project and the statutory requirements, an
  applicant may be a public agency, a private agency (nonprofit), a federally-
  recognized Indian tribe, an Alaska Native Village, or a nonprofit Alaska Native
  Regional Corporation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  These discretionary grants will benefit victims of family violence, their
  dependents, families, other interested persons, and the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must submit an application for approval by the Secretary of Health
  and Human Services. Costs will be determined in accordance with 45 CFR
  Parts 74 for private nonprofit agencies and organizations; and in accordance
  with 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local, and Indian Tribal governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  All discretionary grants and cooperative agreements funded under this statute are
