  contracts is available at www.fedbizopps.gov.                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Contact the appropriate ACF Regional Administrator. (See Appendix IV of the           
  Catalog for ACF Regional Offices.)                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Karl Koerper, Office of Planning, Research and Evaluation, Administration for         
  Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, 7th Floor,            
  370 L'Enfant Promenade SW., Washington, DC 20447. Telephone: (202) 401-               
  4535. Fax: (202) 205-3598. E-Mail: KKoerper@ACF.HHS.gov.                              
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/opre.                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  93.558, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families; 93.647, Social Services              
  Research and Demonstration; 93.648, Child Welfare Services Training Grants.           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  See 93.647, Social Services Research and Demonstration, for examples of               
  funded projects.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  The criteria for selecting projects to be funded under this program are published     
  in www.grants.gov for grant announcements and in the solicitation for requests        
  for proposals published in www.fedbizopps.gov for contracts.                          
                                                                                        
93.596 CHILD CARE MANDATORY AND MATCHING                                                
                                                                                        
FUNDS OF THE CHILD CARE AND DEVELOPMENT FUND                                            
   The Child Care Mandatory and Matching Funds are a part of the                        
  Child Care and Development Fund (CCDF) program, along with the Child                  
  Care and Development Block Grant or Discretionary Funds (see CFDA number              
  93.575).                                                                              
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                               
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Social Security Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 618; Personal Responsibility and           
  Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996 (Public Law 104-193); Child               
  Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990, as amended (Public Law 101-             
  508, 42 U.S.C. 9858 et seq); Balanced Budget Act of 1997 (Public Law 105-             
  33); and Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (Public Law 109-171).                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To make grants to States, Tribes, and tribal organizations for child care             
  assistance for low-income families and to: (1) allow each State maximum               
  flexibility in developing child care programs and policies that best suit the needs   
  of children and parents within such State; (2) promote parental choice to             
  empower working parents to make their own decisions on the child care that best       
  suits their family's needs; (3) encourage States to provide consumer education        
  information to help parents make informed choices about child care; (4) assist        
  States to provide child care to parents trying to achieve independence from           
  public assistance; and (5) assist States in implementing the health, safety,          
  licensing, and registration standards established in State regulations.               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Formula Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Subchapter IV of the Social Security Act appropriates funds (Mandatory and            
  Matching Funds) for the purpose of providing child care assistance. Lead              
  Agencies must use Mandatory and Matching Funds for child care services on a           
  sliding fee scale basis, activities that improve the quality or availability of such  
  services, and other activities that realize the goals of the Child Care and           
  Development Block Grant Act. Lead Agencies must ensure that not less than 70          
  percent of the total amount of Mandatory and Matching Funds are used to               
  provide child care assistance to families who are receiving assistance under the      
  Temporary Assistance for Needy Families program, families who are attempting          
  through work activities to transition off of temporary assistance programs, and       
  families who are at risk of becoming dependent on temporary assistance                
  programs. Not more than five percent of the aggregate amount of CCDF Funds            
  expended by the State (15 percent for Tribes or tribal organizations) may be          
  expended for administrative costs incurred by the State to carry out all of its       
  functions and duties. The term "administrative costs" does not include the costs      
  of providing direct services. A State shall use not less than four percent of the     
  CCDF Funds to improve child care quality and availability including                   
  comprehensive consumer education, activities to increase parental choice, and         
  other activities such as resource and referral services, including a national toll-   
  ree hotline, provider grants and loans, monitoring and enforcement of                 
  requirements, training and technical assistance, and improved compensation for        
  child care staff. Except for approved construction of child care facilities by tribal 
  grantees, no Mandatory or Matching Funds may be used for the purchase or              
  improvement of land, or for the purchase, construction, or permanent                  
  improvement of any building or facility (other than for minor remodeling and for      
  upgrading of facilities to meet State and local child care standards.) No             
  Mandatory or Matching Funds provided directly to child care providers through         


1452                                                                              11-08

  grants or contracts may be expended for any sectarian purpose or activity,
  including sectarian worship or instruction; however, Grantees must give parents
  the option of receiving vouchers or certificates to allow parents the choice of
  faith-based or community child care providers. No Mandatory or Matching
  Funds may be provided for any services provided to students enrolled in grades
  1 through 12 during the regular school day; for any services for which such
  students receive academic credit toward graduation; or for any instructional
  services which supplant or duplicate the academic program of any public or
  private school.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All States, the District of Columbia, Federally recognized Tribal Governments,
  and tribal organizations, including Alaskan Native Corporations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Children under age 13 (or, at the option of the grantee, up to age 19, if
  physically or mentally incapable of self-care or under court supervision), who
  reside with a family whose income does not exceed 85 percent of the State
  median income for a family of the same size, and who reside with a parent (or
  parents) who is working or attending job training or educational program, or are
  in need of, or are receiving protective services.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Grantees must operate under a CCDF plan approved by the Administration for
  Children and Families, and must provide assurances that the grantee will comply
  with the requirements of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act and
  all applicable Federal law.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Each grantee must designate a Lead Agency to which grants are awarded and
  that is accountable for the use of the Mandatory and Matching Funds provided,
  the duties of which shall include developing a CCDF plan. In conjunction with
  the development of the CCDF plan, the Lead Agency must hold at least one
  public hearing no earlier than nine months before the CCDF plan becomes
  effective and after at least 20 days of statewide public notice, to provide the
  public an opportunity to comment on the provision of child care services under
  the plan. In advance of the hearing, the Lead Agency must make the content of
  the plan available to the public. The Lead Agency must also coordinate the
  provision of services under the program with other Federal, State, and local child
  care and early childhood development programs. Also, the Lead Agency must
  consult with appropriate representatives of local governments. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A Lead Agency desiring to receive an allotment for a fiscal year is required to
  submit a two-year CCDF plan to the Administration for Children and Families,
  as well as, financial and other information necessary for the grants process. Each
  plan must contain certifications and assurances by the Lead Agency that it will
  comply with the requirements of the Child Care and Development Block Grant
  Act. The plan must also include: the designation of a Lead Agency; the provision
  of assurances regarding policies and procedures as stated in Section 658E(c)(2)
  of the amended Child Care and Development Block Grant Act; an outline of the
  proposed use of block grant funds in compliance with Section 658E(c)(3) of the
  Child Care and Development Block Grant Act; the provision of certification
  regarding payment rates as stated in Section 658E(c)(4) of the Child Care and
  Development Block Grant Act; and the establishment of a sliding fee scale.
  Additional requirements are specified by 45 CFR Parts 98 and 99. This program
  is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are awarded after the receipt and approval of an application and plan by
  the Administration for Children and Families.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Child Care Bureau's Headquarters Office listed below for deadline
  dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The Administration for Children and Families will review the plans for approval
  and will act on the plans within 90 days.
Appeals:
  Guidelines for appeals of disapprovals of CCDF plans are specified in
  regulations, 45 CFR Part 99.
Renewals:
  CCDF plans must be submitted every two years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Allocations of the Mandatory Funds are based on a State's Federal share of the
  expenditures for the now-repealed AFDC-linked child care programs
  (AFDC/JOBS Child Care, Transitional Child Care, and At-Risk Child Care) in
  1994 or 1995, or the average of 1992 through 1994, whichever was greater. A
  State is not required to expend any State funds in order to receive its share of the
  Mandatory Funds. The remaining funds are Matching Funds and are distributed
  based on the number of children under age 13 in a State compared with the
  national total of children under age 13. To access Matching Funds, a State must
  obligate all of its mandatory funds allotted in a fiscal year and maintain 100
  percent of the State's share of expenditures for the former programs in fiscal year
  1994 or fiscal year 1995, whichever is greater. Matching Funds must be matched
  at the applicable FMAP rate, which is the Medicaid Program matching rate. Not
