Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  The amount of funding provided to each grantee is based on an allocation             
  formula with a designated minimum amount, provided in statute.                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Every Governor has designated a State agency that will use these grant funds to      
  establish and administer programs to support and facilitate non-custodial            
  parents' access to and visitation of their children. In fiscal year 2008, 54 grants  
  were awarded. It is estimated that 54 grants will be awarded in fiscal year 2009     
  and 54 in FY 2010.                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Grants Administration Policies and application kits may be obtained from:            
  Office of Child Support Enforcement, Administration for Children and Families,       
  4th Floor, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, S.W., Washington DC 20447.                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for ACF Regional Offices.                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Eileen Brooks, Director, Division of State, Tribal, and Local Assistance, Office     
  of Child Support Enforcement, 4th Floor, Aerospace Building, 370 L'Enfant            
  Promenade S.W., Washington, DC 20447. Telephone: (202) 401-5369.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/cse.                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  93.563, Child Support Enforcement.                                                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
93.598 SERVICES TO VICTIMS OF A SEVERE FORM OF                                         
                                                                                       
TRAFFICKING                                                                            
   (Victims of a Severe Form of Trafficking)                                           
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000, Public Law 106-386, as amended;          
  Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization act of 2003, Public Law 108-          
  193, 22 U.S.C. 7103.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide individuals determined to be victims of a severe form of trafficking      
  access to benefits and services to the same extent as refugees. Provide targeted     
  case management, referrals and funded cash, medical assistance, special mental       
  health or other services, and community/local outreach.                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The Office of Refugee Resettlement (ORR) provides funding for specialized            
  services and assistance to certified/eligible adult victims of a severe form of      
  trafficking assisting criminal justice system efforts to prosecute traffickers.      
  Victims under the age of eighteen are not required to assist prosecution efforts in  
  order to access benefits. Funds may be used only for the purposes set forth in       
  the grant award.                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State and local governments and private nonprofit organizations. Under the           
  "Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (VTPA), and the          
  Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2003 (TVPRA)" trafficking victims are          
  eligible for benefits and services to the same extent as refugees. The law,          
  enacted in October 2000, and amended in December 2003 specifically requires          
  HHS, in consultation with the Attorney General, to "certify" adult trafficking       
  victims as a precondition for their eligibility. Children under eighteen must be     
  determined to be victims of a severe form of trafficking but do not require such     
  certification in order to be eligible for benefits. Certain family members of        
  victims of a severe form of trafficking are eligible for federally funded or         
  administered benefits and services to the same extent as refugees. Specifically,     
  holders of a T-2, T=3, T-4 or T-5 visa (collectively referred to as "Derivative T    
  Visas) are eligible for benefits and services.                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Beneficiaries are adult victims of a severe form of trafficking who have been        
  certified by HHS/ORR. Children under 18 years of age subjected to a severe           
  form of trafficking who have received letters of eligibility from HHS/ORR are        
  considered eligible for services. Certain family members of victims of a severe      
  form of trafficking are legible for federally funded or administered benefits and    
  services to the same extent as refugees. Holders of the "Derivative T Visas" (T-     
  2, T-3, T-4, or T-5 visa) are eligible for services.                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Cost principals for nonprofit organizations will be determined by OMB Circular       
  No. A-122. Cost principals for State and local governments are found under           
  OMB Circular No. A-87. Persons need not attain refugee, entrant, or asylee           


1454                                                                             11-08

  status to be eligible for services under this program.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. Also, 45 CFR 100,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Department of Health and Human Services
  Program and Activities."
Application Procedure:
  Each application submitted under this program announcement will undergo a
  pre-review to determine if (1) The application was received by the closing date
  and submitted in accordance with the instructions in this announcement, and (2)
  applicant is eligible for funding.
Award Procedure:
  Applications that pass the initial Administration for Children and Families
  (ACF) screening will be evaluated and rated by an independent review panel on
  the basis of specific evaluation criteria. The evaluation criteria were designed to
  assess the quality of a proposed project and to determine the likelihood of its
  success.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are sixty days after posting of the notice of funds availability. Notices
  of funds availability are posted on the Office of Refugee Resettlement website at
  www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/orr and at Grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  It is anticipated that the approval/disapproval time will not exceed 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are generally made available for three-year project periods with funding
  on an annual basis.
Reports:
  Progress reports and financial reports are required, usually on a quarterly or
  semi-annual basis. Final program and financial reports summarizing the
  activities and accomplishments of the project in relation to the approved goals
  and objectives are also required.
Audits:
  Periodic audits are made as part of the system of financial management and
  internal control to meet terms and conditions of grants and other agreements.
  "In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less that $500,000 a year in Federal awards
  are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in
  Circular No. A-133." Nonprofit organization receiving less than $25,000 a year
  in Federal awards are exempt from federal audit requirements, but records must
  be available for review by appropriate officials of the Federal grantor agency or
  subgranting entity.
Records:
  Grant recipients are required to keep all financial, business, and program reports
  necessary for program review and audit during the project period and for three
  years thereafter to insure that funds have been expended in accordance with the
  regulations, grant terms, and conditions of this program.
Account Identification:
  75-1503-0-1-609.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,817,000; FY 08 $1,316,000; and FY 09 est $1,298,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2007, 19 grants were awarded. It is estimated that 19 grants will be
  awarded in FY 2008 and FY 2009.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, the total number of trafficking victims was reported at 303. In FY 08
  and FY 09, it is estimated that the number of trafficking victims will be
  approximately 318 and 333, respectively.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program announcements can be found at the ORR website. All inquiries should
  be directed to the Information Contact listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  For program information, contact Maggie Wynne, Director, Division of Anti-
  Trafficking in Persons, Office of Refugee Resettlement, Administration for
  Children and Families, Department of Health and Human Services, 8th Floor
  West, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., Washington, DC 20447. Telephone: (866)
  401-5510, or (202) 401-4664; Fax: (202) 401-5487.
