  children.                                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Head Start/Early Head Start programs are for children from birth up to the age     
  when the child enters the school system; however, Head Start programs only         
  serve pre-school age children. (i.e. children three or four years old) while Early 
  Head Start programs serve children from birth through age three. No less than      
  10 percent of each Head Start program's enrollment shall be for children with      
  disabilities.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Nonprofit organizations must submit proof of nonprofit status. Applicable costs    
  and administrative procedures will be determined in accordance with Part 74        
  and 92 of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations.                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The standard application forms as furnished by DHHS must be used for this          
  program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                   
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult        
  the office or official designated as the Single Point of Contact (SPOC) in his or  
  her State for more information on the process. (NOTE: State/territory              
  participation in the intergovernmental review process does not signify applicant   
  eligibility for financial assistance under a program. A potential applicant must   
  meet the eligibility requirements of the program for which it is applying prior to

  submitting an application to its SPOC).                                            
Application Procedure:

  The Office of Head Start will provide each applicant agency with a completed

                                                                                     
  check list form showing exactly which items must be completed by each              
  applicant and delegate agency.                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  All funds are awarded directly to the grantees. Funds for local Head Start/Early   
  Head Start programs, including a portion of training and technical assistance      
  funds, are awarded by the Office of Head Start's Regional Offices. Funds for the   
  following are awarded by the Central Office of Head Start: American                
  Indian/Alaskan Native programs; Migrant programs; research, demonstration          
  and evaluation efforts and some training and technical assistance efforts.         
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Applications for new projects should be submitted at the times specified by the    
  announcement published via the Internet at the following website:                  
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/grants/grants_hsb.html. Applications for continuation       
  grants must be received at least 90 days prior to the start of the new budget      
  period.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  This, depending on the nature of the proposal, can vary considerably from 90       
  days to as much as several months.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                             
  Grantees who are denied refunding may appeal adverse decisions to the HHS          
  Departmental Appeals Board. There is no appeal for new grants denials.             
Renewals:                                                                            
  OHS Headquarters or Regional Offices will inform grantees of the application       
  procedures for renewal.                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Head Start grantees are required to provide 20 percent of the total cost of the    
  program, although this maybe waived wholly or in part if certain conditions        
  pertain. Matching share may be in cash or in-kind fairly evaluated.                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Funds are available for a 12-month budget period. Funds are released by            
  monthly allowance on an Electronic Transfer System or by monthly check.            
Reports:                                                                             
  Semiannual financial and annual program reports are required.                      
Audits:                                                                              
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR, Parts 74       
  and 92.                                                                            
Records:                                                                             
  Grantee must maintain an accounting system adequate to meet the purposes of        
  the grant. Requirements for records are found in 45 CFR, Part 74 and 92.           
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-1536-0-1-506.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $6,713,508,728; FY 08 $6,713,502,090; and FY 09 est                 
  $6,862,098,090. (Contracts) FY 07 $154,935,559; FY 08 $143,300,915; and FY         
  09 est $145,300,915.                                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $136,000 to $200,351,000; $4,150,000.                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Since 1965, Head Start has served more than 25 million children from low-          
  income families in 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin    
  Islands, and the Outer Pacific. The program has provided education, health,        
  nutrition and social services to the target population. In fiscal year 2007, there 
  were 1,604 grantees funded to provide Head Start grantees. We estimate the         
  same number of grantees in fiscal years 2008 and 2009.                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Chapter XIII of Title 45 Code of Federal Regulations, including 45 CFR 1301 -      


1456                                                                           11-08

  1311. These are available on request at no charge.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the Administration for Children and Families, Office of Head Start
  Regional Program Manager (See Appendix IV of the Catalog under the
  Department of Health and Human Services, Administration for Children and
  Families.)
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Head Start, Portals Building, 1250 Maryland Avenue, SW.,
  Washington, DC. 20024. Telephone: (202) 401-8573.
Web Site Address:
  http://www2.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/hsb .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.550, Food Donation.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Full-Year and Full-Day Head Start Programs; (2) Full-Year and Part-Day
  Head Start Programs; and (3) Part-Year and Part-Day Head Start Programs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The degree to which the proposed project will meet the Head Start Program
  Performance Standards and other program objectives as specified in a program
  announcement.
93.601 CHILD SUPPORT ENFORCEMENT
DEMONSTRATIONS AND SPECIAL PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Social Security Act, Section 452(j), 42 U.S.C. 652(j); Public Laws 104-193 and
  105-33; Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of
  1996.
OBJECTIVES:
  To design and carry out special projects of regional and national significance
  relating to the improvement of child support enforcement efforts.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are awarded for creative special improvement projects and
  demonstrations that improve the effectiveness of the child support enforcement
  program on the regional and national levels. These activities must be consistent
  with the goals of the national child support mission to ensure all children receive
  financial and medical support from both parents and strengthen the ability of the
  nation's child support programs to collect support on behalf of children and
  families.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Funds authorized under section 452(j)(42 USC 652(j))of the Social Security Act
  are available to all types of domestic applicants other than individuals.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State/local agencies, Tribal governments, nonprofit organizations and other
  organizations involved in child support enforcement will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  When appropriate, applicants should present written evidence of other agencies'
  willingness to cooperate when the project involves their cooperation or the
  utilization of their facilities or service. Costs will be determined in accordance
  with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments and federally-
  recognized tribal governments. For other grantees, costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions, OMB
  Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations, and any amendments to the
  aforementioned.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Program strategy for each fiscal year is publicized through central and regional
  office meetings, Dear Colleague, ACF/OCSE websites, GRANTS.gov and other
  appropriate means. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular
  No. A-102. The Standard application forms, as furnished by the Administration
  for Children and Families (ACF), and required by OMB Circular No. A-102,
  must be used for this program. This program is subject to E.O. 12372. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Program." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for Review.
Application Procedure:
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and No.
  A-110, as appropriate. The standard application forms, as furnished by DHHS
  and required by OMB Circular No. A-102, must be used for this program.
  Application forms and supplemental descriptive information on the priority
  projects are available from: Administration for Children and Families, Child
  Support Enforcement Program, 4th floor, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW.,
  Washington, DC 20447. The application shall be executed by an individual
  authorized to act for the applicant agency or organization and to assume for the
