  agency or organization the obligations imposed by the terms and conditions of      
  the grant. The application must clearly indicate whether the application           
  submitted is in response to a program announcement (e.g. CFDA 93.601) and          
  must reference the priority area for which the application is to compete.          
  Applications are reviewed and evaluated by a review panel of not less than three   
  knowledgeable people. Written assessment of each application is made.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Official notice of approved grant applications is made through issuance of a       
  Notice of Grant Award. This provides the amount of funds awarded, the              
  purpose of the award, the term and conditions of the award, the budget period      
  for which support is given, the total project period for which support is          
  contemplated, and the total grantee participation.                                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Closing dates are established and published in the program announcement.           
  Unsolicited applications, may be submitted any time, but must be so unique that    
  they cannot fit under a general announcement.                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 60 to 120 days. Generally, solicited grants will be acted upon within 90      
  days.

Appeals:                                                                             
  There are no formal appeals procedures. If an application is disapproved, the

  reasons for disapproval will be fully stated. In the case of unsolicited proposals,
  applicants are free to resubmit applications with attention to the changes         
  suggested by the reasons for disapproval. In the case of solicited proposals,

  reworking time may be allowed to prepare addenda which clarify various aspects     
  of projects. If an applicant is not awarded a grant, the applicant can request a   
  written response that will address: (1) Weak and deficient areas of the proposal;  
  (2) impact of weaknesses or deficiencies in not being selected; and (3) factors    
  that were the basis of the selection of the successful grantee.                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Generally, project and budget periods vary according to priority area (up to three 
  years). Projects of a longer duration will be considered if unique circumstances   
  warrant. If projects are approved for a period longer than 12 months, funding      
  will be provided in discrete 12-month increments, or "budget periods." Funding     
  beyond the first 12- month budget period is not guaranteed. Future funding will    
  depend on the grantee's satisfactory performance and the availability of future    
  appropriations.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula.                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Generally, project and budget periods vary according to the priority area (up to   
  three years). If projects are approved for a period longer than 12 months, funding 
  will be provided in discrete 12-month increments, or "budget period".              
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly narrative reports and semi-annual reports of expenditures are required   
  on all grant projects. Comprehensive final reports are due on or before            
  termination dates of the projects and not later than 90 days after termination for 
  grants.                                                                            
Audits:                                                                              
  All fiscal transactions identifiable to Federal financial assistance are subject to
  audit by the HHS audit agency, and other Federal officials. In accordance with     
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits        
  of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities    
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal Awards will        
  have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal      
  entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from   
  Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.    
Records:                                                                             
  Proper accounting records, identifiable by grant or contract number and            
  including all receipts and expenditures, must be maintained for 3 years in         
  accordance with 45 CFR 74 or 92. Records must be maintained until all              
  questions are resolved, or at the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is   
  later.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-1553-0-1-609.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $1,556,856; FY 08 $1,500,000; and FY 09 est $1,500,000.                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $100,000 to $200,000; $100,000.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  6 new grants were awarded in FY 07. An estimated 8 new grants will be awarded      
  in FY 08 and 7 in FY 09.                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  "Grants Administration Policies," and application kits may be obtained from the    
  ACF, Office of Child Support Enforcement, 4th Floor, 370 L'Enfant Promenade,       
  SW., Washington, DC 20447.                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Contact Regional Administrators. (See Appendix IV of the Catalog for Regional      
  Offices).                                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                 


                                                                                11-08
  Susan Greenblatt, Deputy Director, Division of State, Tribal, and Local
  Assistance, Office of Child Support Enforcement, Department of Health and
  Human Services, 4th Floor, 370 L'Enfant Promenade, SW., Washington, DC
  20447. Telephone: (202) 401-4849.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/cse.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.558, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families; 93.563, Child Support
  Enforcement; 93.597, Grants to States for Access and Visitation Programs;
  93.564, Child Support Enforcement Research; 93.647, Social Services Research
  and Demonstration.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Special improvement projects intended to improve the operation and
  management of the child support enforcement program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Objectives and need for assistance; (2) approach; (project management and
  staffing plan); (3) evaluation and how success will be measured; (4)
  reasonableness of project costs; and (5) cooperation of CSE agency.
93.602 ASSETS FOR INDEPENDENCE DEMONSTRATION
PROGRAM
   (Assets for Independence)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Assets for Independence Act, Title IV; Community Opportunities,
  Accountability, Training, and Educational Services Act of 1998, Public Law
  105-285, 42 U.S.C. 604, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of the Assets for Independence program is to demonstrate and
  evaluate the effectiveness of asset-building projects that assist low-income
  people in becoming economically self-sufficient by teaching them about
  economic and consumer issues and enabling them to established matched
  savings accounts called individual development accounts (IDAs). The program
  is demonstrating and evaluating the effects of AFI projects and IDAs in terms of
  increasing the economic self-sufficiency of low-income families; promoting
  savings for homeownership, post-secondary education: and small business or
  micro-enterprise development; and stabilizing families and communities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants for five-year project and budget periods. Grantees must allocate at least
  85% of the grant funds for matching participants' IDA savings and 2% of the
  grant funds for data collection and evaluation. Grantees may use the remaining
  13% to support other project activities and related matters. Grantees are
  required to provide or secure nonfederal cash contributions equal to or greater
  than the grant amount.
Applicant Eligibility:
  This program supports innovative projects administered by national, State-wide,
  regional and community-based organizations. Eligible applicants are: (1)
  Private nonprofit organizations, including faith-based organizations, that are tax
  exempt under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code; (2) State or local
  governments or agencies or Tribal governments submitting applications jointly
  with tax exempt organizations; (3) A credit union designated as a low-income
  credit union by the National Credit Union Administration; or an organization
  designated as a Community Development Financial Institution by the Secretary
  of the Treasury.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible project participants are individuals that are members of households
  eligible for assistance under Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF)
  or of households whose adjusted gross income does not exceed 200 percent of
  the poverty income guidelines. The net worth of the household at the end of the
  calendar year preceding the determination of eligibility must not exceed $10,000
  excluding the primary dwelling unit and one motor vehicle owned by a member
  of the household. Grantees may restrict eligibility to people with lower incomes
  and net worth.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Low Income Credit Unions must submit official documentation that the National
  Credit Union Administration has designated the organization as such.
  Community Development Financial Institutions must submit documentation that
  the U.S. Department of the Treasury has designated the organization as such.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for Review, and 45 CFR 100, Intergovernmental
                                                                                  1457
