  Review of Department of Health and Human Services "Programs and                     
  Activities". Applicants from participating jurisdictions should contact their       
  State Point Of Contact (SPOC) as soon as possible to alert them and receive         
  instructions.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Competitive applications must be submitted on Standard Forms 424, 424A, and         
  424B, and include a project narrative as described in the program announcement      
  issued by the Office of Community Services and published in the Federal             
  Register and www.grants.gov website. Required forms are attached to the             
  published announcement. No State plan is required.                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The Director, Office of Community Services makes funding decisions based on         
  recommendations of a panel of experts who review funding proposals. The             
  panel review is based on criteria set forth in the program announcement.            
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Application deadlines are posted on Grants.gov (www.grants.gov) and on the          
  Assets for Independence program website                                             
  (http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/ocs/afi).                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Applications will normally be approved/disapproved and grant awards made            
  within 90 days of application receipt.                                              
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula. Grant amounts are limited to the amount

  of nonfederal cash available for a proposed project as certified by the applicant.  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  These grants have 5-year budget and project periods. Grantees may access grant      
  funds throughout the period to the extent that they provide proof that they have    
  the required nonfederal cash support on hand.                                       
Reports:                                                                              
  Grantees are required to submit semi-annual narrative progress and financial        
  status reports. Grantees must also provide annual program data reports.             
Audits:                                                                               
  Grantees must comply with OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local          
  Governments and Non-Profit Organizations." Nonfederal grantees that expend          
  $500,000 or more in a year in Federal awards must have a single or program-         
  specific audit conducted for that year in accordance with the provisions of this    
  part. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards   
  are exempt from the audit requirements for that year, except as noted in section    
  .215(a), but records must be available for review or audit by appropriate officials 
  of the Federal agency, pass-through entity, and General Accounting Office           
  (GAO).                                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-1536-0-1-506.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $24,407,000; FY 08 $24,025,000; and FY 09 est          
  $24,025,000.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  The Office of Community Services (OCS) awards grants for this program               
  ranging up to $1,000,000. The average grant is approximately $350,000. OCS          
  expects to fund approximately 62 grants per year. Eligible entities may apply for   
  new grants up to the statutory limit of $1,000,000 in each funding cycle.           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In FY 2007, OCS awarded 59 grants. It is estimated that OCS will award              
  approximately 60 grants in FY 08 and FY 09.                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The following regulations: Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 16 -   
  DHHS Grant Appeals Process, Part 74 - Administration of Grants (grants with         
  subgrants to entities), Part 75 - Informal Grant Appeal Procedures, Part 76 -       
  Debarment and Suspension from Eligibility For Financial Assistance, Subpart F       
  - Drug Free Workplace Requirements, Part 80 - Non-discrimination Under              
  Programs Receiving Federal Assistance through Department of Health and              
  Human Services Effectuation of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Part 81    
  - Practice and Procedures for Hearings Under Part 80 of this Title, Part 83 -       
  Regulation for the Administration and Enforcement of Sections 799A and 845          
  of the Public Health Service Act, Part 84 - Non-discrimination on the Basis of      
  Handicap in Programs and Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance,         
  Part 85 - Enforcement of Non- discrimination on the Basis of Handicap in            
  Programs or Activities Conducted by Department of Health and Human                  
  Services, Part 86 - Non- discrimination on the Basis of Sex in Education            
  Programs and Activities Receiving or Benefiting from Federal Financial              
  Assistance, Part 91 - Non-discrimination on the Basis of Age in Health and          
  Human Services Programs or Activities Receiving Federal Financial Assistance,       
  Part 92 - Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative            
  Agreements to States and Local Governments (Federal Register, March 11,             
                                                                                      
1458                                                                            11-08

  1988), Part 93 - New Restrictions on Lobbying.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  James Gatz, Office of Community Services, Administration for Children and
  Families, Department of Health and Human Services, 370 L'Enfant Promenade,
  S.W., Washington, DC 20447. Telephone: (202) 401-4626 or E-mail address:
  AFIProgram@ACF.HHS.GOV.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/ocs/afi
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  List of funded projects is available on request to Information Contact and on the
  website listed above.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Organization experience and administrative capability; (2) Sufficiency of the
  project, design and plan: The degree to which the project described in the
  application appears likely to aid project participants in achieving economic self-
  sufficiency through activities requiring one or more of the qualified expenses
  (home purchase, postsecondary education or training, or business capitalization);
  (3) Adequacy of plan for providing information for evaluation; (4) Commitment
  of nonfederal funds and additional resources; (5) Results or benefits expected;
  and (6) Significant and beneficial impacts.
93.603 ADOPTION INCENTIVE PAYMENTS
   (Adoption Incentive Payments)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Part E, Section 473A of the Social Security Act; the Adoption Promotion Act of
  2003, Public Law 108-145.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide incentives to States to increase annually the number of foster child
  adoptions, special needs adoptions, and older child adoptions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A State shall not expend an amount paid to the State under this grant except to
  provide to children of families any activity or service (including post-adoption
  services) that may be provided under Part B or E of Title IV of the Social
  Security Act. Amounts expended by a State in accordance with the preceding
  sentence shall be disregarded in determining State expenditures for purposes of
  Federal matching payments under Sections 423, 434, and 474 of the Social
  Security Act.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applications are not required. The States, including Puerto Rico and the District
  of Columbia, may receive payments. The Children's Bureau shall determine the
  numbers of foster child adoptions, the special needs adoptions, and the older
  child adoption in a State on the basis of AFCARS data as reported by each State
  and accepted by the Children's Bureau no later than May 15 of the fiscal year
  subsequent to the fiscal year in which the adoptions were finalized (i.e., the
  "earning year").
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries are those children and families eligible under Title IV-B and Title
  IV-E of the Social Security Act, as amended.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The Children's Bureau must receive and approve State reported AFCARS data
  submitted by May 15 of the fiscal year following the fiscal year in which the
  adoptions were finalized (i.e., the "earning year").
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  States are automatic applicants.
Award Procedure:
  Incentive payments will be issued annually, in the fiscal year subsequent to the
  earning year. Payment will be based on AFCARS data submitted no later than
  May 15 of the fiscal year following the earning year. AFCARS data must be
  accepted and approved by the Children's Bureau.
Deadlines:
  AFCARS reports must be received no later than May 15, for subsequent fiscal
  years in order to be considered for incentive payments.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None. Each "earning year" (fiscal years 2003-2007), State adoption data
