  assistance and training to grantees.                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Notice of the program criteria for awarding funds can be found at                   
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/orr.                                                
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.605 FAMILY CONNECTION GRANTS                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  ADMINISTRATON FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICE                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Fostering Connections to Success and Increasing Adoptions Act of 2008, Public       
  Law 110-351.                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide matching grants to State, local or tribal child welfare agencies and     
  private nonprofit organizations that have experience in working with foster         
  children or children in kinship care arrangements for the purpose of helping        
  children who are in, or at risk of entering, foster care to reconnect with family   
  members.                                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants are provided for services or activities that are consistent with the purpose 
  of section 102, Public Law 110-351, and may include the following: (1) a            
  kinship navigator program to assist kinship caregivers in learning about, finding   
  and using programs and services to meet the needs of the children they are          
  raising and their own needs, and to promote effective partnerships among public     
  and private agencies to ensure kinship caregiver families are served; (2)           
  intensive family-finding efforts that utilize search technology to find biological  
  family members for children in the child welfare system; (3) family group           
  decision-making meetings for children in the child welfare system that enable       
  families to make decisions and develop plans that nurture children and protect      
  them from abuse and neglect; and (4) residential family treatment program that      
  enable parent and their children to live in a safe environment for a period of not  
  less than 6 months.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State, local or tribal child welfare agencies and private nonprofit organizations   
  that have experience in working with foster children or children in kinship care    
  arrangements.                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Public or private nonprofit agencies or organizations or tribal child welfare       
  agencies working with foster children or children in kinship care arrangements      
  or children at risk of entering foster care that help the children reconnect with   
  family members.                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Nonprofit agencies must submit proof of nonprofit status. Applicable costs and      
  administrative procedures will be determined in accordance with Parts 74 and 92     
  of Title 45 of the Code of Federal Regulations.                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

  Standard application forms as furnished by HHS must be used for this program.       
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                                
  Announcement of availability of funds is posted to www.Grants.gov. Eligible         
  applicants submit applications by specified deadlines.                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Grant applications are reviewed by a panel of non-federal professionals with        
  expertise in the field of child welfare, particularly foster and kinship care.      
Deadlines:                                                                            
  The deadline for the receipt of applications is stated in the Program               
  Announcement.                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 3 to 6 months.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  Appeals are processed in accordance with HHS regulations in 45 CFR Part 16.         
Renewals:                                                                             
  Projects are awarded with a provision for non-competitive renewal during the        
  approved award period (one to three years).                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The required match must increase over the course of the grant period, such that     
  grantees must contribute 25 percent of the program costs for the first and second   
  year of the grant and 50 percent of the program costs for the third year of the     
  three year grant. (Section 427(d) of the Social Security Act).                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Grants are available for not less than one year and not more than three years.      
  Renewal funding for multiple-year grants is dependent upon grantee                  
  performance and availability of funds.                                              
Reports:                                                                              
  Financial and program reports are required semiannually with a final report at      
  completion of the project. In addition, grants must select and track performance    
  indictors that measure the extent to which grant-funded activities and services     




1460                                                                            11-08

  enhance the safety, permanency and well-being of children and their families.
Audits:
  Audits are conducted in accordance with requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.
Records:
  All financial records are to be maintained for 3 years after termination of the
  project or until audit is completed, whichever comes first.
Account Identification:
  75-1512-0-1-609.
Obligations:
  FY 08 $0; FY 09 $15,000,000; and FY 10 $15,000,000. (Note: The funds in
  this program are also available for contracts. The amounts for contracts cannot
  be predetermined.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Up to $400,000 per grant.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None. New program for FY 2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Specific program requirements are contained in the Funding Opportunity
  Announcement, the application instructions, and the HHS Grants Policy
  Statement. The HHS Grants Policy Statement can be found at:
  http://www.hhs.gov/grantsnet/.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Patricia Campiglia, Federal Project Officer, Division of Research and
  Innovation, Children's Bureau, 1250 Maryland Avenue, S.W., 8th Floor,
  Washington, DC 20024; Telephone: (202) 205-8060; Cathy Overbagh, Federal
  Project Officer, Division of Research and Innovation, Children's Bureau, 1250
  Maryland Avenue, S.W., 8th Floor, Washington, DC 20024; Telephone:
  (202)205-7273.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/cb .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.648, Children Welfare Services Training Grants; 93.669, Child Abuse and
  Neglect State Grants; 93.670, Child Abuse and Neglect Discretionary Activities;
  93.645, Child Welfare Services_State Grants; 93.652, Adoption Opportunities.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  .Applications are evaluated on the basis of the degree to which proposals meet
  specific objectives defined in the program announcement including, but not
  limited to: (1) organizational capacity to collaborate with other service
  providers; (2) relevance of proposed services and activities in enhancing the
  well-being of children in foster care, in kinship care arrangements, or at risk of
  foster care and in helping the children reconnect with family members; and (3)
  demonstrated ability to conduct a kinship navigator program; provide intensive
  family-finding efforts that utilize search technology; conduct family group-
  decision making efforts and provide residential family treatment programs.
93.612 NATIVE AMERICAN PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Native American Programs Act of 1974, as amended, Public Law 93-644; Older
  Americans Act Amendments of 1987, Title V, Public Law 100-175; Indian
  Reorganization Act Amendments, Section 215, Public Law 100-581; Older
  Americans Act Amendments of 1992, Title VIII, Public Law 102-375; 42 U.S.C.
  2991 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance to American Indian non-profit Native Tribes and
  Villages, and for Native Hawaiians and Native American Pacific Islander
  organizations for the development and implementation of social and economic
  development strategies that promote self-sufficiency. These project are expected
  to result in improved social and economic conditions in Native American
  communities and to increase the effectiveness of Tribes and Native non-profit
  Organizations in meeting their social and economic goals.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants may be used for such purposes as, but not limited to: (1) Governance
  Projects which assist Tribal and village governments to exercise local control
  and decision-making over their resources; (2) Economic Development Projects,
  which promote the long term mobilization and management of economic
  resources necessary to achieve a diversified economy; and (3) Social
  Development Projects which support local access to, control of, and
  coordination of services and programs for the social benefit of community
  members.
Applicant Eligibility:
