  An assessment is made on the basis of the degree to which: (1) The likelihood      
  that the proposal will provide necessary services including shelter, counseling,   
  and aftercare to runaway and other homeless youth and their families; (2)          
  reasonableness of cost of these services; and (3) qualifications of staff.         
  Applications will be evaluated based upon the criteria published in the Funding    
  Opportunity Announcement located on the following website address:                 
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/grants.                                                     
                                                                                     
93.630 DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES BASIC SUPPORT                                      
                                                                                     
AND ADVOCACY GRANTS                                                                  
  (State Councils on Developmental Disabilities and Protection and                   
  Advocacy Systems)                                                                  
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                            
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Mental Retardation Facilities and Construction Act of 1963, Title I, Public Law    
  88-164, as amended; Public Laws 91-517, 94-103, 95-602; Omnibus Budget             
  Reconciliation Act of 1981, as amended, Public Law 97-35; Developmental            
  Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act, Title I, Section 100, Public Law   
  98-527, as amended; Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights       
  Act Amendments of 1987, Public Law 100-146; Developmental Disabilities             
  Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 1990, Public Law 101-496; Developmental       
  Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 1994, Public Law 103- 230;       
  Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act Amendments of         
  1996, Public Law 104-183; Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of        
  Rights Act of 2000, Public Law 106-402, 42 U.S.C. 15022-15029 and 42 U.S.C.        
  15042-15045.                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To enable individuals with developmental disabilities to become independent,       
  productive, integrated and included into their communities. Funding under these    
  programs is to assist States in the development of a plan for a comprehensive      
  and coordinated system of services and other activities to enhance the lives of    
  individuals with developmental disabilities and their families to their maximum    
                                                                                     
  potential, and to support a system which protects the legal and human rights of

                                                                                     
  individuals with developmental disabilities.

                                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                     
  Formula Grants.

                                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                     
  (1) Allotments under the basic developmental disabilities formula grant program

                                                                                     
  may be used by States for priority area and other activities, including

                                                                                     
  administrative costs, to build capacity, to refocus existing services, and to

                                                                                     
  advocate to better meet the needs of individuals with developmental disabilities.

                                                                                     
  The designated State agency in each State receives, accounts for and disburses

                                                                                     
  funds, and provides for required assurances and other administrative support

                                                                                     
  services on behalf of the State Developmental Disabilities Council, which carries

                                                                                     
  out the priority area activity and other activities under an approved triennial

                                                                                     
  State Plan. This plan and corresponding budget is developed and administered

                                                                                     
  by the State Developmental Disabilities Council. Federal funds may be expended

                                                                                     
  for up to half the cost of the functions of the designated State agency under this

                                                                                     
  program, but may not exceed five percent of a State's allotment or $50,000,

                                                                                     
  whichever is less. (2) Allotments under the protection and advocacy program

                                                                                     
  may be used to assist States in supporting a system which will have authority to

                                                                                     
  pursue legal and other remedies to protect the rights of individuals with

                                                                                     
  developmental disabilities within the State.

                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  State grant agencies are the designated State agencies of the respective States,

  the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Guam, Northern Mariana      
                                                                                     
  Islands, American Samoa. Under the basic developmental disabilities program,

                                                                                     
  the designated State agency must not provide or pay for services to individuals

                                                                                     
  with developmental disabilities, unless it has held such designation on the date

                                                                                     
  of the enactment of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights

                                                                                     
  Act Amendments of 1994, and the Governor of the State (or the legislature,

                                                                                     
  where appropriate and in accordance with State law) determines prior to June

                                                                                     
  30, 1994, not to change the designation of such agency. The State can only

                                                                                     
  receive funding under the basic developmental disabilities program if it is also

                                                                                     
  participating in the protection and advocacy program. The agency designated to

                                                                                     
  implement the State system under the protection and advocacy program cannot

                                                                                     
  provide or pay for services to individuals with developmental disabilities, and    
  that agency must have authority to obtain access to records of individuals with    
  developmental disabilities.

                                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  To be eligible for a grant, an agency must be designated to administer the         
  program on behalf of the State. The Basic Program benefits individuals with        
  developmental To be eligible for a grant, an agency must be designated to          
  administer the program on behalf of the State. The Basic Program benefits          
  individuals with developmental disabilities through systems change. The            
  Protection and Advocacy system benefits individuals with developmental

                                                                               11-08 
  disabilities. Developmental disability is defined here as a severe chronic
  disability of an individual that is attributable to mental, physical, or a
  combination of impairments, is manifested before age 22, that is likely to
  continue indefinitely, that results in substantial functional limitations in three or
  more of the following major life activities (self-care, receptive and expressive
  language, learning, mobility, self-direction, capacity for independent living, and
  economic self-sufficiency), and that reflects an individual's lifelong need for
  services. Infants and children from birth to age 9, inclusive, are included if they
  have a developmental delay or condition with a high probability of resulting in
  developmental disabilities if services are not provided.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 45 CFR 74 and 92.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is subject only to the State Plan Consolidation Section of E.O.
  12372. State plans are covered under this Section, but Intergovernmental
  Consultation Review is excluded. Standard application forms as furnished by
  DHHS must be used.
Application Procedure:
  Basic Support: Requests for allotments are submitted in the form of a State plan,
  which must be submitted not less than every 5 years, and must address all of the
  requirements of the Statute. Protection and Advocacy: Application is made by
  the State's submission of a description of the Protection and Advocacy system in
  the State and appropriate assurances as required by law, and by annual
  submission statement on the goals and priorities.
Award Procedure:
  Basic Support: Requests for allotments are submitted in the form of a State plan,
  which must be submitted not less than every 5 years, and must address all of the
  requirements of the Statute. Protection and Advocacy: Application is made by
  the State's submission of a description of the Protection and Advocacy system in
  the State and appropriate assurances as required by law, and by annual
  submission statement on the goals and priorities.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  Appeals are processed in accordance with HHS regulations in 45 CFR, Part 16.
Renewals:
  Automatic, under approved application.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Allocation Criteria and/or Mathematical Calculations: Two-thirds (2/3) of the
  amount appropriated is allotted to each State according to the ratio the
  population of each State bears to the population of the United States, weighted
  by the relative per capita income for each State. One-third (1/3) of the amount
  appropriated is allotted to each State according to the ratio of beneficiaries in the
  State receiving benefits under Childhood Disabilities Beneficiary Program,
  related to the age 18 to 65 population of the State as bearing on the national total
  of such population, weighted by the total population of the State. The data used
  to compute allotments are supplied annually by the Social Security
  Administration and the U.S. Department of Commerce, for the three most recent
  consecutive years for which satisfactory data are available. The Federal share of
  projects supported under the State Plan may not exceed 75 percent, except for
  projects whose activities or products target individuals with developmental
  disabilities who live in urban or rural poverty areas, which may not exceed 90
  percent of the aggregate necessary costs of such project of activities, and in the
  case of projects or activities undertaken by the Council or Council staff to
  implement State plan priority, activities may be up to 100 percent of the
  aggregate necessary cost of such activities. No match is required for Protection
  and Advocacy allotments.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds provided under allotments must be obligated by states by the end of the
  fiscal year following the fiscal year for which appropriations were received.
  Such obligation must be liquidated by the end of the following fiscal year.
  Payments are made through Electronic Transfer System or, when such is not
  practicable, on basis of payment requests from the State to meet current needs.
Reports:
  Annual financial status reports and annual program performance reports for
  Protection and Advocacy and Basic Support grant programs are required.
Audits:
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.
Records:
  Records must be retained for at least 3 years; records shall be retained beyond
  the 3-year period if all findings have not been resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-1536-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $110,489,000; FY 08 $111,506,000; and FY 09
  est $111,506,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Basic Support: $450,000; Protection and Advocacy: $200,000.
                                                                                    1465
