  93.632, University Centers for Excellence in Developmental Disabilities            
  Education, Research, and Service.                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  The Projects of National Significance program has funded projects which will:      
  (1) Identify model programs that focus on self/familial advocacy and               
  empowerment by persons with disabilities and their families; (2) projects that     
  focus on individuals and ways in which recreation and leisure activities have      
  aided their integration into the community; (3) projects that assess the needs of  
  and focus on the provision of services for children at-risk of developmental       
  disabilities; (4) collaborative projects that implement leadership models; (5)     
  projects that demonstrate successful approaches to home ownership by persons       
  with disabilities; (6) projects that assist families with children who have severe 
  and profound developmental disabilities to maintain their children at home while   
  at the same time insuring the well-being and integrity of the family unit; (7)     
  projects to support families who have members with Developmental Disabilities;     
  (8) projects supporting minorities who have Developmental Disabilities; and (9)    
  projects to provide personal assistance services for persons with disabilities.    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  No application can be approved unless it shows/provides evidence of its non-       
  profit status and the State in which the applicant's project will be conducted has 
  an approved DD State plan under this Act. Applications are also to be reviewed     
  by the State Developmental Disabilities Council for the State in which it is to be 
  conducted. Project's proposed design is complete and feasible, and includes        
  measurable objectives and an evaluation component. Project does not supplant       
  activities that are funded under other Federal programs. Competing grant           
  applications will be reviewed and evaluated against criteria that are specified in 
  each published program announcement.                                               
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.632 UNIVERSITY CENTERS FOR EXCELLENCE IN                                          
DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES EDUCATION,                                                
RESEARCH, AND SERVICE                                                                
                                                                                     
   (University Centers (UCEDD))                                                      
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                            
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Mental Retardation Facilities and Construction Act of 1963, Title I, Part B,       
  Public Law 88-164, as amended, Public Laws 91-517, 94-103, 95-602; Omnibus         
  Budget Reconciliation Act of 1981, as amended, Public Law 97-35;                   
  Developmental Disabilities Act of 1984; Developmental Disabilities Assistance      
  and Bill of Rights Act, as amended, Title I, Section 100, Public Law 98-527;       
  Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act Amendments of         
  1987, Public Law 100-146, Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of        
  Rights Act of 1990, Public Law 101-496; Developmental Disabilities Assistance      
  and Bill of Rights Act of 1994, Public Law 103-230; Developmental Disabilities     
  Assistance and Bill of Rights Act Amendments of 1996, Public Law 104-183;          
  Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000, Public       
  Law 106-402, 42 U.S.C. 15061 - 15066.                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To defray the cost of administration and operation of programs that: (1) Provide   
  interdisciplinary training for personnel concerned with developmental              
  disabilities; (2) demonstrate community service activities that include training   
  and technical assistance and may include direct services, e.g., family support,    
  individual support, personal assistance services, educational, vocational,         
  clinical, health and prevention; (3) conduct research (basic and applied),         
  evaluation and analysis of public policy in areas affecting individuals with       
  developmental disabilities; and (4) disseminate information as a national and      
  international resource.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Salaries for administrators, coordinators, and others needed to operate a training 
  facility, maintenance and housekeeping personnel, overhead expenses, and           
  expenses required to start up new programs, and faculty for training programs      
  who will meet critical manpower shortages and are not eligible for support from    
  other sources.                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  A public or nonprofit entity which is associated with, or is an integral part of a 
  college or university and which provides at least: interdisciplinary training;     
  demonstration of exemplary services, technical assistance, research and            
  dissemination of findings.                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Individuals of all ages with developmental disabilities attributable to a mental   
  and/or physical impairment, their families, and personnel and trainees providing   
  services to them.                                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:

  Assurance of maintenance of effort; statement of financial resources, especially   


                                                                                11-08
  other federally-assisted programs; identification of personnel needs and
  resources as found in developmental disabilities State Plans for the applicant's
  service area; evaluation of present training programs and utilization of space in
  the facility; and capability of informing researchers and others in development of
  services related research.
Preapplication Coordination:
  No preapplication form is required. Consultation and assistance in preparing
  application is available at the DHHS Central Office. This program is excluded
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application forms are available from the DHHS Central Office. Completed
  application forms and narrative should be sent to the State Developmental
  Disabilities Council, Designated State Agency and Protection and Advocacy
  agency for review and comment. The standard application forms, as furnished by
  DHHS must be used for this program.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are evaluated by outside peer reviews and grants are awarded at the
  DHHS ADD Central Office. Recommendations for funding are made by the
  Headquarters Office.
Deadlines:
  Contact DHHS Central Office for future deadline information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 45 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  Appeals are processed in accordance with regulations in 45 CFR, Part 16.
Renewals:
  Same as Application Procedure.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Federal share of project grant awarded
  may not exceed 75 percent of the necessary cost of project, except that if project
  activities or products target individuals with developmental disabilities who live
  in an urban or rural area, the Federal share may not exceed 90 percent of the
  project's necessary costs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  University Centers awards are made for 5 years with a 12-month budget period.
Reports:
  An annual progress report is required. Fiscal reports are required as prescribed
  by grant specifications. Final progress report is required upon project
  completion.
Audits:
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.
Records:
  Records must be maintained for 3 years.
Account Identification:
  75-1536-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $33,212,000; FY 08 $36,943,000; and FY 09 est
  $36,943,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  All University Centers are awarded the same amount. The FY 2006 amount was
  $497,500. The amount for FY 2008 is $522,500. The projected amount for FY
  2009 is $522,500.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, 67 grants were awarded. In FY 08 and FY 09, it is anticipated that 75
  grants will be awarded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations are published in Chapter XIII of Title 45 of the Code of Federal
  Regulations, Part 1388.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Administration on Developmental Disabilities, Administration for Children and
  Families, Department of Health and Human Services, 370 L'Enfant Promenade,
  SW., Washington, DC 20447. Telephone: (202) 690-5982. Contact: Jennifer
  Johnson. FTS is not available.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/add.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.630, Developmental Disabilities Basic Support and Advocacy Grants;
  93.631, Developmental Disabilities Projects of National Significance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grants are funded to assist in the operation of public or nonprofit facilities
  which are associated with a college or university and provide training programs
  and delivery of services for persons with developmental disabilities. In addition,
  tied to the level of funds appropriated, training grants may be awarded to the
  University Centers.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  University Centers must address the provisions of the Act and regulations.
93.643 CHILDREN'S JUSTICE GRANTS TO STATES
                                                                                 1467
