FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                            
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Section 107(a),(b),(c),(d),(e) and (f), Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act   
  (CAPTA), 42 U.S.C.5106c et. seq., as amended; Public Law 108-36; Victims of        
  Crime Act of 1984, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 10601 et seq.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To encourage States to enact reforms which are designed to improve: (a) The        
  handling of child abuse and neglect cases, particularly cases of child sexual      
  abuse and exploitation, in a manner which limits additional trauma to the child    
  victim; (b) the handling of cases of suspected child abuse or neglect related      
  fatalities; (c) the investigation and prosecution of cases of child abuse and      
  neglect, particularly child sexual abuse and exploitation; and (d) the handling of 
  cases involving children with disabilities or serious health-related problems who  
  are victims of abuse or neglect.                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  To receive funds, States must meet eligibility requirements stated in the          
  authorizing statute. Funds are to be used for reforms in the following categories: 
  (a) Investigative, administrative, and judicial handling of cases of child abuse   
  and neglect, particularly child sexual abuse and exploitation; cases involving     
  suspected child maltreatment related fatalities; and cases involving a potential   
  combination of jurisdictions, such as interstate, Federal-State, and State-Tribal, 
  in a manner which reduces the additional trauma to the child victim and the        
  victim's family and which also ensures procedural fairness to the accused; (b)     
  experimental, model and demonstration programs for testing innovative              
  approaches and techniques which may improve the prompt and successful              
  resolution of civil and criminal court proceedings, or enhance the effectiveness   
  of judicial and administrative action in child abuse and neglect cases,            
  particularly child sexual abuse and exploitation cases, including the              
  enhancement of performance of court-appointed attorneys and guardians ad           
                                                                                     
  litem for children, and which also ensure procedural fairness to the accused; and

                                                                                     
  (c) reform of State laws, ordinances, regulations, protocols and procedures to

                                                                                     
  provide comprehensive protection for children from abuse, particularly child

                                                                                     
  sexual abuse and exploitation, while ensuring fairness to all affected persons.

Applicant Eligibility:

  States, Puerto Rico, District of Columbia, Virgin Islands, Guam, American          
  Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas.                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Beneficiaries include State governments and victims of child abuse and neglect,    
  particularly child sexual abuse and exploitation.                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicable costs and administrative procedures will be determined in               
  accordance with 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92. Applications require certification         
  and/or documentation that the State meets eligibility requirements described in    
  the Act.                                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  No preapplication is required. Advice and technical assistance to State            
  applicants are available from the Children's Bureau, Office on Child Abuse and     
  Neglect within the Administration on Children, Youth and Families. This            
  program is covered under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal          
  Programs" for State plan consolidations and simplification only (see 45 CFR        
  Part 100.12). Review and comment provisions do not apply.                          
Application Procedure:                                                               
  No Federal forms are required, but certain assurances and information described    
  in the Annual Program Instruction must be included.                                
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications will be reviewed against all eligibility requirements contained in    
  the authorizing legislation. All eligible State and territorial governments will   
  receive funding.                                                                   
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines will be contained in the Program Instruction sent to each State and      
  other eligible entities announcing the availability of funds under this program.   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 2 to 3 months.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  Appeals are processed in accordance with HHS regulations in 45 CFR, Part 16.       
Renewals:                                                                            
  Grants are made annually. A new application is required each year.                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  There is no matching requirement. Each State receives a base amount of $50,000     
  with an additional amount based on the population of children under age 18 in      
  each State.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grant funds may be expended for a period of 2 years after the end of the fiscal

                                                                                     
  year in which the funds are awarded.

                                                                                     
Reports:

                                                                                     
  Financial and program progress reporting requirements are described in the

                                                                                     


1468                                                                           11-08

  Program Instructions.
Audits:
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.
Records:
  Records must be kept in accordance with 45 CFR, Parts 74 and 92.
Account Identification:
  15-5041-0-2-754.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $17,000,000; FY 08 $17,000,000; and FY 09 est $17,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Grants ranged from $54,104 to $1,895,572 in FY 07 and it is estimated that
  grants will range from $54,104 to $1,895,572 in FY 08 and FY09. The average
  amount awarded is $303,571.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Grants were made to 49 States (including the District of Columbia.) and four
  territorial governments in fiscal year 2007; 49 States are expected to be funded
  for fiscal year 2008 and 50 in 2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  All pertinent instructions are contained in the annual Program Instruction.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Catherine E. Luby, Office on Child Abuse and Neglect, 1250 Maryland Avenue
  S.W., 8th Floor Washington, DC 20024. Telephone: (202) 205-8879.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/cb.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.645, Child Welfare Services_State Grants; 93.667, Social Services Block
  Grant; 93.669, Child Abuse and Neglect State Grants; 93.670, Child Abuse and
  Neglect Discretionary Activities; 93.671, Family Violence Prevention and
  Services/Grants for Battered Women's Shelters_Grants to States and Indian
  Tribes.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  States which meet all eligibility requirements and propose projects which meet
  the required uses of these funds will receive grants.
93.645 CHILD WELFARE SERVICES-STATE GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Social Security Act, Title IV-B, Subpart 1, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of the Child Welfare Services program is to promote State
  flexibility in the development and expansion of a coordinated child and family
  services program that utilizes community-based agencies and ensures all
  children are raised in safe, loving families.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for the following purposes: (a) Protecting and promoting the
  welfare of all children; (b) Preventing the abuse, neglect, or exploitation of
  children; (c) Supporting at-risk families through services that allow children to
  remain with their families or return to their families in a timely manner; (d)
  Promoting the safety, permanence, and well-being of children in foster care and
  adoptive families; and (e) Providing training, professional develoment, and
  support to ensure a well-qualified workforce.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, the District of Columbia, Indian Tribes, Puerto Rico, the Northern
  Marianas, the Virgin Islands, Guam, and American Samoa.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Families and children in need of child welfare services will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The State department which administers the services program under Title XX
  must be the designated single State agency to administer child welfare services.
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 45 CFR Part 92.
Preapplication Coordination:
  State plans are covered under E.O. 12372, but Intergovernmental Review is
  excluded.
Application Procedure:
  A 5-year State plan must be submitted. The plan must be jointly developed by
  the Secretary and the State or Indian Tribe and written after State agency
  consultation with appropriate public and nonprofit private agencies and
  community-based organizations. The plan must coordinate the provision of
  services under Title IV-B with services under other Federal or federally-assisted
  programs serving the same populations.
Award Procedure:
  Funds will be awarded after the State plan, or annual update, is submitted and
