  approved.                                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                           
  States, Territories and Indian Tribes are encouraged to submit application in      
  accordance with Department requirements. The Plan or update submitted is due       
  by June 30 of each year.                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The Plan or update that is due on June 30 of each year must be approved by 9/30    
  in order to receive timely funding.                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  Appeals are processed in accordance with HHS regulations in 45 CFR 16.             
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Each State receives a base amount of $70,000 for child welfare services. The       
  Federal Child Welfare services appropriation is further allotted on a variable     
  formula which takes into account the child population under 21 and the             
  complement of the State per capita income compared to the U.S per capita           
  income. The statistical factors used to fund allocations are: (1) the population of
  children under 21 years of age by State and the source is "Current Population      
  Reports", P-25, Bureau of the Census; and (2) 3-year average per capita income     
  by State and the source is the Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of          
  Commerce. Income factors for eligibility do not apply to this program. Grantees    
  receive Federal matching at a rate of 75 percent of their expenditures up to the   
  limit of their allocation.                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grant awards are made quarterly on a fiscal year basis through a letter of credit. 
  The Electronic Transfer System will be used for monthly cash draw-downs from       
  Federal Reserve Banks.                                                             
Reports:                                                                             
  After the end of each of the first four fiscal years, the States, Territories, and 
  Indian Tribes must submit an interim review of progress toward accomplishment      
  of the goals in the plan. After the end of the fifth fiscal year, the States and   
  Indian Tribes must perform a final review of progress toward accomplishment of     
  the goals.                                                                         
Audits:                                                                              
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.      
Records:                                                                             
  States are required to maintain adequate fiscal records, and to make reports as    
  required by DHHS.                                                                  
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-1536-0-1-506.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $286,754,000; FY 08 $281,744,000; and est FY 09                     
  $281,744,000.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  States: For Fiscal Years 07 award amounts ranged from $163,468 to                  
  $33,565,519 with an Average grant award of $1,346,262; Tribes $892 to              
  $985,454 with an average of $36,376. These estimated ranges will change very       
  slightly for FY 08 and FY 09.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal year 2007, 213 grants were awarded. It is anticipated that 213 grants    
  will be awarded in fiscal year 2008 and fiscal year 2009.                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  45 CFR 1355 and 45 CFR 1357.                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Contact Regional Administrator, ACY. (See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a         
  list of addresses of the Regional offices.)                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Headquarters Office: Sara Williams Children's Bureau, Administration for           
  Children and Families,1250 Maryland Avenue S.W., Washington, DC 20024.             
  Telephone: (202) 205-7405.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/cb .                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.556, Promoting Safe and Stable Families; 84.013, Title I Program for            
  Neglected and Delinquent Children; 93.600, Head Start; 93.648, Child Welfare       
  Services Training Grants; 93.658, Foster Care_Title IV-E; 93.659, Adoption

                                                                                     
  Assistance; 93.667, Social Services Block Grant.                                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  None.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.647 SOCIAL SERVICES RESEARCH AND                                                  
DEMONSTRATION                                                                        
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                            
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       


                                                                                11-08
  Social Security Act, Title XI, Section 1110, as amended by Public Laws 86-778,
  88-452, 90-248, 96-265, and 99-190; 42 U.S.C. 1310.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote research and demonstrations related to the prevention and reduction
  of dependency or the administration and effectiveness of programs related to that
  purpose.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants, cooperative agreements, and contracts are awarded for innovative
  research, demonstrations, and evaluations that are responsive to the
  Administration for Children and Families' (ACF) program priorities. All
  applications must meet standards of excellence in research, demonstration, or
  evaluation design. Construction or the purchase of real estate are not allowable
  under these grants or contracts. Further, these funds may not be used to
  supplement the cost of program operations otherwise capped under the law.
  Organizations may not use funds under these grants or contracts to engage in
  inherently religious activities, such as worship, religious instructions, or
  proselytization. In addition, an organization receiving ACF funds shall not, in
  providing ACF-funded services, discriminate against a program beneficiary or
  prospective program beneficiary on the basis of religion or religious belief.
  Regulations pertaining to the Equal Treatment for Faith-Based Organizations,
  which include the prohibition against Federal funding of inherently religious
  activities, as well as provisions related to nondiscrimination against religious
  organizations and the ability of religious organizations to maintain their
  religious character, can be found at either 45 CFR 87.1 or the HHS Web site at
  http://www.os.dhhs.gov/fbci/waisgate21.pdf.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Grants and cooperative agreements may be made to or with governmental
  entities, colleges, universities, nonprofit and for-profit organizations (if fee is
  waived), and faith-based and community organizations. Grants or cooperative
  agreements cannot be made directly to individuals. Contracts may be awarded to
  nonprofit or for-profit organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Children, youth, and families, especially low-income families, will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must present written evidence of other agencies' willingness to
  cooperate when the project involves the use of other agencies, facilities, or
  services. Nonprofit organizations which have not previously received ACF
  program support must submit proof of nonprofit status. For State and local
  governments, costs will be determined in accordance with 45 CFR Part 92 and
  OMB Circular No. A-87. For other grantees, applicable costs and administrative
  procedures will be determined in accordance with 45 CFR Parts 74 and 92.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants will be able to find a synopsis of grant or cooperative agreement
  opportunities and apply electronically for opportunities via: www.Grants.gov.
  Applicants will also be able to find the complete text of grant announcements on
  the ACF web site located at: http://www.acf.hhs.gov/grants/index.html.
Award Procedure:
  Official notice of approved grant applications is made through issuance of a
  Financial Assistance Award (FAA). This provides the amount awarded, the
  purpose of the award, the terms and conditions of the award, the budget period
  for which support is given, the total project period for which support is
  contemplated, and the total grantee participation. Official notice of an accepted
  contract proposal is made through award of a contract.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines for grants and cooperative agreements are announced in
  www.grants.gov as part of the announcement or are mailed to State Agencies
  where applicants are limited to those agencies. Deadlines for requests for
  contract proposals are posted on www.fedbizopps.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 365 days. Generally, solicited grants, cooperative agreements, and
  contracts will be acted upon within 120 days.
Appeals:
  Appeals are processed in accordance with HHS regulations in 45 CFR Part 16.
Renewals:
  Grant extensions and continuations are available if formally applied for and
  approved. If an application is recommended for approval for 2 or more years, the
  grantee or contractor must submit a formal request for a non-competitive
  continuation application each year accompanied by a progress report which will
  be evaluated prior to a recommendation of continuation. This process is not
  applicable to contracts.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grantees are generally required to share in the cost of projects. Cost sharing may
                                                                                  1469
