  Administration On Children, Youth and Families, 1250 Maryland Avenue S.W.,          
  Washington, DC 20024. Telephone: (202) 205-8405.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/cb.                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.645, Child Welfare Services_State Grants.                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Interdisciplinary training projects; projects to support professional education for 
  child welfare practices; innovative training for exemplary practice; and cross      
  program training.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  An assessment is made of: (1) The degree to which the proposal shows promise        
  of meeting specific objectives defined in the annual program announcement; (2)      
  reasonableness of cost; and (3) qualifications of the institution applying and      
  staff, and (4) quality of the methodology.                                          
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.652 ADOPTION OPPORTUNITIES                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                             
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment and Adoption Reform Act of 1978, Title         
  II, as amended by Public Law 95-266; Public Law 100-294; Public Law 102-            
  295; Public Law 104-235 and Public Law 108-36 (42 U.S.C. 5111 et seq.)              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To facilitate the elimination of barriers to adoption and to provide                
  permanent,loving home environments for children who would benefit from              
  adoption, particularly children with special needs.                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Contracts).                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants and contracts are for (1) education, training and technical assistance       
  programs on adoption, (2) ongoing and extensive recruitment on the national         
  level, (3) supporting and studying the placement of children in kinship care        
  arrangements, pre-adoptive, or adoptive homes, (4) maintain a nation resource       
  center for special needs adoption, (5) minority recruitment, (6) provision of post  
  legal adoption services, (7) improving the permanent placement rate of children,    
  especially older children, in foster care, and (8) developing and implementing a    
  national adoption and foster care data gathering and analysis system and a          
  national adoption information exchange system.                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Grants or Contracts: State, local government entities, public or private licensed   
  child welfare or adoption agencies or community based other organizations, or       
  adoptive family groups, minority groups, sectarian institutions.                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Children who are in foster care and with the goal of adoption.                      
Credentials/Documentation:

  Nonprofit organizations which have not previously had Office of Management          
  Services or ACF support must submit proof of nonprofit status. Applicable costs     
  and administrative procedures will be determined by 45 CFR 74 and 92.               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Limited consultation available at Headquarters Office. The standard application     
  forms as furnished by DHHS must be used for this program. This program is           
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications must be submitted to The Administration on Children, Youth and         
  Families Headquarters Office listed below.                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  After review and recommendation by a nonfederal panel, the Commissioner,            
  ACYF, makes final decision.                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Determined annually and specified in the annual program announcement which          
  appears in the Federal Register.                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 90 to 180 days.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                              
  Appeals are processed in accordance with HHS regulations in 45 CFR Part 16.         
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewals are available for multi-year grants through formal submission of           
  progress reports and continuation applications. Funding for multi-year grants is    
  provided on an annual basis.                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements; however,            
  administratively-required matching is described in the annual program               
  announcement.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Grants may extend from 3 to 5 years. Average duration is expected to be 5 years.    
Reports:                                                                              
  Financial reports, semi-annual financial reports and progress reports. Final        
  progress report, financial report due 90 days after completion of grant.            


                                                                                 11-08
Audits:
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.
Records:
  Grantees are required to keep financial and other grant records for 3 years after
  the completion of the grant or completion of audit whichever occurs first.
Account Identification:
  75-1536-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Contracts) FY 07 $26,848,000; FY 08 $26,379,000; and FY 09 est
  $26,379,000. (Note: The funds in this program are also available for program
  contracts. The amounts that can be used for contracts cannot be predetermined.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $200,000 to $1,000,000; $300,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 56 grantees were awarded funds. It is anticipated that
  approximately 48 grants will be awarded in fiscal year 2008 and approximately
  48 grants in FY 09.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Priority statements, application information and submission deadline available at
  no charge.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Children's Bureau, Administration for Children and Families, 1250 Maryland
  Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20024. Contact: Jan Shafer, Telephone: (202)
  205-8172.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/cb.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.645, Child Welfare Services_State Grants; 93.648, Child Welfare Services
  Training Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Developing services and support for youth who wish to retain contact with
  family members in order to improve permanency outcomes; and Field Initiated
  Services Demonstration projects in the adoption field. The Healthy Marriage
  Initiative, which began in 2002, is designed to help couples who have chosen
  marriage for themselves gain access to services that will help them acquire the
  skills and knowledge necessary to form and sustain a healthy marriage. The
  Administration for Children and Families (ACF) began awarding the initial
  grants in 2003.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  An assessment is made of: (1) The degree to which proposal shows promise of
  meeting specific objectives defined in a program announcement; (2) innovation
  and advancement of the field, (3) reasonableness of cost; and (4) qualification of
  staff.
93.658 FOSTER CARE-TITLE IV-E
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Social Security Act, as amended, Title IV-E, Section 470, et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  The Title IV-E Foster Care program helps States provide safe and stable out-of-
  home care for children under the jurisdiction of the State child welfare agency
  until the children are returned home safely; placed with adoptive families, or
  placed in other planned arrangements for permanency. The program provides
  funds to States to assist with the costs of foster care maintenance for eligible
  children; administrative costs to manage the program; and training for the State
  agency staff, foster parents and certain private agency staff.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used by the State child welfare agency for FFP in State or local
  foster care maintenance payments on behalf of eligible children; for
  administrative and training costs; and for costs related to design, implement and
  operate a statewide data collection system. funds ma not be used for costs of
  social services such as those that provide counseling or treatment to ameliorate
  or remedy personal problem, behaviors, or home conditions for a child, the
  child's family, or the childs foster family.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs are be determined in accordance with 45 CFR 74.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Consultation is available to States from Regional Administration for Children
  and Families (ACF) offices. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
                                                                                 1471
