PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Adoption subsidy payments are made to eligible children with special needs who       
  are adopted. In fiscal year 2007, this program assisted an estimated average of      
  390,200 children per month. It is estimated that this program will assist an         
  average of 411,700 children per month in fiscal year 2008 and 430,000 in FY          
  2009. There were 52 grants made in fiscal year 2007. It is estimated that 52         
  grants will be made in fiscal year 2008 and 52 grants in fiscal year 2009.           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Notice of Proposed Rulemaking; 45 CFR 1355-1356.                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Contact the Regional Administrator, ACF, HHS in the appropriate Regional             
  Office. (See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a list of addresses of the Regional      
  Offices.)                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Eileen West, Children's Bureau, 1250 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC           
  20447. Telephone: (202) 205-8438.                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.acf.hhs.gov/programs/cb.                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  93.556, Promoting Safe and Stable Families; 93.645, Child Welfare                    
  Services_State Grants; 93.652, Adoption Opportunities; 93.658, Foster                
  Care_Title IV-E.                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  None.                                                                                
                                                                                       
93.667 SOCIAL SERVICES BLOCK GRANT                                                     
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Social Security Act, Title XX, as amended; Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act         
  of 1981, as amended, Public Law 97-35; Jobs Training Bill, Public Law 98-8;          
  Public Law 98-473; Medicaid and Medicare Patient and Program Act of 1987;            
  Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1987, Public Law 100-203; Family                
  Support Act of 1988, Public Law 100-485; Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act           
  of 1993, Public Law 103-66; 42 U.S.C. 1397 ET seq.                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To enable each State to furnish social services best suited to the needs of the      
  individuals residing in the State. Federal block grant funds may be used to          
  provide services directed toward one of the following five goals specified in the    
  law: (1) To prevent, reduce, or eliminate dependency; (2) to achieve or maintain     
  self-sufficiency; (3) to prevent neglect, abuse, or exploitation of children and     
  adults; (4) to prevent or reduce inappropriate institutional care; and (5) to secure 
  admission or referral for institutional care when other forms of care are not        
  appropriate. In addition, special funding was provided to some states in fiscal      
  year 1995 and 1996 for supplemental SSBG grants in support comprehensive of          
  community revitalization projects in 104 federally designated Empowerment            
  Zones (EZs) and Enterprise Communities (ECs). The supplemental funding is            
  called "EZ/EC SSBG." The States, through the designated localities, may use the      
  EZ/EC SSBG funds for activites included in each locality's strategic plan for        
  comprehensive revitalization and directed toward goals 1,2 or 3 listed above.        
  These funds will remain available until December 21, 2004. Information about         
  this component of the SSBG is included below as appropriate.                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Federal funds may be used by States for the proper and efficient operation of        
  social service programs. Except for items (1) and (4) below, for which a waiver      
  from the Secretary may be requested, Federal funds cannot be used for the            
  following: (1) The purchase or improvement of land, or the purchase,                 
  construction, or permanent improvement of any building or other facility; (2) the    
  provision of cash payments for costs of subsistence or the provision of room and     
  board (other than costs of subsistence during rehabilitation, room and board         
  provided for a short term as an integral but subordinate part of a social service,   
  or temporary shelter provided as a protective service); (3) the payment of wages     
  to any individual as a social service (other than payment of wages to welfare        
  recipients employed in the provision of child day care services); (4) the            
  provision of medical care (other than family planning services, rehabilitation       
  services or initial detoxification of an alcoholic or drug dependent individual)     
  unless it is an integral but subordinate part of a social service for which grants   
  may be used; (5) social services (except services to an alcoholic or drug            
  dependent individual or rehabilitation services) provided in and by employees of     
  any hospital, skilled nursing facility, intermediate care facility, or prison, to any
  individual living in such institution; (6) the provision of any educational service  
  which the State makes generally available to its residents without cost and          
  without regard to their income; (7) any child day care service unless such service   
  meets applicable standards of State and local law; (8) the provision of cash         


                                                                                  11-08
  payments as a service; or (9) for payment for any item or service (other than an
  emergency item or service) furnished by an individual or entity during the period
  when such individual or entity is excluded pursuant to Section 1128 or Section
  1128(A) of the Social Security Act from participation in this program; or at the
  medical direction or on the prescription of a physician during the period when
  the physician is excluded based on Section 1128 or 1128(A) from participation
  in the program and when the person furnishing such item or service knew or had
  reason to know of the exclusion (after a reasonable time period after reasonable
  notice has been furnished to the person). A State may transfer up to 10 percent
  of its allotment for any fiscal year to the preventive health and health services,
  alcohol and drug abuse, mental health services, maternal and child health
  services, and low-income home energy assistance block grants.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The 50 States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Guam, the Virgin Islands,
  the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Under Title XX, each eligible jurisdiction determines the services that will be
  provided and the individuals that will be eligible to receive services.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Prior to expenditure of funds, the State must report on the intended use of the
  payments the State is to receive, including information on the types of activities
  to be supported and the categories or characteristics of individuals to be served.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submission of a pre-expenditure report application is required.
Award Procedure:
  States are awarded funds quarterly.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  See 45 CFR, Part 16, Procedures of the Departmental Appeals Board.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Section 2003 of Title XX of the Social Security Act specifies how the allotments
  for each State and jurisdiction will be determined. Each State is entitled to
  payments in an amount equal to its allotment for that fiscal year. There is no
  matching requirement. Allotments for Title XX are subject to a limitation of
  $2,800,000,000 (estimate). The allotment for the jurisdictions of Puerto Rico,
  Guam, the Virgin Islands, and the Northern Mariana Islands shall be an amount
  which bears the same ratio to the amount authorized for Title XX as the fiscal
  year 1981 allocation bore to $2,900,000,000. The allotment for American Samoa
  shall be an amount which bears the same ratio to the amount allotted to the
  Northern Mariana Islands for that fiscal year as the population of American
  Samoa bears to the population of the Northern Mariana Islands. Each State's and
  the District of Columbia's allotment are proportional to its portion of the national
  population of the amount authorized for Title XX minus the amount authorized
  to the other jurisdictions. The statistical factors used for fund allocation are the
  State population and total U.S. population (ratio of population of all States and
  the District of Columbia to total population); source, "Current Population
  Reports," P- 25, Bureau of the Census.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded quarterly on a fiscal year basis. The Electronic Transfer
  System will be used based on quarterly grant awards for monthly cash draws
  from Federal Reserve Banks. The funds will remain available for projects and
  programs in the designated localities until December 21, 2004.)
Reports:
  An annual report is required. The report shall be in such form and contain such
  information as the State finds necessary to provide an accurate description of
  such activities, to secure a complete record of the purposes for which funds were
  spent, and to determine the extent to which funds were spent in a manner
  consistent with the pre-expenditure reports required under Section 2004 of the
  Act. The report must include the services provided in whole or in part with block
  grant funds; the number of children and the number of adults receiving each
  service; expenditure data for both children and adults for each service; the
  criteria applied in determining eligibility for each service, including fees; and
  the method(s) by which each service was provided. States must provide DHHS
  with an annual report (Standard Form 269). For EZ/EC SSBG, States are also
  required to provide a final report at the end of the grant period. The grant period
  ends for EZ/EC SSBG on December 21, 2004.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised June
  27, 2003)," Audits of States, Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations,"
  Non-Federal entities that expend $300,000 ($500,000 for fiscal years ending
  after December 31, 2003) or more in a year in Federal awards shall have a single
  or program-specific audit conducted for that year in accordance with the
  provisions of this part. Non-Federal entities that expend less than $300,000
                                                                                   1473
