Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 45 CFR Part 92.                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Applications must include the information and assurances required from the         
  States. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                   
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applications must be submitted by a State to the appropriate Regional              
  Administrator for the Administration for Children (ACF).                           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Quarterly awards are made up to the amount of one-fourth of the State's annual     
  allotment.                                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                           
  June 30, of each year.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  None.                                                                              
Appeals:                                                                             
  Appeals are processed in accordance with HHS regulations in 45 CFR Part 16.        
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Each state is allotted an amount of funds which bears the same ratio as the        
  number of children in foster care in that State bears to the total number of       
  children in foster care in all States in the most recent fiscal year for which such
  information is available. Data submitted by States into the Adoption and Foster    
  Care Analysis and Reporting System's (AFCARS) national database will be used       
  to calculate State allotments. The Federal government will pay 80 percent of the   
  total amount of funds expended by the States (less any penalties) up to the        
  amount of CFCIP funds allotted to the State. The State must provide matching       
  contributions to cover the additional 20 percent of the costs.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grant awards are made quarterly on a fiscal year basis.                            
Reports:                                                                             
  States are required to submit expenditure reports and annual program reports.      
Audits:                                                                              
  Audits are conducted in accordance with the requirements in 45 CFR 74 and 92.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  States are required to maintain supporting documentation of activities and

                                                                                     
  adequate fiscal records.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  75-1545-0-1-609.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  (Formula Grants) FY 07 $139,950,011; FY 08 $140,000,000; and FY 09 est

                                                                                     
  140,000,000.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                     
  $500,000 to $20,953,350; $2,691,363.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal year 2007, 52 grants were made in the mandatory grant program. It is     
  estimated that the same number of grants will be awarded in fiscal years 2008      
  and 2009. The program also supports Training and Technical Assistance through      
  a National Resource Center and supports evaluation efforts of the program in FY    
  07, FY 08, and FY 09 for approximately $2.1 million.                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Program Instruction (PI) ACYF-CB-PI-01-02, dates February 13, 2001.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Contact Regional Administration for Children and Families. (See Appendix IV        
  of the Catalog for addresses.)                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Pamela Johnson Children's Bureau, Administration for Children and Families,        
  1250 Maryland Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20024, 8th Floor. Telephone:            
  (202) 205-8086.                                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.acf.dhhs.gov/programs/cb.                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.550, Transitional Living for Homeless Youth; 93.556, Promoting Safe and         
  Stable Families; 93.645, Child Welfare Services_State Grants; 93.658, Foster       
                                                                                     
  Care_Title IV-E.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                     
  None.

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  States meeting requirements for entitlement funds will receive grants.             
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.676 UNACCOMPANIED ALIEN CHILDREN PROGRAM                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  ADMINISTRATION FOR CHILDREN AND FAMILIES, DEPARTMENT OF                            
  HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296, Section 462.                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Unaccompanied Alien Children (UAC) program was transferred to ORR              
  from the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) on March 1, 2003, pursuant          


                                                                                11-08
  to section 462 of the Homeland Security Act. The program is designed to
  provide for the care and placement of unaccompanied alien minors who are
  apprehended in the U.S. by Homeland Security agents, Border patrol officers, or
  other law enforcement agencies and are taken into care pending resolution of
  their claims for relief under U.S. immigration law or released to adult family
  members or responsible adult guardians. Resolution of their claims may result
  in release, granting of an immigration status (such as special immigrant juvenile
  or asylum), voluntary departure, or removal.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used only for the purposes set forth in the grant and/or contract.
  Services may be provided only to unaccompanied alien children who are
  apprehended by agents of the Bureau of Border Security, Bureau of Citizenship
  and Immigration Services (BCIS), or other law enforcement agencies.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local governments, private non-profit organizations, and private for-
  profit organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries are unaccompanied alien children who are in Federal custody by
  reason of their immigration status.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost principles for private nonprofit organizations will be determined by OMB
  Circular No. A-122. Cost principles for state and local governments are found
  under OMB Circular No. A-87. Cost principles governing private for-profit
  organizations are found under OMB Circular No. A-76.
Preapplication Coordination:
  ORR may enter into contracts or grants after full and open competition pursuant
  to regulations. However, special regulations permit other than full and open
  competition under any of the following circumstances: only one responsible
  source and no other supplies or services will satisfy agency requirements, expert
  services, unusual and compelling urgency, international agreement, national
  security, public interest, and authorized or required by statute. Any exemption
  requires documentation by the grants or contracting officer of the justification
  for any one of the circumstances listed above. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications submitted in response to program announcements under this
  program will undergo a pre-review to determine if applicant is eligible for
  funding.
Award Procedure:
  Applications found to be eligible for funding will undergo an evaluation by an
  independent review panel. In the case of emergency, staff will review on the
  basis of specific evaluation criteria to determine applicant qualification based
  upon published review criteria, quality of services to be rendered, and the
  likelihood of the program success.
Deadlines:
  The Director may invite applications, if necessary, due to unusual and
  compelling urgency of unaccompanied alien children apprehended by border
  patrol officers, BCIS agents or other law enforcement agencies. Deadlines for
  applications are noted in notices of funds of availability. Generally, the deadline
  for grant applications is 60 days after posting of the notice of funds availability.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  It is anticipated that the approval/disapproval time will not exceed 30 days in
  urgent situation, and will not exceed 90 days in normal application situation.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Contingent upon appropriations, grantee performance, and whether continuation
  of funding is in the best interest of the government.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant awards are made on an as needed basis, and on an annual budget basis.
Reports:
  Monthly progress reports of placements are required. Progress and financial
  reports are required, usually on a quarterly or semi-annual basis. Final program
  and financial reports summarizing the activities and accomplishments of the
  program in relation to the approved goals and objectives are also required.
Audits:
  Periodic audits are made as part of the system of financial management and
  internal control to meet terms and conditions of grants, contracts, and other
  agreements. "In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133
  (Revised, June 27, 1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations, nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $300,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133." Nonprofit organizations receiving less
  than $25,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from federal audit
                                                                                   1477
