CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  None.                                                                                
                                                                                       
93.767 STATE CHILDREN'S INSURANCE PROGRAM                                              
                                                                                       
   (CHIP; SCHIP)                                                                       
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES, DEPARTMENT                               
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Balanced Budget Act of 1997, Title XXI, Subtitle J, Section 4901, Public Law         
  105-33; Public Law 105-100 and Medicare, Medicaid and SCHIP Balanced                 
  Budget Refinement Act of 1999 Public Law 106-113, Section 702; Medicare,             
  Medicaid, and SCHIP Benefits Improvement Act of 2000, Title VIII, Section            
  801, 802, and 803, Public Law 106-554, Public Law 108-74, Public Law 108-            
  127, Public Law 109-171 and Public Law 109-482 and Public Law 110-28.                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide funds to States to enable them to initiate and expand child health        
  assistance to uninsured, low-income children. Assistance should be provided          
  primarily by two methods: (1) obtain health insurance coverage that meets the        
  requirements in Section 2103 relating to the amount, duration, and scope of          
  benefits; or (2) expand eligibility for children under the State's Medicaid          
  program.                                                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  No State is eligible for payments for child health assistance for coverage           
  provided prior to October 1, 1997. Standards used to determine eligibility may       
  include those related to geographic areas to be served by the plan. Age, income      
  and resources, residency, disability status (as long as the standard does not        
  restrict eligibility), access to or coverage under other health coverage, and        
  duration of eligibility are factors. Standards may not discriminate on the basis of  
  diagnosis. Eligibility standards must not cover higher-income children without       
  covering lower-income children, and must not deny eligibility based on a child       
  having a preexisting medical condition. The State must ensure that only targeted     
  low-income children are furnished child health assistance under the plan.            
  Children found through screening to be eligible for Medicaid are to be enrolled      
  in Medicaid. The insurance provided under the State plan does not substitute for     
  coverage under group health plans. Coordination with other public and private        
  programs providing creditable coverage for low-income children should occur.         
  Child Health Assistance (other than Medicaid), must consist of any of the            
  following: Benchmark coverage; benchmark equivalent coverage (which can be           
  FEHBP-equivalent coverage); State employee coverage or coverage offered              
  through the HMO with the largest insured commercial non-Medicaid enrollment          
  in the State; existing comprehensive State-based coverage; or Secretary-             
  approved coverage. A State child health plan must include a description of the       
  amount (if any) of cost-sharing and must be in accordance with a public              
  schedule. Cost-sharing may be varied in a way that does not favor higher-income      
  children over lower-income children. No cost-sharing is permitted for well-baby      
  and well-child care, including age-appropriate immunizations. Cost-sharing for       
  children at 150 percent of poverty must be consistent with Medicaid; Cost-           
  sharing for children at 150 percent of poverty and above must be based on an         
  income-related sliding scale. The aggregate for all children in a family cannot      
  exceed 5 percent of the family's income. The State child health plan may not         
  impose pre-existing condition exclusions for covered benefits. States that           
  provide for benefits through a group health plan or group health insurance           
  coverage may permit pre-existing condition exclusions as allowed under the           
  applicable Section of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA)            
  and the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA). Funds           
  provided to a State under this Title may only be used to carry out the purposes of   
  this Title. Health insurance coverage provided may include coverage of abortion      
  only if necessary to save the life of the mother or if the pregnancy is the result of
  an act of rape or incest. States may spend up to 10 percent of their total SCHIP     
  expenditures (Federal and State) on non-benefit activities, including: outreach      
  conducted to identify and enroll eligible children in SCHIP; administration          
  costs; health services initiatives; and other child health assistance. These         
  expenditures are matched at the enhanced SCHIP matching rate and counted             
  against both the 10 percent limit and the allotment. Monetary amounts provided       
  by the Federal government or services assisted or subsidized to any significant      
  extent by the Federal government, may not be included in determining the             
  amount of nonfederal contributions required for State matching purposes.             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  All States and Territories may apply.                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Targeted low-income children will benefit. These children are defined (for the       
  purposes of Title XXI) as children who have been determined eligible by the          
  State for child health assistance under their State plan; are low-income children;   
  or are children whose family income exceeds the Medicaid applicable income           
  level but does not exceed 50 percentage points above the Medicaid applicable         


                                                                                  11-08
  income level; and are not found to be eligible for medical assistance under Title
  XIX or covered under a group health plan or under health insurance coverage.
  This term does not include a child that is a member of a family that is eligible
  for health benefits coverage under a State health benefits plan on the basis of a
  family member's employment with a public agency in the State.
Credentials/Documentation:
  States and Territories must submit and have approved by the Secretary of
  DHHS, a State Child Health Plan. Individuals must meet State requirements.
Preapplication Coordination:
  States are encouraged to work with DHHS in the development of their Title XXI
  plans. Central and regional office staff from the Centers for Medicare and
  Medicaid Services (CMS) and the Health Resources Services Administration
  (HRSA), as well as other DHHS components are available to furnish guidance
  and technical assistance to a State in preparing their plans. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Title XXI plans and amendments are submitted by the State Governor, or
  designee, to the CMS Center for Medicaid and State Operations; Families and
  Children Health Program Group (CMSO/FCHPG). The Title XXI plan should be
  a stand alone document that fully addresses each relevant Section of the
  statutory requirements.
Award Procedure:
  The CMS Administrator exercises delegated authority to approve Title XXI
  plans and amendments. Letters of approval will be signed by the CMS
  Administrator.
Deadlines:
  Under the Law, a State must have an approved State Plan for a fiscal year in
  order to receive an allotment that year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Section 2106 of the Law, specifies that a State plan is considered approved
  unless the Secretary notifies the State in writing, within 90 days after receipt of
  the plan, that the plan is disapproved (and the reasons for disapproval) or that
  specific additional information is needed. Informal clarification and discussion
  between the State and the DHHS review team is permitted and encouraged
  during the review period. This does not stop the "90-day clock." The 90-day
  review period may be stopped by formal written requests for additional
  information and clarification. The 90-day review period may be stopped as many
  times as necessary to obtain completed information necessary to disapprove or
  approve the plan. The 90-day period will resume when the finalized additional
  information is received by CMS.
Appeals:
  If a State wishes to appeal a disapproval, it may petition for a reconsideration of
  this decision within 60 days after the date of receipt of the disapproval letter, by
  submitting a written request for reconsideration to the project officer and the
  regional office. States also have the option to submit a new application following
  the disapproval, starting a new 90-day review clock.
Renewals:
  An approved State child health plan shall continue in effect unless the State
  amends that plan or the Secretary finds substantial noncompliance of the plan in
  accordance with the requirements of Title XXI.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Section 2105(b), Title XXI, provides for an "enhanced Federal Matching
  Assistance Percentage (FMAP)" for child health assistance provided under Title
  XXI that is equal to the current FMAP for the fiscal year in the Medicaid Title
  XIX program, increased by 30 percent of the difference between 100 and the
  current FMAP for that fiscal year. The enhanced FMAP may not exceed 85
  percent. The formula for determining the final allotment includes: determining
  the number of States with approved State Plans as of the end of the fiscal year.
  In order for a State to receive a final allotment for a fiscal year, CMS must
  approve the SCHIP State Plan for that State by the end of the fiscal year. Only
  States with approved State Plans by the end of the fiscal year will be included in
  the final allotment calculation. States' final allotments will be determined in
  accordance with the statutory formula that is based on two factors: (1) Number
  of children (those potentially eligible for SCHIP), and (2) the State cost factor.
  These factors will be multiplied to yield a final allotment product for each State.
  Once the final allotment product has been determined for all the States with
  approved SCHIP plans, the products for each State will be added to determine a
  national total. Each State's product will be divided by this national total to
  determine a State specific percentage of the national total available amount for
  allotment that each State would be eligible to receive. The State specific
  percentage is then multiplied by the national total amount available for
  allotment, resulting in the final allotment for each State.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Enrolled children receive medical services as necessary. Federal funds are
  obligated to the States by issuing Title XXI grant awards. To ensure that all of
  the appropriated funds are available to States, CMS will issue grant awards to all
  States with Title XXI State plans approved by the end of the fiscal year equaling
  the national amount available for allotment to the 50 States, the District of
  Columbia, and the Commonwealths and Territories for that fiscal year. Grant
  awards must be issued by the time the CMS/HHS accounting system closes with
                                                                                   1479
