  respect to that fiscal year.                                                         
Reports:                                                                               
  Section 2108 of the Law specifies that States must develop annual reports            
  assessing the operation of their State Plan for each fiscal year, including the      
  progress made in reducing the number of uncovered low-income children and            
  report to the Secretary by January 1, of the following year the results of the       
  assessment. By March 31, 2000, each State with a child health plan must submit       
  to the Secretary an evaluation that includes an assessment of the effectiveness of   
  the State Plan in increasing the number of children with creditable health           
  coverage, in increasing the availability of affordable quality individual and        
  family health insurance for children, and in coordinating recommendations for        
  improving the program under this Title. By December 31, 2001, the Secretary          
  must submit to Congress and make available to the public, a report based on the      
  evaluations submitted by the States recommendations and conclusions.                 
Audits:                                                                                
  A State child health plan under Title XXI must include an assurance that the         
  State will afford the Secretary access to any records or information relating to     
  the plan for the purposes of review or audit.                                        
Records:                                                                               
  A State child health plan must include an assurance that the State will collect the  
  data, maintain the records, and furnish the report to the Secretary at the times     
  and in standardized format (as the Secretary requires), in order to enable the       
  Secretary to monitor State program administration and compliance and to              
  evaluate and compare the effectiveness of State Plans under this Title.              
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0515-0-1-551.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $5,940,730,000; FY 08 est $6,640,000,000; and FY 09 est               
  $5,315,000,000.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  The range is from: $5,753,333 ($577,500 for the smallest territory) to               
  $790,789,213 for the States. In the third year following the State allotment fiscal  
  year, under a "redistribution process" CMS will determine the amounts of the         
  unused fiscal year allotments from States that have not expended all of their        
  allotment for that fiscal year and will redistribute the amounts to States that have 
  fully expended the amount of their allotments for that fiscal year.                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  None.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Regulations and guidance issued related to the Children's Health Insurance           
  Program may be accessed through the World Wide Web at:                               
  www.cms.hhs.gov/schip.                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Contact the Regional Administrator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid                
  Services. (See Appendix IV of the Catalog for addresses and telephone                
  numbers).                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Center for Medicaid and State Operations, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid          
  Services, 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244; Telephone: (410)             
  786-3870.                                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.cms.hhs.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  93.778, Medical Assistance Program.                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  None.                                                                                
                                                                                       
93.768 MEDICAID INFRASTRUCTURE GRANTS TO                                               
SUPPORT THE COMPETITIVE EMPLOYMENT OF                                                  
                                                                                       
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES                                                               
   (Ticket To Work Infrastructure Grants)                                              
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES, DEPARTMENT                               
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999, Section 203,             
  Public Law 106-170.                                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To support State efforts to enhance employment options for people with               
  disabilities by building Medicaid infrastructure. Funding may be used to develop     
  a Medicaid buy-in, increase availability of Personal Assistance Services, or for     
  State-to-State technical assistance. In addition, States may use funding to          
  develop a comprehensive approach to bridge Medicaid services with other key          
  supports and programs used by employed people with disabilities.                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      


1480                                                                             11-08

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  While the proposals submitted by the States may vary, States participating in
  this grant program will use the funds to remove the barriers to employment of
  persons with disabilities, by creating health systems change through the
  Medicaid program. The development or enhancement of certain core Medicaid
  components in each State would enable people with disabilities not only to work,
  but to sustain adequate health coverage if they find they need to relocate to
  another State for employment purposes. An adequate personal assistance
  services benefit and a Medicaid buy-in for employed people with disabilities are
  significant components of the Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement
  Act. The infrastructure grants program provides money to the States to develop
  these core elements. In addition, States may use funding to develop a
  comprehensive approach to bridge Medicaid services with other key supports
  and programs used by employed people with disabilities. Funds may not be used
  for the direct provision of services to people with disabilities except on a one-
  time, last resort, emergency basis for the purpose of sustaining the individual's
  competitive employment.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Either of the following may apply: (a) the single state medicaid agency; or (b)
  any other agency or instrumentality of a state(as determined under State law) in
  partnership, agreement and active participation with the single state medicaid
  agency, the State Legislature, or the office of the Governor.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  There are two groups of potentially eligible beneficiaries, as defined by the
  Ticket to Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act of 1999. The first group
  consists of persons with disabilities between the ages of 16 and 65 years old,
  employed, and who meet income, asset, and resource standards established by
  the State. The second group of potential beneficiaries consists of persons
  between the ages of 16 and 65 years old, employed, and who cease to be eligible
  for Medical Assistance because of medical improvements determined at the time
  of a regularly scheduled disability review, but who also continue to have a severe
  medically determinable impairment.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Federal funds must go to a designated State Medicaid Agency or its partner
  agencies or instrumentality's. Individuals must meet State requirements.
  Administrative cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No.
  A-87, "Cost Principles for State and Local Governments."
Preapplication Coordination:
  No preapplications are required. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application form SF-424 and related forms, as furnished by CMS,
  must be used for this program. Application forms are submitted to the
  Acquisition and Grants Group, CMS, C2-21-15 Central Building, 7500 Security
  Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244-1850. This program is subject to the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-102.
Award Procedure:
  Official notice of approved applications is made through the issuance of a grant
  award.
Deadlines:
  Established when program announcements are published in the Federal Register
  or transmitted to States.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range is from 100 to 150 days.
Appeals:
  There are no formal appeals procedures. If an application is disapproved, the
  reasons for disapproval will be fully stated.
Renewals:
  Extensions and continuations of projects are available if formally applied for and
  approved. If a grant application is recommended for approval for 2 or more
  years, the awardee must annually submit a formal request for continuation
  accompanied by a progress report that will be evaluated prior to a
  recommendation of continuation.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  No State or local matching funds are required for the infrastructure grants.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  CMS announced the first round of infrastructure grant awards in October 2000.
  This grant program is authorized for 11 years beginning in fiscal year 2001.
Reports:
  Progress and expenditure reports are required on all projects.
Audits:
  All fiscal transactions identifiable to Federal financial assistance are subject to
  audit by the DHHS audit agency.
Records:
  Proper accounting records, identifiable by project number and including all
  receipts and expenditures, must be maintained for 3 years. Subsequent to audit,
  they must be maintained until all questions are resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0516-0-1-551.
Obligations:
