Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Contact the appropriate CMS Regional Administrator. (See appendix IV for              
  Regional Offices).                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  CMS,Centers for Medicare and State Operations, Paul Youket, Health Insurance          
  Specialist, Mailstop S2-01-16, 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244-          
  1850. Telephone: (410) 786-0264. Email: paul.youket@cms.hhs.gov.                      
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  www.cms.hhs.gov/riskpool .                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Each application will be reviewed to ensure it meets the eligibility criteria (as     
  stated above). If eligible, the State will be awarded the lesser 50 percent of losses 
  incurred by its qualified risk pool for the fiscal year in question or its allotment  
  under the formula for the grants.                                                     
                                                                                        
93.781 SEED GRANTS TO STATES FOR QUALIFIED HIGH-                                        
                                                                                        
RISK POOLS                                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES, DEPARTMENT                                
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Trade Act of 2002, Public Law 107-210; Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, Public          
  Law 109-171.                                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To assist states in the creation and initial operation of a qualified high-risk       
  health insurance pool for individuals who cannot purchase individual coverage         
  because of pre-existing medical conditions.                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  States that operated qualified high-risk pools (as defined in section 2744(c)(2) of   
  the Public Health Service Act) prior to August 6, 2002, the date the Trade Act        
  was signed into law, do not qualify for the grant funding. All funds to be            
  awarded under this program must be used exclusively for the creation and initial      
  operation of a qualified high-risk pool as defined in section 2744(c)(2) of the       
  Public Health Service Act.                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Any State that did not have a qualified high-risk pool established as of August 6,    
  2002 is eligible to apply. The term "State" is defined in the legislation as any of   
  the 50 states and the District of Columbia. The definition of a "qualified high-      
  risk pool" is provided under section 2744(c)(2) of the Public Health Service Act.     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Any State that did not have a qualified high-risk pool established as of August 6,    
  2002 is eligible to apply. The term "State" is defined in the legislation as any of   
  the 50 states and the District of Columbia. The definition of a "qualified high-      
  risk pool" is provided under section 2744(c)(2) of the Public Health Service Act.     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Federal funds must go to a designated State Agency or its partner agencies.           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  A notice of intent to apply is encouraged but not required. A notice of intent        
  may be submitted to: CMS, Mailstop S3-16-16, 7500 Security Blvd, Baltimore,           
  MD 21244-1850. The letter of intent should indicate that the state intends to         
  apply for a seed grant to create a "qualified" high-risk pool and also provide an     
  estimate of the costs of creating the pool. This program is excluded from             
  coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                            
                                                                                        
Application Procedure:

                                                                                        
  In addition to the standard forms, some additional information regarding the

                                                                                        
  authority for establishing the pool, plans for administering the pool, a contact

                                                                                        
  person, and actions planned and already taken is also required. Applicants are

                                                                                        
  required to submit an original and two copies of the application to the

                                                                                        
  Acquisition and Grants Group, CMS, Mailstop C2-21-15 (Nicole Nicholson),

                                                                                        
  7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244-1850.

  www.cms.hhs.gov/researchers/priorities/grants.asp. Facsimile (fax)

  transmissions will not be accepted. This program is subject to the provisions of      
  OMB Circular No. A-102.                                                               
Award Procedure:

  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) will make a decision             
  for each application received. Each applicant will receive written notification of    
  CMS's decision. Applicants approved for a grant award must submit a letter of         
  acceptance to CMS within 30 days of the date of the award, agreeing to the            
  terms and conditions of the award letter.                                             
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Applications will be reviewed and funded on an ongoing basis as received.             
  However, to be considered please contact program office for application               
  deadline.                                                                             


1490                                                                              11-08

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  There are formal appeals procedures. If an application is disapproved, the
  reasons for disapproval will be fully stated.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There is no requirement for States to match grants awarded under this program.
  Funding will be distributed to approved grant awardees in two phases. Funding
  will be released in Phase I once the State demonstrates that legal authority has
  been created to develop a qualified high-risk pool and that a governing authority
  responsible for overseeing the pool has been created or designated. Funding will
  be released in Phase II once the State has demonstrated that it has made the
  commitment to have the necessary staff available for the successful operation of
  the pool and has established the required administrative mechanism to assure the
  provision of health coverage.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  Grant awardees must submit a quarterly report to CMS documenting the
  expenditure of the grant funds and the progress of the creation of the high-risk
  pool. These reports will continue to be submitted until all grant funds are spent.
  Refer to 45 CFR Part 92.
Audits:
  All fiscal transactions identifiable to Federal financial assistance are subject to
  audit by DHHS audit agency.
Records:
  Proper accounting records, identifiable by project number and including all
  receipts and expenditures, must be maintained for 3 years. Subsequent to audit,
  they must be maintained until all questions are resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0516-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,450,000; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The maximum amount of a grant award is $1,000,000 as set in statute.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The program purpose is to assist states in the creation and initial operation of a
  qualified high-risk health insurance pool for individuals who cannot purchase
  individual coverage because of pre-existing medical conditions.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Grants Administration policies (45 CFR 74 and 92) application kits may be
  obtained from the Acquisition and Grants Group, CMS, Mailstop C2-21-15,
  7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244-1850. The grant application
  kits may also be downloaded from the following Web site:
  www.cms.hhs.gov/researchers/priorities/grants.asp.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the appropriate CMS Regional Administrator. (See Appendix IV for
  Regional Offices.)
Headquarters Office:
  CMS, Centers for Medicaid and State Operations, Mailstop S2-01-16 (Paul
  Youket), 7500 Security Blvd, Baltimore, MD 21244-1850. Telephone: (410)
  786-7528. E-mail: paul.youket@cms.hhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cms.hhs.gov/riskpool
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.780, Grants to States for Operation of Qualified High-Risk Pools.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  A State must first meet the eligibility criteria (as stated above). If eligible, the
  application will be reviewed evaluating the State's mechanism that can
  reasonably be expected to assure administrative and legal capacity to provide
  health coverage to all qualified applicants and that funding sources that can
  reasonably be expected to ensure that the pool will be able to keep funding
  losses and stay in operation after grants funds have been expended.
93.783 MEDICARE TRANSITIONAL DRUG ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM FOR STATES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Authorized under the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and
  Modernization Act of 2003, Public Law 108-73, Section 1860D-31 of the Social
  Security Act (the Act).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide Federal funding for transitional assistance to certain low-income
