  Medicare beneficiaries, for the purchase of prescription drugs as referenced in     
  Section 1860D-31(b)(2) of the Act.                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Credits will be administered through private discount card sponsors in              
  accordance with the requirements of 42 CFR 403.806, 403.808, and 403.816 for        
  the transitional assistance benefit.                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  A non-governmental, single legal entity doing business in the United States;        
  having three years of private sector experience in the United States in pharmacy    
  benefit management; and at the time of application for Medicare endorsement, it     
  or a subcontractor, operates a pharmacy benefit program, a prescription drug        
  discount card program, a low-income drug assistance program, or a similar           
  program that serves at least one million covered lives and meets the                
  requirements in 42 CFR 403.804 and 42 CFR 403.806.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Individuals who are Medicare beneficiaries, and whose income is not more than       
  135 percent of the poverty line. To qualify, beneficiaries must not receive

                                                                                      
  outpatient drug coverage from other sources, including Medicaid, TRICARE,

  group health insurance or Federal Employee Health Benefit Plans (FEHBP),            
  except if the drug coverage is through a Part C Medicare+Choice plan or a           
  Medigap plan. Individuals must have been enrolled in the program by                 
  December 31, 2005.                                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Potential sponsors apply to CMS to become an approved drug discount card            
  sponsor, to administer transitional assistance funds. Beneficiaries complete an     
  enrollment form, which includes eligibility information, and submit it to an        
  approved sponsor. The sponsor forwards the enrollment and eligibility               
  information to CMS, which verifies eligibility for the card and for transitional    
  assistance.                                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Transitional assistance funds are drawn down by sponsors through the CMS            
  payments management system on behalf of their transitional assistance enrollees,    
  as the $600 credit is used by beneficiaries to pay for covered discount card        
  drugs.                                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                            
  No further funds are available after the date on which the beneficiary enrolls in   
  the new Medicare Part D drug benefit (first available on January 1, 2006), and in   
  any case not beyond May 15, 2006 (for the beneficiary who does not enroll in        
  Part D by the end of its initial enrollment period).                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  19 months.                                                                          
Appeals:                                                                              
  Sponsors whose applications to become an approved discount card sponsor are         
  rejected have the right to a reconsideration process. Beneficiaries who are found   
  by CMS to be ineligible for transitional assistance have the option of filing for   
  reconsideration in accordance with 42 CFR 403.810(g).                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no matching requirements.                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Project Period: May 3, 2004 through May 15, 2006.

                                                                                      
Reports:

                                                                                      
  Periodic reports are due to CMS is accordance with the timeframes established

                                                                                      
  by CMS.

                                                                                      
Audits:

                                                                                      
  Payment transactions may be audited by the Secretary or his agent.

                                                                                      
Records:

  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other         
  records pertinent to the project shall be retained for at least three years or until
  resolution of any audit questions.                                                  
                                                                                      
Account Identification:

  75-8307-0-7-571.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Benefit Outlays)FY 07 $9,815,000; FY 08 est $0; FY 09 est $0. (Last program        
  benefit adjustments were made in FY 07; program is shut down; no further            
  benefits).                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Up to $600 in 2004 and 2005 per transitional-assistance eligible Medicare           
  beneficiary electing to participate in the program.                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2004 credits are to be made available to each transitional-          
  assistance eligible Medicare beneficiary electing to participate in the program.    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Regulations governing this program were authorized under Section 1860D-31 of        


                                                                                 11-08
  the Social Security Act, as enacted under Public Law 108-73, and were
  published on December 15, 2003.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Cynthia Moreno, Center for Beneficiary Choices, Health Plan
  Benefits Group, 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244; Telephone:
  (410) 786-1164.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cms.hhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
93.784 FEDERAL REIMBURSEMENT OF EMERGENCY
HEALTH SERVICES FURNISHED TO UNDOCUMENTED
ALIENS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES, CENTERS FOR
  MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003,
  Public Law 108-73, Section 1011; Medicare Modernization Act (MMA).
OBJECTIVES:
  To reimburse eligible providers for their otherwise un-reimbursed costs
  associated with furnishing emergency health services to undocumented and
  certain other aliens.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Sections 1866(a)(1)(I), 1866 (a)(1)(N), and 1867 of the Social Security Act (the
  Act)impose specific obligations on Medicare-participating hospitals that offer
  emergency services. These obligations concern individuals who come to a
  hospital emergency department and request examination or treatment for
  medical conditions, and apply to all of these individuals, regardless of whether
  or not they are beneficiaries of any program under the Act. Section 1867 of the
  Act sets forth requirements for medical screening examinations of medical
  conditions, as well as necessary stabilizing treatment or appropriate transfer. In
  addition, section 1867(h) of the Act specifically prohibits a delay in providing
  required screening or stabilization services in order to inquire about the
  individual's payment method or insurance status.
Applicant Eligibility:
  From the allotments made for a State, the Secretary of Health and Human
  Services shall pay an amount (subject to the total amount available from such
  allotments) directly to eligible providers located in the State where emergency
  services were incurred to the extent that the eligible provider was not otherwise
  reimbursed. An eligible provider defined under the statute is a hospital,
  physician, or provider of ambulance services(including an Indian Health Service
  (IHS) facility whether operated by the IHS or by an Indian tribal or tribal
  organization).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The amounts of money set aside for each State will be paid directly to hospitals,
  certain physicians, and ambulance providers for the costs of providing
  emergency health care required under EMTALA and related hospital inpatient,
  outpatient, and ambulance services (including those operated by the Indian
  Health Service and Indian tribes and Tribal organizations) furnished to
  undocumented aliens, aliens paroled into the United States at a United States
  port of entry for the purposes of receiving such services, and Mexican citizens
  permitted temporary entry to the United States with a laser visa.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Final policy guidance was released on May 9, 2005 regarding the
  implementation of section 1011 of the MMA. This notice establishes the general
  framework and procedural rules for submitting an enrollment application and
  payment requests, establishes general statements of policy, and provides CMS'
  interpretation of section 1011. It is posted in the "downloads" section of the
  following web address:
  http://www.cms.hhs.gov/UndocAliens/02_policy.asp#TopOfPage.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  On September 1, 2004, the Secretary established a provider enrollment
  application.
Award Procedure:
  Official notice of approved claims for emergency health care services will be
  transmitted to eligible providers pursuant to procedures established prior to
  September 1, 2004 and published in the Federal Register.
                                                                                  1491
