93.786 STATE PHARMACEUTICAL ASSISTANCE                                                 
                                                                                       
PROGRAMS

                                                                                       
   (SPAP(s))                                                                           
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES, DEPARTMENT                               
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES ADMINISTRATION                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003,               
  Section 1860D-23(d) of the Social Security Act as established by Public Law          
  108-173.                                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide Federal funding for grants to States with State Pharmaceutical            
  Assistance Programs (SPAPs) for the purpose of educating SPAP participants           
  about Medicare Part D coverage. These funds may also be used to provide              
  technical assistance, phone support, and counseling in order to help SPAP            
  participants eligible for the Medicare Part D benefit select and enroll in Part D    
  plans.

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  Grants will be awarded to States in accordance with the requirements of 1860D-       
  23 of the Act and 45 CFR Part 92 and in accordance with their application as         
  approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS).                    
Applicant Eligibility:

  States with approved applications for transitional grants for their State            
  Pharmaceutical Assistance Programs, under Section 1860D-23 (d) of the Social         
  Security Act. Excludes Commonwealths and Territories.                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  States with approved applications for transitional grants for their State            
  Pharmaceutical Assistance Programs, under Section 1860D-23 (d) of the Social         
  Security Act. Excludes Commonwealths and Territories.                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Federal funds must go to a designated State Agency that will meet State              
  requirements.                                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Please contact program office for application deadline date. States with SPAPs       
  that qualify for the transitional grant will be notified of application approval and 
  the amount of approval no later a month following the application deadline.          
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Following approval of the grant application by CMS, an award will be issued to       
  the State in the amount as determined by the number of Medicare beneficiaries        
  enrolled in the program as of the application deadline.                              
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Please contact the program office for application deadline.                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Three months.                                                                        
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no matching requirements. The amount for each State is              
  determined based on the number of Medicare beneficiaries enrolled in the             
  program by the deadline date.                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Project Period: 10/1/04 through 9/30/06. CMS will issue grant awards to the          
  approved States annually at the beginning of FY 05 and FY 06.                        
Reports:                                                                               
  Final financial reports are due to CMS in accordance with the timeframes

                                                                                       
  established by CMS after the end of the project period.                              
Audits:                                                                                
  Payment transactions may be audited by the Secretary or his/her agent.

                                                                                       
Records:

                                                                                       
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other

                                                                                       
  records pertinent to the project shall be retained for at least 3 years or until

                                                                                       
  resolution of any audit questions. Property records must be retained in

                                                                                       
  accordance with CMS Grants Policy Statement requirements.

                                                                                       
Account Identification:

                                                                                       
  75-0516-0-1-551.

                                                                                       
Obligations:

                                                                                       
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  None.                                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  This program was developed under the Medicare Modernization Act and                  
  initiated by Public Law 108-173. Authority to provide funding was for 2 years        
  (FY 2005 and FY 2006).                                                               


                                                                                  11-08
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations governing this program were authorized under Section 1860D-23 of
  the Social Security Act, as enacted under Public Law 108-173, were published
  on December 15, 2003.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Deborah Abshire, Center for Medicaid and State Operations, Division of
  Financial Management, 7500 Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21224.
  Telephone: (410) 786-9291. E-mail: dabshire@cms.hhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cms.hhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
93.789 ALTERNATIVES TO PSYCHIATRIC RESIDENTIAL
TREATMENT FACILITIES FOR CHILDREN
  (Demonstration Projects Regarding Home and Community-Based
  Alternatives to Psychiatric Residential Treatment Facilities for
  Children)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 6063, Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, Public Law 109-171.
OBJECTIVES:
  Over the last decade, Psychiatric Residential Treatment Facilities (PRTFs) have
  become the primary provider for youth with serious emotional disturbances
  requiring an institutional level of care. However, since they are not recognized
  as hospitals, nursing facilities or intermediate care facilities for the mentally
  retarded, many States have been unable to use the 1915(c) waiver authority to
  provide home and community-based alternatives to care, which would keep the
  youth in their homes and with their families. Section 6063 of the Deficit
  Reduction Act of 2005 addresses this issue by providing up to $217 million to
  up to 10 States to develop demonstration programs that provide home and
  community-based services to youth as alternatives to PRTFs. CMS anticipates
  awarding each successful applicant between $21.7 and $50 million. The PRTF
  Demonstration is authorized for up to 5 years. Payments may not be made to
  States after fiscal year 2011. CMS will review and approve each State's
  Implementation Plan prior to allowing States to access funds for Federal
  reimbursement of services under this grant. Section 6063 also provides $1
  million for a National Demonstration Evaluation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Budget Neutrality: In conducting these demonstration projects, The Secretary of
  Health and Human Services shall ensure that the aggregate payments made by
  the Secretary under title XIX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1396 et seq.)
  do not exceed the amount which the Secretary estimates would have been paid
  under the title, if the demonstration projects under Section 6063 had not been
  implemented. Any funding allocated for the Federal match for home and
  community-based services provided under the demonstration for the first year of
  this grant that remain unspent will be carried over to the next year of the Grant.
  Indirect Costs: The provisions of the OMB Circular A-87 govern reimbursement
  of indirect costs under this solicitation. A copy of OMB Circular A-87 is
  available online at: http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a087/a087.html.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any single State Medicaid Agency, State Mental Health Agency, or
  instrumentality of the State may apply for this Demonstration Grant. Only one
  application can be submitted for a given State. By "State" we refer to the
  definition provided under 45 CFR 74.2 as "any of the several States of the
  United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any
  territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a
  State exclusive of local governments." By "territory or possession" we mean
  Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the
  Northern Mariana Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The level of care for Medicaid eligible individuals for this demonstration at a
  minimum must be under the age of 21 and require the need for a PRTF as
  defined in the State's Medicaid State Plan. For the purposes of this
  demonstration, youth are defined as "any child, adolescent or young adult under
  the age of 21". States shall ensure that each participant under the demonstration
  meets this level of care criterion to participate in the demonstration. Further,
  States may elect to add additional criteria to carve out or target a specific sub-
                                                                                  1493
