  population to receive home and community-based services under this                 
  demonstration. As a part of the application process, States shall submit a copy of 
  the level of care assessment used to assess eligibility for participation in this  
  demonstration. PRTFs are defined as any non-hospital facility with a provider      
  agreement with a State Medicaid Agency to provide the inpatient services           
  benefit to Medicaid- eligible individuals under the age of 21 (CFR 42 441.150 -    
  441.182). The facility must be accredited by the Joint Commission on               
  Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations (JCAHO) or any other accrediting         
  organization with comparable standards recognized by the State. Additionally       
  PRTFs must comply with Conditions of Participation on the use of restraint and     
  seclusion (CFR 483.350 - 483.376).                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Each application for this Demonstration Grant must include a letter of             
  endorsement from the Director of the Mental Health Authority and the State         
  Medicaid Director, if the applicant is not the single State Medicaid Agency/State  
  Agency.                                                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Applicants are encouraged to submit a non-binding Notice of Intent to Apply.       
  Notices of Intent to Apply are not required and their submission or failure to     
  submit a notice has no bearing on the scoring of proposals received. But receipt   
  of such notices enables CMS to better plan for the application review process.     
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants must submit their applications electronically through                   
  http://www.grants.gov. Please note when submitting your application                
  electronically, you are required, additionally, to mail a signed SF 424 to Nicole  
  Nicholson, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, Office of Operations          
  Management, Acquisition and Grants Group, C2-21-15 Central Building, 7500          
  Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244-1850. The mailed SF 424 form may           
  be received at the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services within 2 business      
  days of the application closing date.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  How the Merit of Applications Will Be Determined: CMS will employ a                
  multiphase review process to determine the applications that will be reviewed      
  and the merit of the applications that are reviewed. The multiphase review         
  process includes the following: "Applications will be screened by Federal staff to 
  determine eligibility for further review using the criteria detailed in the        
  "Eligibility Information" section of the solicitation. Applications that are       
  received late or fail to meet the eligibility requirements as detailed in the      
  "Applicant Eligibility" section of this solicitation will not be reviewed."        
  Applications will be objectively reviewed by a panel of experts, the exact         
  number and composition of which will be determined by CMS at its discretion,       
  but may include private sector subject matter experts, beneficiaries of Medicaid   
  supports, and Federal and Applicant policy staff. The review panels will utilize   
  the objective criteria described in the "Application Review Criteria Information"  
  section of the solicitation to establish an overall numeric score for each         
  application. The results of the objective review of applications will be used to   
  advise the approving CMS official. Additionally, CMS staff will make final         
  recommendations to the approving official after ranking applications using the     
  scores and comments from the review panel and weighing other factors as            
  described below. Factors Other than Merit that May be Used in Selecting            
  Applications for Award: CMS may assure reasonable balance among the grants         
  to be awarded in terms of key factors such as geographic distribution and broad    
  target group representation. CMS may redistribute grant funds (as detailed in the  
  "Award Information" section of the solicitation) based upon the number and         
  quality of applications received. (e.g., to adjust the minimum or maximum          
  awards permitted or adjust the aggregate amount of Federal funds allotted to a     
  particular category of grants).                                                    
                                                                                     
Deadlines:

  Please visit http://www.grants.gov for application deadline. For information on    
  how to get started with Grants.gov, please visit                                   
  http://www.grants.gov/applicants/get_registered.jsp. We strongly recommend         
  that you do not wait until the application deadline date to begin the application  
  process through Grants.gov. We recommend you visit Grants.gov at least 30          
  days prior to filing your application to fully understand the process and          
  requirements. We encourage applicants to submit well before the closing date.      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Successful applicants will receive a Financial Assistance Award (FAA) signed       
  and dated by the CMS Grants Management Officer. The FAA is the document            
  authorizing the grant award and will be sent through the U.S. Postal Service to    
  the applicant organization as listed on its SF 424. Any communication between      
  CMS and applicants prior to issuance of the FAA is not an authorization to         
  begin performance of a project.                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  Appeals are governed by Title 45--Public Welfare. SUBTITLE A--                     
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES PART 16--                                  
  PROCEDURES OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GRANT APPEALS BOARD.                                
Renewals:                                                                            
  Any funding allocated for the Federal match for home and community-based           
  services provided under the demonstration for the first year of this grant that    


1494                                                                           11-08

  remain unspent will be carried over to the next year of the Grant. Funding for
  years 2008 - 2011 will be awarded on a Continuation Grant to each State based
  on their approved Financial Neutrality Formula and updated Implementation
  Plan. Any funding allocated for the Federal match for home and community-
  based services provided under the demonstration that remains unspent will be
  carried over to the next year of the Grant.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  A State receiving an award under this solicitation will receive reimbursement for
  home and community-based services provided under the demonstration on a
  quarterly basis at a rate equal to the State's Federal Medical Assistance
  Percentage (FMAP). Administrative costs will be reimbursed according to the
  requirements of CFR 42, Section 433.15.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The demonstration period is five years. Budget Period: The budget period is
  from FY 2007 through FY 2011.
Reports:
  Financial Status Report, form (SF-269), will be required to be submitted semi-
  annually. This financial status report will account for all uses of grant monies
  during each reporting period. During the pre-implementation period, CMS will
  work with the grantees to determine if additional reporting requirements
  imposed. At the end of each demonstration grant year, States will be required to
  produce documentation that they have not exceeded the determined budget
  ceiling and meet all CMS financial requirements. The format of this financial
  report will be determined during the IP phase of the Demonstration Semi-
  Annual Progress Reports: Web-based reports in a pre-determined format will be
  required to be submitted semi-annually. The submission of the finalized IP will
  be due no later than 9 months after receipt of the Notice of Financial Assistance
  Award. The IP will be considered the First report due under this demonstration.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997).
Records:
  Required to follow 45 CFR 74.53.
Account Identification:
  75-0516-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $21,325,721; FY 08 $37,168,000; and FY 09 est $49,168,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Floor: $21 million; Ceiling $21 million for FY 07; $37 million for FY 08.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  This is a new grant demonstration with first year awards made in FY 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  (CFR 42, 441.150 - 441.182) PRTFs are defined as any non-hospital facility
  with a provider agreement with a State Medicaid Agency to provide the inpatient
  services benefit to Medicaid-eligible individuals under the age of 21. The facility
  must be accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare
  Organizations (JCAHO) or any other accrediting organization with comparable
  standards recognized by the State. (CFR 483.350 - 483.376) Conditions of
  Participation on the use of restraint and seclusion). Under this demonstration
  States are granted the same waiver provisions provided to States who operate a
  section 1915 (c) waiver program. The three waiver provisions of Title XIX of the
  Social Security Act (the Act) are as follows: 1902 (a)(10)(B) (Comparability)
  The waiver of this provision of the Act permits a State to limit the provision of
  waiver services to Medicaid beneficiaries who require the level of care in an
  institutional setting, are in the target group(s) specified in the waiver, and offer
  services to waiver participants that are not provided to other Medicaid
  beneficiaries. 1902(a) (1) (State- wideness). The Secretary may grant a waiver of
  this provision of the Act in order to permit a State to limit the operation of a
  waiver to specified geographic areas of the State; and 1902(a) (10) (C) (i) (III)
  (Income and Resources for the Medically Needy). A State may request a waiver
  of this provision in order to apply institutional income and resources rules for
  the medically needy to persons in the community who otherwise qualify for
  waiver services. Additionally, States program design under this demonstration
  shall comply with existing Medicaid statutory and regulatory requirements
  governing the administration and operation of a section 1915 (c) waiver
  program, especially the six statutory assurances that are located in 42 CFR
  441.302. HCBS waiver application for more detailed guidance on this subject
  found at: http://www.cms.hhs.gov/HCBS/02_QualityToolkit.asp#TopOfPage.
  By "State" we refer to the definition provided under 45 CFR 74.2 as "any of the
  several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth
  of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or
  instrumentality of a State exclusive of local governments. By "territory or
  possession" we mean Guam, the U. S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. CMS will reimburse States for
  home and community-based services provided under the demonstration on a
  quarterly basis at a rate equal to the State's Federal Medical Assistance
  Percentage (FMAP). (See Attachment 6 in the solicitation materials, for a list of
  home and community-based service categories). Administrative costs will be
  reimbursed according to the requirements of CFR 42, 433.15. A complete
  electronic application package, including all required forms, for this
