  demonstration grant is available at https://apply.grants.gov/forms_apps_idx.html 
  Standard application forms and related instructions are available online at      
  http://gsa.gov/forms. Standard forms are available as detailed in, Section V.A,  
  Address to Request Application Package. The following standard forms must be     
  completed with an original signature and enclosed as part of the proposal: SF    
  424: Official Application for Federal Assistance (see Note below*) SF 424A:      
  Budget Information SF 424B: Assurances Non-Construction Programs SF LLL:         
  Disclosure of Lobbying Activities PHS-5161-1 (7/00) Additional Certifications -  
  can be found at the following website:                                           
  http://apply.grants.gov/forms/sample/SSA_additionalassurances_VI.0.pdf Usual     
  Requirements that must be adhered to by law and regulation: A. Specific          
  administrative and policy requirements of grantees as outlined in 45 CFR 74 and  
  45 CFR 92, apply to this grant opportunity.B. All grantees receiving awards      
  under                                                                            
  thesegrantprogramsmustmeettherequirements of: Title VI of the Civil Rights Act   
  of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, The Age Discrimination   
  Act of 1975, Hill-Burton Community Service nondiscrimination provisions, and     
  Title II Subtitle A of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.              
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  None.                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Program Contact: Ronald Hendler, Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services,       
  Center for Medicaid and State Operations, 7500 Security Boulevard, Mail Stop     
  S2-14- 26, Baltimore, MD 21244. Telephone: (410) 786-2267. E-mail address:       
  ronald.hendler1@cms.hhs.gov .                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.cms.hhs.gov .                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  None.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  None.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  The Application submission will include a systems assessment, demonstration      
  design and Financial Neutrality Form, following the application instructions in  
  Section IV of the solicitation. Through a competitive process, 10 applications   
  will receive awards. The 10 States receiving awards will be required to submit   
  an Implementation Plan. States receiving an award under this solicitation will   
  have nine months to complete the Implementation Plan for Centers for Medicare    
  & Medicaid Services (CMS) review and approval. CMS will employ a                 
  multiphase review process to determine the applications that will be reviewed    
  and the merit of the applications that are reviewed. The multiphase review       
  process includes the following: Applications will be screened by Federal staff to
  determine eligibility for further review using the criteria detailed in the      
  Eligibility Information section of this solicitation. Applications that that are 
  received late or fail to meet the eligibility requirements as detailed in the    
  Applicant Eligibility section of this solicitation will not be reviewed.         
  Applications will be objectively reviewed by a panel of experts, the exact       
  number and composition of which will be determined by CMS at its discretion,     
  but may include private sector subject matter experts, beneficiaries of Medicaid 
  supports, and Federal and Applicant policy staff. The review panels will utilize 
  the objective criteria described in the Application Review Criteria Information  
  section of this solicitation to establish an overall numeric score for each      
  application. The results of the objective review of applications will be used to 
  advise the approving CMS official. Additionally, CMS staff will make final       
  recommendations to the approving official after ranking applications using the   
  scores and comments from the review panel and weighing other factors as          
  described below. Factors Other than Merit that May be Used in Selecting          
  Applications for Award: CMS may assure reasonable balance among the grants       
  to be awarded in terms of key factors such as geographic distribution and broad  
  target group representation. CMS may redistribute grant funds (as detailed in the
  Award Information section of this solicitation) based upon the number and        
  quality of applications received. (e.g., to adjust the minimum or maximum        
  awards permitted or adjust the aggregate amount of Federal funds allotted to a   
  particular category of grants).                                                  
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
93.790 ALTERNATE NON-EMERGENCY SERVICE                                             
PROVIDERS OR NETWORKS                                                              
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES, DEPARTMENT                           
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Section 6043, Emergency Room Co-payments for Non-Emergency Care, Deficit         
  Reduction Act of 2005, Public Law 109-171, enacted February 8, 2006.             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To provide Federal payments to States for the establishment of alternate non-    
  emergency service providers, or networks of such providers to provide non-       
  emergency care.                                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants.                                                                  
                                                                              11-08
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds from this program may be used for the establishment of alternate non-
  emergency service providers, or networks of such providers to provide non-
  emergency care. States may not use funds as the State's share of the Medicaid
  program costs or as supplemental Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH)
  payments.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Grant applicants are limited to the 51 State Medicaid Agencies and the Medicaid
  Agencies in the Federal Territories.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Grant applicants are limited to the 51 State Medicaid Agencies and the Medicaid
  Agencies in the Federal Territories.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Federal funds will be directed to the State Medicaid Agency with the grant
  award amount identified in the award approval letter. Permissible administrative
  costs will be determined in accordance with the Office of Management and
  Budget (OMB) circular No. 87 "Cost Principals for States and Local
  Governments".
Preapplication Coordination:
  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) will issue guidance to
  States via a State Medicaid Director (SMD) letter regarding the application
  requirements. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A State may submit only one application. Applications must be submitted
  electronically to CMS via E-mail: Matransgrant@cms.hhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  CMS will make a decision for each application received. Each applicant will
  receive written notification of CMS' decision. Applicants approved for a grant
  award must submit a letter of acceptance to CMS within 30 days of the date of
  the award, agreeing to the terms and conditions of the award letter.
Deadlines:
  Please contact CMS for application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  60 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  In providing for payments to States under subsection 1903(y) of the Act, the
  Secretary shall provide preference to States that establish, or provide for,
  alternate non-emergency services providers or networks of providers that: (1)
  serve rural or underserved areas where Medicaid beneficiaries may not have
  regular access to providers of primary care services; or (2) providers are in
  partnership with local community hospitals and/or (3) States who submit a State
  plan amendment for section 1916 A(e) for hospitals to impose cost sharing for
  non-emergency services provided in a hospital emergency department. No
  matching funds are required for this program.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project Period: Under this legislation, a total of $50,000,000 over 4 years (FY
  2006-2009) has been made available for the establishment of alternate non-
  emergency service providers or networks of such providers to provide non-
  emergency care. CMS will have two separate competitive grant solicitations as
  follows: 1st FFY 2006 and 2007; 2nd FFY 2008 and 2009. Budget Period: FY
  2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009.
Reports:
  States will be required to submit quarterly reports to CMS related to program
  status and financial reports as identified in the terms and conditions post award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997).
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents and progress/annual reports and all
  other records pertinent to this program shall be retained three years.
Account Identification:
  75-0516-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $12,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Grant funds will be allocated based on the number of States that apply and meet
  the grant criteria.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None. New Program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  CMS will provide application guidance in the form of a State Medicaid Director
  letter. The letter may be located at
  www.cms.hhs.gov/GrantsAlternaNonEmergServ/.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Lyn Killman, Health Insurance Specialist, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid
                                                                                 1495
