  Services, 7500 Security Boulevard, Mail Stop S2-01-16, Baltimore, MD 21244.         
  Telephone: (410) 786-5951 E-mail: Lyn.Killman@cms.hhs.gov and Wanda                 
  Pigatt-Canty, Health Insurance Specialist, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid        
  Services, 7500 Security Boulevard, Mail Stop S2-01-16, Baltimore, MD 21244.         
   Telephone: (410) 786-6177. E-mail: wanda.pigatt-canty@cms.hhs.gov.                 
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.cms.hhs.gov/GrantsAlternaNonEmergServ/ .                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Each application will be reviewed by a team of CMS staff. The applicant             
  selection criteria will consist of the following but will not be limited to only    
  these factors: the project abstract, project narrative and budget.                  
                                                                                      
93.791 MONEY FOLLOWS THE PERSON REBALANCING                                           
                                                                                      
DEMONSTRATION

                                                                                      
   (Money Follows the Person Demonstration)                                           
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES, DEPARTMENT                              
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Section 6071, Public Law Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, Public Law 109-171.         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  For more than a decade, States have been asking for the tools to modernize their    
  Medicaid programs. With the enactment of the Deficit Reduction Act (DRA) of         
  2005, States now have new options to rebalance their long-term support              
  programs to allow their Medicaid programs to be more sustainable while helping      
  individuals achieve independence. The Money Follows the Person (MFP)                
  Rebalancing Demonstration (MFP Demo), created by section 6071 of the Deficit        
  Reduction Act of 2005 (P.L. 109-171), supports State efforts to "rebalance" their   
  long-term support systems by offering $1.75 billion over 5 years in competitive     
  grants to States. Specifically, the demonstration will support State efforts        
  to:"Rebalance their long-term support system so that individuals have a choice      
  of where they live and receive services." Transition individuals from institutions  
  who want to live in the community. Promote a strategic approach to implement a      
  system that provides person centered services and a quality management strategy     
  that ensures the provision of, and improvement of such services in both home        
  and community-based settings and institutions. The demonstration provides for       
  enhanced federal medical assistance percentage (FMAP) for 12 months for             
  qualified home and community-based services for each person transitioned from       
  an institution to the community during the demonstration period. Eligibility for    
  transition is dependent upon residence in a qualified institution. The State may    
  establish the minimum timeframe for residence between 6 months and two years        
  as required by Section 6071(b)(2)(A) of the DRA. The State must continue to         
  provide community-based services after the 12 month period for as long as the       
  person needs community services and is Medicaid eligible. Demonstration             
  grants will be awarded to States from January 1, 2007 through September 30,         
  2011. CMS will accept one proposal from each State interested in participating      
  in the demonstration program. The Single State Medicaid Agency must be the          
  lead applicant. States must propose a demonstration period of no less than two      
  consecutive fiscal years but no greater than five years. The State will indicate in 
  its application the targeted group(s) and number of individuals it intends to       
  transition. In making awards, CMS will give preference to States if they include    
  multiple target groups including older individuals, and if they propose to deliver  
  self-directed services. The number of demonstration projects approved by CMS        
  depends largely on the scope (i.e., proposed enrollment and breadth of services)    
  and quality of the proposed projects. Under the demonstration project, the State    
  must propose a system of Medicaid home and community-based care that will be        
  sustained after the demonstration period and is deemed qualified by the             
  Secretary. Specifically, the program must be conducted in conjunction with a        
  "qualified HCBS program" which is a program that is in operation (or approved)      
  in the State for such individuals in a manner that assures continuity of Medicaid   
  coverage of services in the qualified HCBS program for eligible individuals.        
  States may also propose to enhance the services they will provide during the        
  demonstration period to achieve greater success with transition. States will be     
  required to participate in a national qualitative and quantitative evaluation       
  conducted by CMS. Data collected on a national level will help evaluate the         
  core objectives of the statute that are listed below.                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Indirect Costs: The provisions of the OMB Circular A-87 govern reimbursement        
  of indirect costs under this solicitation. A copy of OMB Circular A-87 is           
  available online at: http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/a087/a087.html.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Applicants must be any single State Medicaid Agency, State Mental Heath             


1496                                                                            11-08

  Agency, or instrumentality of the State may apply for this Demonstration Grant.
  Only one application can be submitted for a given State. By "State" we refer to
  the definition provided under 45 CFR 74.2 as "any of the several States of the
  United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any
  territory or possession of the United States, or any agency or instrumentality of a
  State exclusive of local governments." By "territory or possession" we mean
  Guam, the U. S. Virgin Islands, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the
  Northern Mariana Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  As defined in Section 6071(b)(2) of the DRA, the term "eligible individual"
  means, with respect to an MFP demonstration project of a State, an individual in
  the State who, immediately before beginning participation in the MFP
  demonstration project: (i) resides (and has resided, for a period of not less than 6
  months or for such longer minimum period, not to exceed 2 years, as may be
  specified by the State) in an inpatient facility; (ii) is receiving Medicaid benefits
  for inpatient services furnished by such inpatient facility; and (iii) with respect
  to whom a determination has been made that, but for the provision of home and
  community-based long- term care services, the individual would continue to
  require the level of care provided in an inpatient facility and, in any case in
  which the State applies a more stringent level of care standard as a result of
  implementing the State plan option permitted under section 1915 (i) of the
  Social Security Act, the individual must continue to require at least the level of
  care which had resulted in admission to the institution.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications can only be submitted by the single State Medicaid agency. A
  cover letter must accompany the application. The cover letter must be signed by
  the State Medicaid Director, and must indicate the title of the project, the
  principal contact person, the amount of funding requested, and the names of the
  major partners actively collaborating in the project.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants are encouraged to submit a non-binding Notice of Intent to Apply.
  Notices of Intent to Apply are not required and their submission or failure to
  submit a notice has no bearing on the scoring of proposals received. But receipt
  of such notices enables CMS to better plan for the application review process.
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit their applications electronically through
  http://www.grants.gov. Please note when submitting your application
  electronically, you are required, additionally, to mail a signed SF 424 to Nicole
  Nicholson, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, Office of Operations
  Management, Acquisition and Grants Group, C2-21-15 Central Building, 7500
  Security Boulevard, Baltimore, MD 21244-1850. The mailed SF 424 form may
  be received at the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services within 2 business
  days of the application closing date.
Award Procedure:
  An independent review of all applications will be conducted by a panel of
  experts including members of the disability community, advocates, providers
  and staff from State and Federal agencies including CMS. The review panel will
  assess each application to determine the merits of the proposal and the extent to
  which it furthers the purposes of the demonstration program. The panel will
  evaluate each application for further review by CMS. CMS reserves the right to
  request that States revise or otherwise modify certain sections of their proposals
  based on the recommendations of the panel and the budget. A low score in one
  or two areas, even if offset by high scores in other areas, may result in a rejection
  of the proposal. Final approval of demonstration projects will be made by the
  Administrator of CMS after consideration of the comments and
  recommendations of the review panelists, program office recommendations, and
  the availability of funds. CMS reserves the right to approve or deny any or all
  proposals for funding. CMS seeks to achieve reasonable balance among the
  grants to be awarded in a particular category in terms of key factors such as
  geographic distribution and broad target group representation. CMS may
  redistribute grant funds (as detailed in the "Award Information" section of this
  solicitation) based upon the number and quality of applications received. (e.g.,
  to adjust the minimum or maximum awards permitted or adjust the aggregate
  amount of Federal funds allotted to a particular category of grants).
Deadlines:
  The deadline for applications is November 1, 2009, (11:59pm Eastern Standard
  Time).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Successful applicants will receive a Financial Assistance Award (FAA) signed
  and dated by the CMS Grants Management Officer. The FAA is the document
  authorizing the grant award and will be sent through the U.S. Postal Service to
  the applicant organization as listed on its SF 424. Any communication between
  CMS and applicants prior to issuance of the FAA is not an authorization to
  begin performance of a project. Unsuccessful applicants will be notified by
  letter, sent through the U.S. Postal Service to the applicant organization as listed
  on its SF 424, after December 1, 2009.
Appeals:
  Appeals are governed by Title 45--Public Welfare SUBTITLE A--
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES PART 16--
