  PROCEDURES OF THE DEPARTMENTAL GRANT APPEALS BOARD.                                   
Renewals:                                                                               
  Any funding allocated for the Federal match for home and community-based              
  services provided under the demonstration for the first year of this grant that       
  remain unspent will be carried over to the next year of the Grant.                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  A State receiving an award under this solicitation will receive reimbursement for     
  home and community-based services provided under the demonstration on a               
  quarterly basis at the following Federal Medical Assistance Percentage (FMAP)         
  rates: Service Category Match rate for 12-month demonstration period                  
  "Qualified HCB program" services Enhanced match HCB Demonstration                     
  services Enhanced match Supplemental Demonstration services Regular FMAP              
  rate Administrative costs will be reimbursed according to the requirements of         
  CFR 42, 433.15.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  The demonstration period is five years. The project period is from January 1,         
  2007 through September 30, 2011. The budget period is from January 1, 2007            
  through September 30, 2011.                                                           
Reports:                                                                                
  Financial Status Report, form (SF-269), will be required to be submitted semi-        
  annually. This financial status report will account for all uses of grant monies      
  during each reporting period. During the pre-implementation period, CMS will          
  work with the grantees to determine if additional reporting requirements              
  imposed. At the end of each demonstration grant year, States will be required to      
  produce documentation that they have not exceeded the determined budget               
  ceiling and meet all CMS financial requirements. The format of this financial         
  report will be determined during the IP phase of the Demonstration Semi-Annual        
  Progress Reports: Web-based reports in a pre-determined format will be required       
  to be submitted semi-annually. The submission of the finalized IP will be due         
  no later than 9 months after receipt of the Notice of Financial Assistance Award.     
   The IP will be considered the First report due under this demonstration.             
Audits:                                                                                 
  Audits must be in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133            
  (Revised, June 24, 1997).                                                             
Records:                                                                                
  Grantees are required to follow 45 CFR 74.53.                                         
Account Identification:                                                                 
  75-0516-0-1-551.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $45,935,063; FY 08 $350,470,000; and FY 09 est $349,270,000.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  There is not a prescribed or predetermined maximum floor or ceiling grant             
  award. Each State is unique in the numbers of individuals that will be projected      
  for transition under the demonstration grant. In addition, the costs of individuals   
  transitioning to community settings may vary, by targeted population.                 
  Applicants are advised to request a grant award that is sufficient in the amount      
  needed to transition the projected individuals into community settings. CMS           
  reserves the right to reduce the requested grant award, based on the number and       
  size of additional grant awards given under this demonstration, as well as            
  because of concerns contained within a State's application (i.e., concerns with       
  the number or costs of individuals projected for transition by the individual         
  State).                                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  This is a new demonstration grant opportunity. First year awards were made            
  available after January 1, 2007.                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  To promote effective outcomes from the demonstration, the statute provides            
  waiver authority for four provisions of title XIX of the Social Security Act, to the

  extent necessary to enable a State initiative to meet the requirements and

  accomplish the purposes of the demonstration. These provisions are: 1.                
  Statewideness (Section 1902(a)(1) of the Social Security Act) - in order to           
  permit implementation of a State initiative in a selected area or areas of the

  State. 2. Comparability (Section 1902(a)(10)(B) - in order to permit a State          
  initiative to assist a selected category or categories of individuals enrolled in the 
  demonstration. 3. Income and Resource Eligibility (Section                            
  1902(a)(10)(C)(i)(III) - in order to permit a State to apply institutional eligibility
  rules to individuals transitioning to community-based care. 4. Provider               
  agreement (Section 1902(a)(27)) - in order to permit a State to implement self-       
  direction services in a cost-effective manner for purposes of this demonstration      
  program. By "State" we refer to the definition provided under 45 CFR 74.2 as          
  any of the several States of the United States, the District of Columbia, the         
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, any territory or possession of the United States,        
  or any agency or instrumentality of a State exclusive of local governments. By        
  "territory or possession" we mean Guam, the U. S. Virgin Islands, American            
  Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. CMS will                 
  reimburse States for home and community-based services provided under the             
  demonstration on a quarterly basis at a rate equal to the State's Federal Medical     
  Assistance Percentage (FMAP) or the State's Enhanced FMAP, as specified in            
  the solicitation. Administrative costs will be reimbursed according to the            
  requirements of CFR 42, 433.15. A complete electronic application package,            


                                                                                   11-08
  including all required forms, for this demonstration grant is available at
  https://apply.grants.gov/forms_apps_idx.html Standard application forms and
  related instructions are available online at http://gsa.gov/forms. Standard forms
  are available as detailed in, Section V.A, Address to Request Application
  Package. The following standard forms must be completed with an original
  signature and enclosed as part of the proposal: SF 424: Official Application for
  Federal Assistance (see Note below*) SF 424A: Budget Information SF 424B:
  Assurances - Non-Construction Programs SF LLL: Disclosure of Lobbying
  Activities PHS-5161-1 (7/00) Additional Certifications - can be found at the
  following website:
  http://apply.grants.gov/forms/sample/SSA_additionalassurances_VI.0.pdf Usual
  Requirements that must be adhered to by law and regulation: Specific
  administrative and policy requirements of grantees as outlined in 45 CFR 74 and
  45 CFR 92, apply to this grant opportunity. All grantees receiving awards under
  these grant programs must meet the requirements of: Title VI of the Civil Rights
  Act of 1964, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, The Age
  Discrimination Act of 1975, Hill-Burton Community Service nondiscrimination
  provisions, and Title II Subtitle A of the Americans with Disabilities Act of
  1990.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Headquarters Office Program Contact: Cathy M. Cope, Centers for Medicare
  and Medicaid Services, 7500 Security Boulevard, Mail Stop S2-14-26,
  Baltimore, MD 21244. Telephone: (410) 786-8287. Web Site Address:
  http://www.cms.hhs.gov/NewFreedomInitiative/02_WhatsNew.asp.
Web Site Address:
  www.cms.hhs.gov/NewFreedomInitiative/02_WhatsNew.asp.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Awards have not been made for this demonstration. Deadline for application is
  November 1, 2006.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The application for this demonstration is comprised of the following 4 parts: Part
  1: Systems Assessment and Gap Analysis Part 2: Demonstration Design Part 3:
  Preliminary Operational Plan and Budget Part 4: Assurances (as defined by
  statute) An independent review of all applications will be conducted by a panel
  of experts including members of the disability community, advocates, providers
  and staff from State and Federal agencies including CMS. The review panel will
  assess each application to determine the merits of the proposal and the extent to
  which it furthers the purposes of the demonstration program. The panel will
  evaluate each application for further review by CMS. CMS reserves the right to
  request that States revise or otherwise modify certain sections of their proposals
  based on the recommendations of the panel and the budget. A low score in one
  or two areas, even if offset by high scores in other areas, may result in a rejection
  of the proposal. Final approval of demonstration projects will be made by the
  Administrator of CMS after consideration of the comments and
  recommendations of the review panelists, program office recommendations, and
  the availability of funds. CMS reserves the right to approve or deny any or all
  proposals for funding. CMS seeks to achieve reasonable balance among the
  grants to be awarded in a particular category in terms of key factors such as
  geographic distribution and broad target group representation. CMS may
  redistribute grant funds (as detailed in the "Award Information" section of this
  solicitation) based upon the number and quality of applications received. (e.g.,
  to adjust the minimum or maximum awards permitted or adjust the aggregate
  amount of Federal funds allotted to a particular category of grants).
93.793 MEDICAID TRANSFORMATION GRANTS
   (Medicaid Transformation Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Deficit Reduction Act of 2005, Public Law 109-171, enacted February 8, 2006,
  Section 6081, Medicaid Transformation Grants.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide Federal payments to States for the adoption of innovative methods to
  improve the effectiveness and efficiency in providing Medical Assistance.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds from the program may be used to fund the following examples of
  innovative methods to improve the effectiveness and efficiency in providing
  Medical Assistance and are not limited to: (1) methods for reducing patient
  error rates through the implementation and use of electronic health record,
  electronic clinical decision support tool, or e-prescribing programs, (2) methods
  for improving rates of collection from estates of amounts owed under Medicaid,
                                                                                    1497
