  (3) methods to reduce waste, fraud and abuse under Medicaid, such as reducing       
  improper payment rates as measured by annual error rate measurement (PERM),         
  (4) implementation of medication risk management program as part of a drug          
  use review program under section 1927(g), (5) methods for reducing, in              
  clinically appropriate ways Medicaid expenditures for covered outpatient drugs,     
  particularly in the categories of greatest drug utilization, by increasing the      
  utilization of generic drugs through the use of education programs and other        
  incentives to promote greater use of generic drugs, and (6) methods of              
  improving access to primary and specialty physician care for the uninsured using    
  integrated university-based hospital and clinic systems. RESTRICTIONS --            
  States may not use funds as the State's share of the Medicaid program costs or as   
  supplemental Disproportionate Share Hospital (DSH) payments.                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Grant applicants are limited to the 51 State Medicaid Agencies and the Medicaid     
  Agencies in the Federal Territories.                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State Medicaid Agencies and the Medicaid Agencies in the Federal Territories.       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Federal funds will be directed to the State Medicaid Agency with the grant          
  award amount identified in the award approval letter. Permissible administrative    
  costs will be determined in accordance with Office of Management and Budget         
  (OMB), Circular No. 87, "Cost Principals for States and Local Governments."         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services (CMS) will issue guidance to         
  States via a State Medicaid Director (SMD) letter regarding the application         
  requirements. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                                
  A State may submit only one application. More than one program concept              
  proposal and budget may be included in the application. Applications must be

  submitted electronically to CMS via E-mail: Matransgrant@cms.hhs.gov.               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  CMS will make a decision for each application received. Each applicant will         
  receive written notification of CMS' decision. Applicants approved for a grant      
  award must submit a letter of acceptance to CMS within 30 days of the date of       
  the award, agreeing to the terms and conditions of the award letter.                
Deadlines:                                                                            
  All applications are due to CMS by October 2, 2009.                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  60 to 90 days.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The law specifies that the method of allocating funds to States shall prefer States 
  that design programs that target health providers that treat significant numbers    
  of Medicaid beneficiaries. Such method shall provide that not less than 25          
  percent of such funds shall be allocated among States the population of which       
  (as determined according to data collected by the United States Census Bureau)      
  as of July 1, 2004, was more than 105 percent of the population of the respective   
  State (as so determined) as of April 1, 2000. No matching funds are required for    
  this program.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Project Period: Under the legislation, a total of $150,000,000 has been made        
  available for the Medicaid Transformation grants. $75,000,000 is available for      
  obligation in FY 2007 and another $75,000,000 is available for obligation in FY     
  2008. All $150,000,000 will be awarded in a single grant solicitation at the        
  beginning of FY 2007 that will cover both years of the program. Funds for FY        
  2008 activities/obligations will not be available until FY 2008. Budget Period:     
  FY 2007 and FY 2008.                                                                
Reports:                                                                              
  States will be required to submit an annual report to CMS related to the            
  programs supported by this award and the report shall include at a minimum: (1)     
  the specific uses of the funds (2) an assessment of quality improvements and        
  clinical outcomes under this program and (3) estimates of cost savings resulting    
  from this program. In addition, States will be required to submit financial reports 
  as required by CMS.                                                                 
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  24, 1997).                                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, supporting documents and progress/annual reports and all         
  other records pertinent to this program shall be retained 3 years.                  
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0516-0-1-551.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $75,000,000; FY 08 $75,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Grant funds will be allocated based on the number of States that apply and meet     
  the grant criteria.                                                                 


1498                                                                            11-08

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  CMS will provide application guidance in the form of a State Medicaid Director
  letter. The letter may be located at www.cms.hhs.gov/MedicaidTransGrant/.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contacts: Tonya Moore, Health Insurance Specialist, Centers for
  Medicare and Medicaid Services, 7500 Security Boulevard, Mail Stop S2-01-16,
  Baltimore, MD 21244. Telephone: (410) 786-0019, E-mail:
  Tonya.Moore@cms.hhs.gov and Wanda Pigatt-Canty, Health Insurance
  Specialist, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, 7500 Security
  Boulevard, Mail Stop S2-01-16, Baltimore, MD 21244. Telephone: (410) 786-
  6177 E-mail: wanda.pigatt-canty@cms.hhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.cms.hhs.gov/MedicaidTransGrant/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Each application will be reviewed by a team of CMS staff. The applicant
  selection criteria will consist of the following but will not be limited to only
  these factors: the project abstract, project narrative and budget.
93.794 REIMBURSEMENT OF STATE COSTS FOR
PROVISION OF PART D DRUGS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR MEDICARE AND MEDICAID SERVICES, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Authorized under Section 402 of the Social Security Amendment of 1967, as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To ensure that the Medicare and Medicaid programs can respond expeditiously
  to the needs of the dual-eligible beneficiaries and beneficiaries who have
  enrolled in a Part D plan and have been determined to be eligible for the low-
  income subsidy. This demonstration would allow States, that have assisted with
  their dual eligible and low-income subsidy entitled populations in obtaining and
  accessing Medicare Part D coverage, to be reimbursed for their efforts.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The demonstration permits Medicare payment to be made to States for amounts
  they have paid for a dual-eligible's Part D drugs, or a low-income subsidy
  entitled Part D plan enrollee's Part D drugs, to the extent that those costs are not
  otherwise recoverable from a Part D plan and are not required Medicaid cost-
  sharing on the part of the beneficiary. In addition to providing Medicare funds to
  reimburse amounts paid by States for Part D drugs, the demonstration would
  also provide payments for certain administrative costs incurred by States.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State: Must have incurred costs in assisting dual eligibles and other low-income
  subsidy entitled beneficiaries receive the prescription medications they need.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State: Must have incurred costs in assisting dual eligibles and other low-income
  subsidy entitled beneficiaries receive the prescription medications they need.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Federal (Medicare) funds must go to a State Medicaid Agency with
  appropriately approved Section 402 demonstration proposals. Administrative
  costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 "Cost
  Principles for State and Local Governments".
Preapplication Coordination:
  States are encouraged to work with CMS in the development of their section 402
  Medicare demonstration proposal. This program is excluded from coverage
  under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  States will complete an application as provided by CMS to request approval for
  participation in this Medicare demonstration.
Award Procedure:
  Approved States will receive an initial payment based on CMS' review of
  submitted claims data to verify that the beneficiary is a dual eligible beneficiary
  or a low-income subsidy entitled beneficiary as defined in this demonstration
  and that the prescription drug is a Part D drug. CMS will also reimburse the
  State for additional costs determined by CMS to be eligible under the
  demonstration, including costs due to the State for drug payments that exceed
  plan payments, as well as allowed administrative costs specified in the
  demonstration application.
Deadlines:
