  The State costs eligible for reimbursement under this Medicare demonstration        
  must be related to the provision of Part D drugs to dual eligible and low-income    
  subsidy entitled beneficiaries dispensed during the period of January 1, 2009       
  and no later than March 31, 2009.                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  The State costs eligible for reimbursement under this Medicare demonstration        
  must be related to the provision of Part D drugs to dual eligible and low-income    
  subsidy entitled beneficiaries dispensed during the period January 1, 2009 to no    
  later than March 31, 2009.                                                          
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. It is being         
  funded under the Federal Supplementary Medical Insurance Trust Fund. THE            
  STATES ARE NOT TO USE THE MEDICARE FUNDING UNDER THIS                               
  DEMONSTRATION AS STATE MEDICAID MATCHING FUNDS.                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Project Period: No payments shall be made for State costs associated with the       
  provision of Part D drugs to dual-eligible and low-income subsidy entitled          
  beneficiaries that are incurred after March 31, 2009. Budget Period: Qualifying     
  costs are reimbursed in full.                                                       
Reports:                                                                              
  States must submit fiscal and statistical reports, as required by CMS.              
Audits:                                                                               
  The States may be subject to audit by other Federal agencies including the          
  Office of the Inspector General.                                                    
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other         
  records pertinent to the demonstration shall be retained for at least three years or
  until resolution of any audit questions.                                            
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-8308-0-7-571.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not        
  available.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Floor: $0; Ceiling: Federal contractor will compute the reconciliation payments     
  the Federal government will make to the States for amounts the State paid in        
  excess of Part D prescription drug plan payments and associated administrative      
  costs realized during the Part D prescription drug plan transition period.          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  None.                                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Contact the Regional Administrator, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid               
  Services (see appendix IV of the Catalog for addresses and telephone numbers).      
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: Christine Hinds, Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services,       
  7500 Security Boulevard, Mail Stop C1-26-12, Baltimore, MD 21244.                   
  Telephone: (410) 786-4578.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.cms.hhs.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.778, Medical Assistance Program; 93.774, Medicare_Supplementary Medical          
  Insurance.                                                                          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
93.822 HEALTH CAREERS OPPORTUNITY PROGRAM                                             
                                                                                      
   (HCOP)                                                                             
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 739, 42 U.S.C. 293c, as amended;      
  Health Professions Education Partnership Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The HCOP program strives to develop a more competitive applicant pool to            
  build diversity in the health professions. The program's goal is to provide

                                                                                      
  students from economically and educationally disadvantaged backgrounds an           
  opportunity to develop the skills needed to successfully compete to enter and       
  graduate from health professions schools, allied health professions schools,        
  graduate programs in behavioral and mental health, and programs for the             
  training of physician assistants.



                                                                                 11-08
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 739 provides for assisting individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds
  to undertake education to enter a health or allied health profession. Grant funds
  may be used for: (1) recruitment; (2) facilitating entry; (3) counseling, mentoring
  and other services; (4) preliminary education and health research training; (5)
  financial aid/information dissemination; (6) primary care exposure activities; (7)
  development of a more competitive applicant pool; and (8) stipends.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants include accredited schools of medicine, osteopathic
  medicine, public health, dentistry, veterinary medicine, optometry, pharmacy,
  allied health, chiropractic, podiatric medicine, public and nonprofit private
  schools that offer graduate programs in behavioral and mental health, programs
  for the training of physician assistants, and other public or private nonprofit
  health or educational entities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Students who meet the definition of either educationally or economically
  disadvantaged, and who express an interest in pursuing a health degree program
  are eligible for participation in an HCOP program during their primary,
  secondary pre-professional, and professional education. Students must be U.S.
  citizens, non-citizen nationals, or foreign nationals who possess a visa
  permitting permanent residence in the United States. An individual will be
  determined to be disadvantaged if he or she comes from a background that has
  inhibited the individual from obtaining the knowledge, skills, and abilities
  required to enroll in and graduate from a health professions school or program
  providing education or training in an allied health profession; or comes from a
  family with an annual income below a level based on low income thresholds
  according to family size published by the Bureau of the Census, adjusted
  annually for changes in the Consumer Price Index, and adjusted by the Secretary
  for use in health professions programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from
  Headquarters Office.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 4 months after receipt of applications.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Competitive continuations may be submitted during the final budget period
  within an approved project period.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects periods are 3 years.
Reports:
  A Uniform Summary Progress Report must be submitted for a second or
  subsequent budget period within a previously approved project period. An
  annual financial status report are required 90 days after the end of each budget
  period. A final progress report and final financial status report must be
  submitted within 90 days after the end of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
                                                                                  1499
