  resolved.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                                 
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $3,957,000; FY 08 est $9,825,000; and FY 09 est not available.         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  In FY 2008, it is estimated that there will be 1 competing continuation award         
  and 14 new competing awards issued. The range of FY 2008 financial assistance         
  is estimated to be $66,083 to $1,454,970, with an average award of $618,803. A        
  competitive application cycle is not planned for FY 2009.                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In FY 2007, there were 4 non-competing continuations. In FY 2008, it is               
  estimated that there will be 15 HCOP projects.                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and      
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,           
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as             
  applicable.                                                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Stuart Weiss, Acting Chief, Diversity Branch, Division of Diversity and               
  Interdisciplinary Education, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and       
  Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Room 9-             
  36, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857.                                           
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                  
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                  
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.              
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)           
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                        
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Summer and academic year projects were conducted offering preliminary                 
  education at pre-health professions schools and U.S. health and allied health         
  professions schools for facilitating entry and retention activities for individuals   
  from disadvantaged backgrounds.                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  All competitive applications will be reviewed on the basis of: (1) The applicant's    
  record in developing, training, and strengthening the academic performance of         
  disadvantaged students throughout the educational pipeline, including health          
  professions schools, (2) the needs assessment study, (3) the established              
  relationship between the program's stated needs, objectives, and outcomes, (4)        
  the project's plan for developing and expanding the pool of competitive health        
  professions school applicants, (5) the qualifications and experience of the faculty   
  and staff to implement and manage an HCOP program, as well as the experience          
  of the faculty and staff in working with the proposed target group, (6) evidence      
  that formal linkages have been established in order to create a more                  
  comprehensive HCOP program, (7) the project activities and their reasonability        
  given the proposed level of staff effort, length of project period and budget         
  requested, resources available, and linkages established, (8) the proposed            
  methods for evaluating the project (including data collection, analysis and           
  reporting procedures, quality control methods and type of personnel involved,         
  (9) the budget's demonstration of effective utilization of grant funds and how        
  reasonable is the request, (a) a detailed justification for each line item, (b) the   
  level of in-kind support and other sources of funds, both Federal and non-            
  Federal, the applicant proposes to utilize for carrying out the program, (c) the      
  applicant's proposed plan for continuation of the proposed project beyond the         
  federally-funded project period, (10) the demonstrated knowledge and expertise        
  the applicant possess for coordinating activities with school districts and other     
  community based entities, as well as identifying and leveraging resources from        
  private, philanthropic, business and other government entities.                       
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
93.824 BASIC/CORE AREA HEALTH EDUCATION                                                 
CENTERS                                                                                 
   (AHEC)                                                                               
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                         
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 751(a)(l), as amended; Health           
  Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  The Basic/Core Area Health Education Centers (BAHEC) Program and Model                
  State Supported Area Health Education Centers (MAHEC) Program goals are to            
  assist schools to improve the distribution, diversity, supply, and quality of health  
  personnel in the health services delivery system, and to attract and retain health    


1500                                                                              11-08

  personnel in underserved areas. The AHEC Program awardees link the
  academic resources of medical schools and participating health professions
  schools with local educational and clinical sites, and thereby establish a network
  of community-based training sites to provide educational services to health
  professions students, faculty-preceptors and health care providers in underserved
  areas, and ultimately, to improve the delivery of health care in an underserved
  region or in an entire state. Emphasis is placed on community-based training of
  health professions students, primary care-oriented medical residents, local
  providers, and also 9-12 grade students. The BAHEC program assists schools in
  the initial planning, development and implementation of community-based Area
  Health Education Centers (AHECs) which assist schools and organize the
  training of at least three health professions disciplines at training-service
  delivery sites in rural and underserved areas, of a region or an entire state.
  Schools which complete Basic AHEC Program development, then compete for
  Model AHEC Program awards in partnership with affiliated (contracted) AHEC
  Centers to maintain and enhance/expand training programs and training sites
  responsive to local, State and Federal needs and priorities. The BAHEC and
  MAHEC programs embrace the goal of increasing the number of health
  professions graduates who ultimately practice in underserved areas. Both AHEC
  programs carry out health careers recruitment and enhancement activities to
  attract high school students from underserved areas into health careers.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Cooperative Agreements may not be used for construction, patient services, nor
  student tuition or stipends.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants for Area Health Education Centers (AHEC) Program
  cooperative agreements under Section 751(a)(1) include public or private
  nonprofit accredited schools of medicine and osteopathic medicine and
  incorporated consortia made up of such schools, or the parent institutions of
  such schools. Also, in States in which no AHEC program is in operation, an
  accredited school of nursing is an eligible applicant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Accredited public or nonprofit schools of allopathic medicine or osteopathic
  medicine, the parent institution on behalf of such schools, and also, accredited
  schools of nursing in States in which no AHEC program is in operation.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from the
  Headquarters Office.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 4 to 6 months from receipt of application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Competitive continuations may be submitted during the final budget year of the
  approved project.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Awardees shall make available (directly through contributions from State,
  county or municipal government, or the private sector) non-Federal
  contributions in cash in an amount not less than 50 percent of the operating
  costs of the AHEC Program, except that the Secretary may grant a waiver for up
  to 75 percent of the amount required in the first 3 years in which an awardee
  receives funds under this section: Section 751 (a)(1) of the PHS Act as
  amended.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are available for expenditure during appropriate budget period.
Reports:
  A Uniform Progress Report must be submitted annually. A financial status
  report must be submitted within 90 days after the end of each budget period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
