  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of        
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-   
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going           
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely  
  resolved.                                                                          
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0350-0-1-550.

Obligations:

  (Grants-Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $12,262,320; FY 08 est. $13,200,000;

                                                                                     
  and FY 09 est not reported.                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $285,321 to $2,652,203; $1,158,546.                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 07, seven competing and seven non-competing applications for a total of      
  14 Basic AHEC Program awards were made. It is expected that 13 awards will         
  be made in FY 08.                                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and   
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,        
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.             
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  David Hanny, Ph.D., M.P.H, or CAPT Norma Hatot, Program Officers, AHEC             
  Branch, Division of Diversity and Interdisciplinary Education, Bureau of Health    
  Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of           
  Health and Human Services, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 9-36,        
  Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6950.                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants               
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,               
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.           
  Health Services Branch: 301-443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)          
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  All projects are funded to meet the objectives as stated above. Community-based    
  primary care training is provided at three levels: (1) Undergraduate medical       
  students plus at least two associated health professions, e.g., nursing dentistry, 
  mental health, pharmacy, allied health; (2) graduate-primary care residents, e.g., 
  family medicine, general internal medicine or general pediatrics; and (3)          
  continuing education- to full range of local providers, including NHSC             
  personnel. Health career training experiences to be provided to elementary or      
  secondary students from medically underserved areas. Funded programs are           
  listed at http://bhpr.hrsa.gov/ahec/basic.htm .                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  In determining the funding of applications, consideration is given to: (1) NEED    
  Demonstrates an understanding of the purpose of the AHEC program, and              
  demonstrates an understanding of the identified need(s) as evidenced by the        
  applicant's description of target population(s) and geographic areas validated     
  with supporting data, demographics, health status of the target population(s),     
  and associated contributing factors which the proposed AHEC project intends to     
  address in the area(s) to be served by the area health education center(s); (2)    
  RESPONSE The degree to which the proposed project responds to the program          
  requirements as set forth in Sections 751(a)(l) and 751(a)(2) of the PHS Act, as   
  amended; degree to which project activities address the AHEC Project and           
  Center requirements; clarity of the project objectives and their relationship to   
  the identified need(s); extent to which project objectives are measurable and      
  attainable within the stated timeframe; clarity of the proposed work plan and      
  mechanisms to assure that satisfactory progress is attained; extent to which the   
  project fulfills the cost sharing/matching requirements; degree to which project   
  challenges and plans to overcome barriers are addressed; and degree to which       
  the project meets the Medical School 10 Percent Requirement; (3)                   
  EVALUATIVE MEASURES The adequacy of the evaluation strategy to monitor             
  and evaluate project results: potential of evaluative measures to assess the extent
  to which project objectives are met and to what extent these can be attributed to  
  the project; clarity of methods and techniques that will be used to measure,       
  analyze, and report the outcomes of each objective; and the extent to which the    
  proposed project adequately responds to AHEC Program performance measures          
  and outcome indicators; the points will be allocated across the performance        
  measures of Distribution, Diversity, and Quality; (4) IMPACT The potential of      
  the proposed AHEC program and participating center(s) to continue on a self-       
  sustaining basis; identification of plans for effective, efficient dissemination of
  project results; potential of project results to be of national significance; and  


                                                                                11-08
  potential for replication of project activities; (5) RESOURCES/CAPABILITIES
  Evidence of qualifications in key personnel bio-sketches; evidence of adequate
  staffing plan for proposed project; evidence of ability to implement complex
  programs with similar requirements; evidence of institutional support, e.g.,
  resources and letters of support; and evidence of successful partnerships and
  linkages with academic and community-based organizations; (6) SUPPORT
  REQUESTED Evidence of a reasonable detailed budget and budget rationale to
  accomplish the project objectives; evidence of fiscal capability to successfully
  manage cooperative agreements and contracts; and evidence of efforts to become
  self-sufficient, e.g., other sources of income, income generation plans, and future
  funding strategies.
93.837 CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASES RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301, 422 and 487, as amended, Public Laws
  78-410 and 99-158, 42 U.S.C. 241, 42 U.S.C. 285, and 42 U.S.C. 288, as
  amended; Small Business Reauthorization Act of 2000, Public Law 106-554.
OBJECTIVES:
  To foster research and prevention, education, and control activities related to
  heart and vascular diseases and to develop young scientist investigators in these
  areas. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program: To increase private
  sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; to increase small business participation in Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in technological innovation. Small Business Technology
  Transfer (STTR) program: To stimulate and foster scientific and technological
  innovation through cooperative research and development carried out between
  small business concerns and research institutions; to foster technology transfer
  between small business concerns and research institutions; to increase private
  sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in technological innovation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants may support salaries, equipment, supplies, travel, and patient
  hospitalization as required to perform the research effort. Restrictions or
  limitations are imposed against the use of funds for entertainment, foreign travel,
  general-purpose equipment, alterations and renovations, and other items not
  regularly required for the performance of research. Individual Predoctoral and
  Postdoctoral National Research Service Awards (NRSAs) are made directly to
  individuals for research training in specified biomedical shortage areas.
  Institutional NRSA awards may be made to eligible institutions to enable them
  to appoint individuals selected by the institution. Certain service and payback
  provisions may apply to postdoctoral individuals upon termination of the award
  or termination of the appointment. SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-
  months' duration) are to establish the technical merit and feasibility of a
  proposed research effort that may lead to a commercial product or process.
  Phase II grants are for the continuation of research initiated in Phase I that is
  likely to result in commercial products or processes. Only Phase I awardees are
  eligible to apply for Phase II support. Some Phase II awardees may be eligible to
  apply for funds to continue research for up to three years beyond the original
  Phase II award. Eligible projects involve assessment and improvement of drugs
  or devices or propose to conduct preclinical studies of drugs or devices that
  ultimately require: 1) clinical evaluation and/or 2) approval of a Federal
  regulatory agency. The product being developed must be one for which Federal
  regulatory approval (e.g., FDA) is a required step toward commercialization.
  Prospective applicants are strongly encouraged to contact NIH staff to determine
  eligibility. STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine
  the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed
  cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase II funding
  is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical
  merit and commercial potential of Phase II application.
Applicant Eligibility:
  To be eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific
  merit and program relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory
  council. Any nonprofit organization engaged in biomedical research and
  institutions or companies organized for profit may apply for almost any kind of
  grant. Only domestic, non-profit, private or public institutions may apply for
  NRSA Institutional Research Training Grants. An individual may apply for an
  NRSA or, in some cases, for a research grant if adequate facilities to perform the
  research are available. SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small
  businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not
  dominant in the field in which research is being proposed, and have no more
                                                                                  1501
