  than 500 employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of the             
  principal investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and      
  during the conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the        
  research must be performed in the U.S. or its possessions. To be eligible for        
  funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit and program       
  relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council. STTR         
  grants can be awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are    
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in        
  which research is proposed and have no more than 500 employees) that formally        
  collaborate with a university or other non-profit research institution in            
  cooperative research and development. At least 40 percent of the project is to be    
  performed by the small business concern and at least 30 percent by the research      
  institution. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must be performed in the     
  U.S. and its possessions.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Research project grants and cooperative agreements, training and career              
  development grants, and SBIR and STTR grants.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Individual NRSAs and Institutional NRSA trainees must be citizens of the             
  United States or have been admitted for permanent residency; must hold a             
  doctoral degree (M.D., Ph.D., D.D.S., D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., D.Eng., or                
  equivalent domestic or foreign degree); and must possess a desire for training in    
  one of the health or health-related areas specified by the National Institutes of    
  Health. Each applicant must be sponsored by an accredited public or private          
  nonprofit institution engaged in such training. Costs will be determined in          
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments. For-          
  profit organization costs are determined in accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the      
  Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other grantees, costs will be determined in     
  accordance with DHHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and            
  STTR grants, the applicant organization (small business concern) must present,       
  in a research plan, an idea that has potential for commercialization and must        
  furnish evidence that scientific competence, experimental methods, facilities,       
  equipment, and funds requested are appropriate to carry out the plan. The grant      
  application form SF424 (R&R) is used to apply for all SBIR and STTR grants.          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Research grant applications are submitted on designated forms to the Center for      
  Scientific Review, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. Forms          
  for individual and Institutional NRSA award applications may be obtained from        
  and submitted to: Center for Scientific Review, National Institutes of Health,       
  Bethesda, MD 20892. For some special grant programs, applicants may be               
  advised to submit directly to the Review Branch, Division of Extramural Affairs,     
  National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892. The standard          
  application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR, Part 92 for           
  State and local governments, must be used for this program. SBIR and STTR            
  Grant Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained                   
  electronically through the NIH's "Small Business Funding Opportunities" home         
  page at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/oer.htm . The Solicitation includes             
  submission procedures, review considerations, and grant application or contract      
  proposal forms. SBIR and STTR grant applications should be submitted                 
  electronically submitted through the federal portal of Grants.gov.                   
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  All accepted applications are evaluated by an appropriate initial review group       
  (study section). All grant applications receive a final secondary review by the      
  National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council. Staff inform applicants of         
  the results of the review. If support is contemplated, staff initiate preparation of 
  awards for grants. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for             
  scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer review panel and    
  by a national advisory council or board. All applications receiving a priority       
  score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on the basis of scientific     
  and technical merit and commercial potential of the proposed research, program       
  relevance, and program balance among the areas of research.                          
Deadlines:                                                                             
  New Research Grants: February 5, June 5, and October 5 (or as specified in           
  Request for Applications (RFA) announcements). Renewals and Supplementals:           
  March 5, July 5, and November 5. Institutional NRSAs: January 25 (new,               
  resubmission, amended, and renewal applications) and September 25                    
  (resubmission and amended applications). Individual NRSA: April 8, August 8,         
  and December 8. SBIR and STTR Grants: April 5, August 5, and December 5.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Regular Grants: From 7 to 9 months. SBIR/STTR Grants: About 9 months.                
Appeals:                                                                               
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects   
  of the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the          
  National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute.                                           
Renewals:                                                                              
  Renewal applications are reviewed in the same manner as new applications.            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                      


1502                                                                             11-08

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council may recommend
  funding for periods typically ranging from one to five years. Funding
  commitments are made annually. Usually, SBIR Phase I awards are for six
  months and Phase II for two years, and STTR Phase I awards are for one year
  and Phase II are for two years.
Reports:
  Annual reports on progress and expenditures are required. Final reports are
  required within 120 days of termination. Reports are required after termination
  of NRSAs to ascertain compliance with the service and payback provisions.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report
  period.
Account Identification:
  75-0872-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,556,459,000; FY 08 est $1,556,459,000; and FY 09 est
  $1,556,459,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Grants: $16,600 to $4,444,879; $441,745. SBIR/STTR: Phase I - $100,000;
  Phase II - up to $750,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 2,930 research grants and National Research Service Awards
  were made. The estimates of fiscal year 2008 are 2671 research grants and 259
  National Research Service awards. The estimates for fiscal year 2009 are 2,671
  research grants and 259 National Research Service Awards. In fiscal year 2007,
  for new and competing renewal awards: 4,070 grant applications were received,
  and of these, 814 were awarded; 304 National Research Service Award
  applications were received, and of these, 72 were awarded. Small Business
  innovation Research Awards/Small Technology Transfer Research Awards: In
  fiscal year 2007, 34 Phase I awards, and 16 Phase II awards were made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  42 CFR 52; 42 CFR 66; 45 CFR 74; "NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts, and
  Supplements"; Grants will be available under the authority of and administered
  in accordance with the PHS Grants Policy Statement and Federal regulations at
  42 CFR 52 and 42 USC 241; Omnibus Solicitation of the Public Health Service
  for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant and Cooperative
  Agreement Applications; Omnibus Solicitation of the National Institutes of
  Health for Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Grant Applications.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Director, Division of Heart and Vascular Diseases, National
  Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Department of
  Health and Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 435-0466.
  SBIR Program: Deputy Director, Division of Extramural Affairs, National Heart,
  Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health
  and Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 435-0266. Grants
  Management Contact: Grants Management Officer, Grants Operations Branch,
  National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health,
  Department of Health and Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone:
  (301) 435-0166. Use the same numbers for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nih.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.838, Lung Diseases Research; 93.839, Blood Diseases and Resources
  Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS (1) Investigator-initiated research
  project grants on the surgical treatment of cardiac arrythmias, on growth-factor
  mediation of healing in vascular grafts, and on mechanisms for cardiovascular
  control early in diabetes. (2) Institute-initiated research project grants on stem
  cell research in cardiomyopathy, on using adult stem cells to repair cardiac
  damage, and on altered glucose and lipid metabolism in obesity and
  cardiovascular disease. (3) AIDS-related research project grants on
  cardiomyopathy, on mitochondrial nucleotide carriers, and on endothelial
  oxidative stress and atherosclerosis. (4) An institute-initiated program project, a
  center of excellence in gene therapy. (5) Investigator-initiated program project
  grants on genetic approaches to early cardiac development, on oxidative stress
