  and diabetic cardiovascular disease, and on the biomechanics of the heart,           
  vessels, and blood cells. (6) Institute-initiated Specialized Centers of Research    
  (SCORs) on the arterial wall and atherogenesis in mice and humans, and on            
  heart failure. (7) Cooperative agreements for a clinical trial of the surgical       
  treatment for ischemic heart failure, for a pediatric heart disease clinical research
  network, and for a center on fetal monkey gene transfer for heart, lung, and         
  blood. (8) SBIR and STTR grants on tissue-engineered blood vessels, coatings to      
  prevent thrombosis and restenosis, gene therapy for angiogenesis, pediatric          
  circulatory support devices, continuous blood pressure monitors, and vascular        
  imaging systems. (9) Training grants on translational cardiovascular science and     
  medicine, on developmental cardiology and pulmonary training, and on                 
  cardiovascular biomechanics and imaging.                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The           
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;  
  (2)the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the           
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the          
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;    
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed     
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.       
  The following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical      
  merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical       
  merit of the proposed approach; (2) the importance of the problem the proposed       
  research will address; (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal              
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (4) the technological innovation    
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for             
  commercial application; (6) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (7) the     
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (8)         
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for        
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or          
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications        
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the      
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and     
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;      
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and 
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance   
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for             
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the       
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research       
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the      
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)             
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.              
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.838 LUNG DISEASES RESEARCH                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                              
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301, 422 and 487, as amended, Public Laws         
  78-410 and 99-158, 42 U.S.C. 241, 42 U.S.C. 285, and 42 U.S.C. 288, as               
  amended; Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of                  
  1992, Public Law 102-564.                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To use available knowledge and technology to solve specific disease problems of      
  the lungs; to promote further studies on the structure and function of the lung;     
  and to achieve improvement in the prevention and treatment of lung diseases.         
  Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program: To expand and improve             
  the SBIR program; to increase private sector commercialization of innovations        
  derived from Federal research and development; to increase small business            
  participation in Federal research and development; and to foster and encourage       
  participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small business              
  concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological                    
  innovation. Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program: To stimulate          
  and foster scientific and technological innovation through cooperative research      
  and development carried out between small business concerns and research             
  institutions; to foster technology transfer between small business concerns and      
  research institutions; to increase private sector commercialization of innovations   
  derived from Federal research and development; and to foster and encourage           
  participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small business              
  concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological                    
  innovation.                                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants may support salaries, equipment, supplies, travel, and patient                
  hospitalization as required to perform the research effort. Restrictions or          
  limitations are imposed against the use of funds for entertainment, foreign travel,  
  general-purpose equipment, alterations and renovations, and other items not          
  regularly required for the performance of research. National Research Service        
                                                                                  11-08
  Awards (NRSAs) are made directly to individuals for research training in
  specified biomedical shortage areas. Grants may be made to institutions to
  enable them to make NRSAs to individuals selected by them. Certain service
  and payback provisions apply to individuals upon termination of the award.
  SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-months' duration) are to establish the
  technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a
  commercial product or process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the
  research initiated in Phase I and which are likely to result in commercial
  products or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to apply for Phase II
  support. STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration) are to determine the
  scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the proposed
  cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase II funding
  is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical
  merit and commercial potential on Phase II application.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any nonprofit organization engaged in biomedical research, as well as
  institutions or companies organized for profit, may apply for grants with the
  exception of NRSAs. An individual may apply for a NRSA or, in some cases,
  may qualify for a research grant if adequate facilities in which to perform the
  research are available. SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small
  businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not
  dominant in the field in which research is proposed and have no more than 500
  employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of the principal
  investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and during the
  conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must
  be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant
  application must be approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a
  scientific review group and a national advisory council. STTR grants can be
  awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in
  which research is proposed and have no more that 500 employees) which
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development. At
  least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business concern
  and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and Phase II,
  the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for
  funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit and program
  relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory council.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company or institution engaged in
  biomedical research. Only domestic for-profit small business firms may apply
  for SBIR and STTR programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants for individual National Research Service Awards must be citizens of
  the United States or have been admitted for permanent residency; must hold a
  doctoral degree (M.D., Ph.D., D.D.S., D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., D. Eng., or
  equivalent domestic or foreign degree); and must designate a desire for training
  in one of the health or health-related areas specified by the National Institutes of
  Health. Each applicant must be sponsored by an accredited public or private
  nonprofit institution engaged in such training. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments. For-
  profit organizations' costs are determined in accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the
  Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other grantees, costs will be determined in
  accordance with HHS regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and
  STTR grants, applicant organization (small business concern) must present in a
  research plan an idea that has potential for commercialization and furnish
  evidence that scientific competence, experimental methods, facilities,
  equipment, and funds requested are appropriate to carry out the plan. Grant
  forms PHS 6246-1 and PHS 6246-2 are used to apply for SBIR Phase I and
  Phase II, respectively. Grant forms PHS 6246-3 and PHS 6246-4 are used to
  apply for STTR Phase I and Phase II, respectively.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Research grant applications are submitted on designated forms to the Center for
  Scientific Review, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. Forms
  for individual NRSA applications may be obtained from and submitted to the
  Office of Research Manpower, Center for Scientific Review, National Institutes
  of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. For some special grant programs, applicants
  may be advised to submit directly to the Review Branch, Division of Extramural
  Affairs, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Bethesda, MD 20892. The
  standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR, Part
  92, must be used for this program. SBIR and STTR Grant Solicitations and
  SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained electronically through the NIH's
  "Small Business Funding Opportunities" home page at
  www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World Wide Web. A limited
  number of hard copies of these publications are produced. Subject to
  availability, they may be obtained by contacting the NIH support services
  contractor: Telephone: (301) 206-9385; Fax: (301) 206-9722; E-mail:
  a2y@cu.nih.gov. The Solicitations include submission procedures, review
  considerations, and grant application or contract proposal forms. SBIR and
                                                                                   1503
