  STTR grant applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific              
  Review, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1040 - MSC 7710, Bethesda, MD 20892-               
  7710.                                                                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  All accepted applications are evaluated by an appropriate initial review group        
  (study section). All grant applications receive a final secondary review by the       
  National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council. Staff informs applicants of         
  the results of the review. If support is contemplated, staff initiates preparation of 
  awards for grants. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for              
  scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer review panel and     
  by a national advisory council or board. All applications receiving a priority        
  score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on the basis of scientific      
  and technical merit and commercial potential of the proposed research, program        
  relevance, and program balance among the areas of research.                           
Deadlines:                                                                              
  New Research Grants: February 1, June 1, and October 1 (or as specified in            
  Request for Applications (RFA) announcements). Renewals and Supplementals:            
  March 1, July 1, and November 1. Institutional NRSAs: January 10 and May 10.          
   Individual NRSA: April 5, August 5, and December 5. SBIR and STTR Grants:            
  April 1, August 1, and December 1.                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Regular Grants: From 7 to 9 months. SBIR/STTR Grants: About 7-1/2 months.             
Appeals:                                                                                
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects    
  of the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the           
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available        
  on the NIH home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html.                  
Renewals:                                                                               
  Renewal applications are reviewed in the same manner as new applications.             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  The Advisory Council may recommend funding for periods from 1 to 5 years.             
  Funding commitments are made annually. SBIR: Normally, Phase I awards are             
  for 6 months; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years. STTR: Normally, Phase        
  I awards are for 1 year; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years.                   
Reports:                                                                                
  Annual reports on progress and expenditures. Final reports are required within        
  120 days of termination. Reports are required after termination of National           
  Research Service Awards to ascertain compliance with the service and payback          
  provisions.                                                                           
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that      
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal            
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are             
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government                 
  officials.                                                                            
Records:                                                                                
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the        
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report      
  period.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                                 
  75-0872-0-1-552.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $582,448,863; FY 08 est $582,448,863; and FY 09 est                    
  $582,448,863.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $41,250 to $1,042,563; $409,686. Small Business Innovation Research/Small             
  Business Technology Awards: Phase I - $100,000; Phase II - up to $750,000 for         
  STTR and up to $750,000 for SBIR.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In fiscal year 2007, 1,213 research grants and 106 National Research Service          
  Awards were made. The estimates for fiscal year 2008 are 1,213 research grants        
  and 106 National Research Service Awards. The estimates for fiscal year 2009          
  are 1,213 research grants and 106 National Research Service Awards. In fiscal         
  year 2007, for new and competing renewal awards: 1,595 grant applications             
  were received, and of these, 319 were awarded; 200 National Research Service          
  Award applications were received, and of these, 42 were awarded. Small                
  Business Innovation Research/Technology Transfer Awards: In fiscal year 2007,         
  16 Phase I awards and 13 Phase II awards were made.                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  42 CFR 52; 42 CFR 66; 45 CFR 74; 45 CFR 92; "NIH Guide for Grants and                 
  Contracts, and Supplements"; PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication            
  No. (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994; Grants will be available under the        
  authority of and administered in accordance with the PHS Grants Policy                
  Statement and Federal regulations at 42 CFR 52 and 42 U.S.C. 241; Omnibus             


1504                                                                              11-08

  Solicitation of the Public Health Service for Small Business Innovation Research
  (SBIR) Grant and Cooperative Agreement Applications. Omnibus Solicitation of
  the National Institutes of Health for Small Business Technology Transfer
  (STTR) Grant Applications.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contacts: Dr. James Kiley, Director, Division of Lung Diseases,
  National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Public
  Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, Bethesda, MD
  20892, Telephone: (301) 435-0233. Small Business Innovation Research
  Program: Mrs. Ann Rothgeb, Program Specialist, Airway Biology and Disease
  Program, Division of Lung Diseases, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute,
  National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and
  Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 435-0202. Grants
  Management. Contact: Ms. Suzanne White, Grants Management Officer, Grants
  Operations Branch, Division of Extramural Affairs, National Heart, Lung and
  Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department
  of Health and Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 435-
  0144. Use the same numbers for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.837, Cardiovascular Diseases Research; 93.839, Blood Diseases and
  Resources Research; 93.233, National Center on Sleep Disorders Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) An individual research grant to investigate basic mechanisms of primary
  pulmonary hypertension, a lethal disease that causes progressive obstruction of
  small pulmonary arteries. This grant has established a national registry of
  familial primary pulmonary hypertension that is providing the framework for
  linkage analysis and the molecular search for basic mechanisms of this disease.
  (2) A multi-project grant dealing with cellular and molecular mechanisms
  underlying acute and chronic asthma. The focus of this program is on the
  mechanisms causing asthma in humans. The work includes laboratory projects,
  animal research, and human studies. The work includes laboratory projects and
  animal research concentrated on the cellular pathways of the asthmatic
  inflammatory process, focused on the mast cell, a critical cell type in asthma. (3)
  A Specialized Center of Clinically Oriented Research (SCCOR) grant in
  Translational Research in Acute Lung Injury. This grant consists of several
  projects that combine basic and clinical research with the goal of improving the
  outcome of patients with Acute Lung Injury. The investigators are studying
  novel mechanisms and treatments for this syndrome. The grant includes a
  clinical trial of Activated Protein C, to inhibit coagulation and inflammation, a
  study to identify the role of transforming growth factor B1 as a mechanism
  underlying the disease and a novel study of genetic factors that might increase
  susceptibility in patients with severe pneumonia and acute lung injury. The
  program includes genetic, proteomic, and molecular biological approaches in
  addition to the clinical trial. (4) An individual National Research Service Award
  to study the effect of the interruptions in breathing during sleep caused by sleep
  apnea. The investigator will study the expression of genes in response to
  intermittent hypoxia and sustained hypoxia, which cause pulmonary
  vasoconstriction and systemic vasodilation. The research training and
  coursework received under the award will provide a foundation of skills the
  investigator will use to study the deleterious effect of intermittent hypoxia on the
  cardiopulmonary system. (5) A Small Business Technology Transfer Program
  for development of a Thermal HydroSeal (THS) system that will allow surgeons
  to seal air leaks that arise on the raw lung surface exposed during a lobectomy.
  Surgical resections, are common procedures in lung cancer patients.
  Postoperative air leakage at the parenchymal surfaces following lung resections,
  is a frequent complication which can result in extended hospital stays. The
  development of this device will be useful to pulmonary physicians, providing
  them with an effective system to seal air leaks, which should improve patient
  recovery and reduce hospital stays.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.
  The following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical
  merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical
  merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the scientific, technical, or
  technological innovation of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the
  proposed research for commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the
  budget requested; (6) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research
  environment; and (7) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)
