  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II    
  grant applications will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The      
  degree to which the Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2)   
  the scientific and technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the       
  Phase II objectives; (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, 
  supporting staff, and consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or
  societal importance of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed     
  research for commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget           
  requested for the work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities 
  and research environment; (8) The adequacy of plans to include both genders         
  and minorities and their subgroups as appropriate for the scientific goals of the   
  research. Plans for the recruitment and retention of subjects will be evaluated;    
  and (9) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed         
  means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting          
  against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.                        
                                                                                      
93.839 BLOOD DISEASES AND RESOURCES RESEARCH                                          
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                             
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301, 422, and 487, as amended, Public Laws       
  78-410 and 99-158, 42 U.S.C. 241, 42 U.S.C. 285 and 42 U.S.C. 288, as               
  amended; Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of                 
  1992, Public Law 102-564.                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To foster research and research training on the pathophysiology, diagnosis,         
  treatment, and prevention of non-malignant blood diseases, including anemias,       
  sickle cell disease, thalassemia; leukocyte biology, pre-malignant processes such   
  as myelodysplasia and myeloproliferative disorders; hemophilia and other            
  abnormalities of hemostasis and thrombosis; and immune dysfunction. Funding         
  encompasses a broad spectrum of hematologic inquiry, ranging from stem cell         
  biology to medical management of blood diseases and to assuring the adequacy        
  and safety of the nation's blood supply. Programs also support the development      
  of novel cell-based therapies to bring the expertise of transfusion medicine and    
  stem cell technology to the repair and regeneration of human tissues and organs.    
  Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program: To stimulate                     
  technological innovation; to increase private sector commercialization of           
  innovations derived from Federal research and development; to increase small        
  business participation in Federal research and development; and to foster and       
  encourage participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small            
  business concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological          
  innovation. Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program: To stimulate         
  and foster scientific and technological innovation through cooperative research     
  development carried out between small business concerns and research                
  institutions; to foster technology transfer between small business concerns and     
  research institutions; to increase private sector commercialization of innovations  
  derived from Federal research and development; and to foster and encourage          
  participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small business             
  concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological                   
  innovation.                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants may support salaries, equipment, supplies, travel, and patient               
  hospitalization as required to perform the research effort. Restrictions or         
  limitations are imposed against the use of funds for entertainment, foreign travel, 
  general-purpose equipment, alterations and renovations, and other items not         
  regularly required for the performance of research. National Research Service       
  Awards (NRSAs) are made directly to individuals for research training. Grants       
  may be made to institutions to enable them to make NRSAs to individuals             
  selected by them. Certain service and payback provisions apply to individuals       
  upon termination of the award. SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-months'      
  duration) are to establish the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed        
  research effort that may lead to a commercial product or process. Phase II grants   
  are for the continuation of the research initiated in Phase I and which are likely  
  to result in commercial products or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible   
  to apply for Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration)    
  are to determine the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of 
  the proposed cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application.      
  These awards are made to small businesses working in collaboration with             
  academic institutions. Phase II funding is based on results of research initiated   
  in Phase I and scientific and technical merit and commercial potential on Phase     
  II application. While the intent of the SBIR/STTR programs is                       
  commercialization (Phase III), no SBIR/STTR funds are allowed for                   
  commercialization activities such as patents; market and sales; market research;    
  business development/product development/market plans; legal fees, travel and       
  other costs including labor relating to license agreements and partnerships.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
                                                                                 11-08
  Any nonprofit organization engaged in biomedical research and institutions (or
  companies) organized for profit may apply for grants, with the exception of
  NRSAs. An individual may apply for a NRSA or, in some cases, may qualify for
  a research grant if adequate facilities in which to perform the research are
  available. SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small businesses
  (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit, or owned by
  another small business that itself is independently owned and operated for profit,
  are not dominant in the field in which research is proposed, and have no more
  than 500 employees including affiliates). Primary employment (more than one-
  half time) of the principal investigator must be with the small business at the
  time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I
  and Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To
  be eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit
  and program relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory
  council. SBIR projects must be performed at least 67% by the applicant small
  business in Phase I and at least 50% of the project in Phase II. STTR grants can
  be awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in
  which research is proposed and have no more that 500 employees which
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development.
  At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business
  concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and
  Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be
  eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit
  and program relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory
  council.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company or institution engaged in
  biomedical research. Only domestic for-profit small business firms may apply
  for SBIR and STTR programs.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants for individual National Research Service Awards must be citizens of
  the United States or have been admitted for permanent residency; must hold a
  doctoral degree (M.D., Ph.D, D.D.S., D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., D.Eng., or
  equivalent domestic or foreign degree); and must designate a desire for training
  in one of the health or health-related areas specified by the National Institutes of
  Health. Each applicant must be sponsored by an accredited public or private
  nonprofit institution engaged in such training. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments. For-
  profit organizations' costs are determined in accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the
  Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other grantees, costs will be determined in
  accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and
  STTR grants, applicant organization (small business concern) must present a
  research plan that has potential for commercialization and furnish evidence that
  scientific competence, experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds
  requested are appropriate to carry out the plan. SBIR and STTR applicants must
  use the SF424 Research and Related (R&R) application for electronic
  submission through Grants.gov. Electronic submission of SNAP Progress
  Reports (eSNAP) apply for non-competing continuations (e.g., second year of
  Phase II).
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Research grant applications are submitted on designated forms to the Center for
  Scientific Review, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. Forms
  for individual NRSA award applications may be obtained from and submitted
  to: Office of Research Manpower, Center for Scientific Review, National
  Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. For some special grant programs,
  applicants may be advised to submit directly to the Review Branch, Division of
  Extramural Affairs, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Bethesda, MD
  20892. The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45
  CFR, Part 92 for State and local governments, must be used for this program.
  SBIR and STTR Grant Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be
  obtained electronically through the NIH's "Small Business Funding
  Opportunities" home page at www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World
  Wide Web. The Solicitation includes submission procedures, review
  considerations, and links to grant application or contract proposal forms. SBIR
  and STTR grant applications must be submitted electronically using the SF424
  Research and Related (R&R) forms to Grants.gov. For questions about
  submission please call the GRANTSINFO office at Phone: (301) 435-0714 or
  send an E-mail: grantsinfo@nih.gov.
Award Procedure:
  All accepted applications are evaluated by an appropriate initial review group
  (study section). All grant applications receive a final secondary review by the
  National Heart, Lung, and Blood Advisory Council. Fellowship applications
  have a secondary review by the staff of the Institute. Staff informs applicants of
  the results of the review. If support is contemplated, staff initiates preparations
  of awards for grants. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for
  scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer review panel and
  by a national advisory council or board. All applications receiving a priority
                                                                                   1505
