  score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on the basis of scientific     
  and technical merit and commercial potential of the proposed research, program       
  relevance, and program balance among the areas of research. Eligibilility            
  criteria must be verified prior to the competing award as stated in the              
  SBIR/STTR Funding Opportunity Announcement and annual OMNIBUS                        
  SOLICITIATION.                                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                             
  New Research Grants: February 1, June 1, and October 1 (or as specified in           
  Request for Applications (RFA) announcements). Renewals and Supplementals:           
  March 1, July 1, and November 1. Institutional NRSAs: January 25 (new,               
  resubmission, amended, and renewal applications) and September 25                    
  (resubmission and amended applications). Individual NRSA: April 8, August 8,         
  and December 8. SBIR and STTR Grants: April 1, August 1, and December 1.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Regular Grants: From 7 to 9 months. SBIR/STTR Grants: About 7-1/2 months.            
Appeals:                                                                               
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects   
  of the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the          
  Institute.                                                                           
Renewals:                                                                              
  Renewals require application and review in the same manner as new                    
  applications.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The Advisory Council may recommend funding for periods ranging from 1 to 5           
  years. Funding commitments are made annually. SBIR: Normally, Phase I                
  awards are for 6 months; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years. STTR:            
  Normally, Phase I awards are for 1 year; normally, Phase II awards are for 2         
  years.                                                                               
Reports:                                                                               
  Annual reports from grantees are required on progress and expenditures. Final        
  reports are required within 120 days of termination. Reports are required after      
  termination of National Research Service Awards to ascertain compliance with         
  the service and payback provisions.                                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of              
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," non-Federal entities        
  that expend $500,000 or more in its fiscal year in Federal awards shall have a       
  single or program-specific audit conducted for that year in accordance with the      
  provisions of this circular. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a    
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,     
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative           
  agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal            
  government officials. Per the regulations, a for-profit (commercial) organization    
  is subject to audit requirements for a non-Federal audit if, during its fiscal year, 
  it expended $500,000 or more under HHS awards and at least one award is a            
  HHS grant. For-profit organizations have two options regarding the type of audit     
  that will satisfy the audit requirements either: 1. a financial related audit (as    
  defined in the Government Auditing Standards, GPO Stock #020-000-00-265-4,           
  http://www.gao.gov/govaud/ybk01.htm) of the HHS awards in accordance with            
  Government Auditing Standards, or 2. an audit that meets the requirements            
  contained in OMB Circular No. A-133                                                  
  (http://www.whitehouse.gov/OMB/circulars/a133/a133.html).                            
Records:                                                                               
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the       
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report     
  period.                                                                              
Account Identification:                                                                
  75-0872-0-1-552.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $409,262,576; FY 08 est $409,262,576; and FY 09 est                   
  $409,262,576.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $97,396 to $999,972; $427,867. Small Business Innovation Research/Small              
  Business Technology Awards: Phase I - $100,000; Phase II - up to $750,000.           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In fiscal year 2007, 795 research grants and 68 National Research Service            
  Awards were made. The estimates for fiscal year 2008 are 795 research grants         
  and 68 National Research Service Awards. The estimates for fiscal year 2009 are      
  795 research grants and 68 National Research Service Awards. In fiscal year          
  2007, for new and competing renewal awards 1055 grant applications were              
  received, and of these, 211 were awarded; 84 National Research Service Award         
  applications were received and of these 19 were awarded. Small Business              
  Innovation Research/Technology Tranfer Awards: In fiscal year 2007, 20 Phase I       
  and 10 Phase II awards were made.                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  42 CFR 52; 42 CFR 66; 45 CFR 74; "NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts, and            
  Supplements"; Grants will be available under the authority of and administered       
  in accordance with the PHS Grants Policy Statement and Federal regulations at        


1506                                                                             11-08

  42 CFR 52 and 42 U.S.C 241; Omnibus Solicitation of the Public Health
  Service for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant and Cooperative
  Agreement Applications. Omnibus Solicitation of the National Institutes of
  Health for Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Grant Applications.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contacts: Dr. Susan Shurin, Acting Director, Division of Blood
  Diseases and Resources, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
  Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human
  Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 435-0080. Small Business
  Innovation Research Program: Ms. Susan Pucie, Senior Program Analyst,
  Division of Blood Diseases and Resources, National Heart, Lung, and Blood
  Institute, National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of
  Health and Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 435-0079.
  Grants Management Contact: Ms. Suzanne White, Grants Management Officer,
  Grants Operations Branch, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National
  Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human
  Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 435-0144. Use the same
  numbers for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nhlbi.nih.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.837, Cardiovascular Diseases Research; 93.838, Lung Diseases Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) An individual research grant using a novel systems biology approach to
  study the genetic basis of stroke risk in sickle cell disease. The investigators
  validated in a clinical setting a new type of statistical analysis method for
  genetic association studies based on Bayesian networks. This new method
  studying the clinical impact of networks of specific gene variants has yielded a
  model that may accurately predict stroke in other patient populations. (2) A
  multi-project grant to study cell adhesion mechanisms in vascular disease and
  thrombosis. The program is designed to advance understanding of molecular
  mechanisms of vascular disease and to promote development of new diagnostic,
  therapeutic, and preventive strategies through the collaborative efforts of
  scientists focused on the unifying theme of cell adhesion. Studies will span
  analysis of biochemistry, fine structure at atomic level detail, ex-vivo studies to
  analyze the effects of blood flow on adhesion and signaling, hematopoiesis, and
  analysis of genetically modified mice. (3) A grant for a Specialized Center of
  Clinically Oriented Research (SCCOR) in Transfusion Medicine and Biology.
  The focus is to increase our understanding of the biologic and immunologic
  aspects of transfusion medicine. The studies in this multi-project grant address
  the management of the blood supply, immunologic responses to blood
  components or marrow derived cells, and cellular therapy. 4) A Comprehensive
  Sickle Cell Center Grant that integrates clinical, translational and basic research,
  thereby fostering multidisciplinary collaborations directed toward the goal of
  finding effective therapy and ultimately a cure for sickle cell disease. (5) An
  Individual National Research Service Award to use in utero gene delivery to
  target highly proliferative hematopoietic stem cells in the fetal liver of a murine
  model of beta thalassemia. The fellow will train under the guidance of an
  accomplished mentor and will develop research skills in the important area of in
  utero gene transfer strategies for transduction of hematopoiet stem cells and
  treatment of genetic disorders of the hematopoietic system that cause ongoing
  morbidity and mortality in children. (6) A Small Business Innovative Research
  Grant to develop a rapid, accurate, cost-effective screening test to detect a broad
  array of bacterial contaminants in stored human red blood cells. The successful
  development of this technology will improve the availability and safety of the
  human blood supply and will have broad potential for bacterial detection
  applications in human diagnostic, food testing, environmental testing and other
  research uses.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.
  The following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical
  merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical
  merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological innovation
  of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research for
  commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7)
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and
