  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;     
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance  
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for            
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the      
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research      
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the     
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)            
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.             
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.846 ARTHRITIS, MUSCULOSKELETAL AND SKIN                                            
DISEASES RESEARCH                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                             
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301, 437, and 487, as amended, Public           
  Laws 78-410 and 99-158, 42 U.S.C. 241, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 285d-2; 42             
  U.S.C. 288; Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of              
  1992, Public Law 102-564.                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To support research relevant to arthritis, musculoskeletal and skin diseases, the   
  National Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS)       
  supports research training and basic and clinical investigations including          
  epidemiology and clinical trials in the areas of skin and rheumatic diseases and    
  musculoskeletal diseases. The Division of Skin and Rheumatic Diseases               
  promotes and supports basic, epidemiological, and clinical studies of skin and      
  rheumatic and related diseases. Studies range from determining the underlying       
  basis and mechanisms of disease (including large genetic studies), to               
  translational and clinical research aimed at the diagnosis, treatment, prediction,  
  and/or prevention of disease. The skin program supports research in normal and      
  diseased skin including keratinocyte biology and wound healing, and disorders       
  such as psoriasis, atopic dermatitis and other chronic inflammatory skin            
  disorders; the vesiculobullous diseases such as pemphigus, bullous pemphigoid,      
  and epidermolysis bullosa; acne, alopecia areata, vitiligo, and skin neoplasia.     
  The rheumatic disease program supports research in the systemic autoimmune          
  diseases and arthritides, including systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE), systemic    
  scleroderma, autoimmune myositis, rheumatoid arthritis, juvenile idiopathic         
  arthritis, spondyloarthropathies, vasculitis, gout, Sjogren's syndrome, and         
  fibromyalgia syndrome. In addition, the Division supports studies on the            
  extracellular matrix, including research on Marfan syndrome, keloid formation,      
  and pseudoxanthoma elasticum. The Division also supports biopyschosocial            
  research related to rheumatic, musculoskeletal, or skin diseases. Topics include    
  behavioral interventions, pain mechanisms, neuroendocrine and neuroimmune           
  mechanisms, behavioral and social research, and epidemiology. The Division of       
  Musculoskeletal Diseases supports studies of the skeleton and associated            
  connective tissues. Broad areas of interest include skeletal development,           
  metabolism, mechanical properties, and responses to injury. Among these             
  diseases and skeletal disorders are osteoporosis; osteogenesis imperfecta; Paget's  
  disease of bone; vitamin D refractory diseases; and rickets and                     
  osteochondrodysplasias. Other areas of interest include treatment of acute and      
  chronic injuries, including carpal tunnel syndrome, repetitive stress injury, low   
  back pain and clinical and epidemiological studies of osteoarthritis. The           
  Division supports development of new technologies with the potential to             
  improve treatment of skeletal disorders and facilitate the repair of trauma in the  
  normal skeleton. These include drugs and nutritional interventions, joint           
  replacement, bone and cartilage transplantation, biomarkers and gene therapy. In    
  addition, bioengineering, sports medicine and musculoskeletal fitness are areas     
  of special research emphasis. This Division also encourages and supports            
  research on skeletal muscle, its diseases and disorders, and its central role in    
  human physiology and exercise. Topics include the molecular structure of            
  muscle and the molecular mechanisms that produce force and motion. Muscle           
  biophysics, cell biology, muscle biology, muscle disorders and therapies,           
  musculoskeletal development, tissue reengineering, and regenerative medicine        
  are encompassed in this area as well. The Division also supports research into      
  the biology of cartilage, tendons, ligaments, mensisci, and interveterbral discs,   
  including pre-clinical studies on injury and disease conditions affecting these     
  tissues. NIAMS participates in the Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)        
  and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) programs. The SBIR program            
  is intended to increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived     
  from Federal research and development; to increase small business participation     
  in Federal research and development; and to foster and encourage participation      
  ofsociallyandeconomicallydisadvantagedsmallbusiness concerns and women-             
  owned small business concerns in technological innovation. The STTR program         
  is intended to stimulate and foster scientific and technological innovation         
  through cooperative research and development carried out between small              
  business concerns and research institutions; to foster technology transfer          
  between small business concerns and research institutions; to increase private      
                                                                                      


                                                                                 11-08
  sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in technological innovation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Research Grants provide funds for salaries, equipment, supplies, travel, and
  other expenses associated with scientific investigation relevant to program
  objectives. Individual National Research Service Awards (NRSAs) are made to
  individuals for research training in specified biomedical shortage areas. In
  addition, grants may be made to institutions to enable them to make NRSAs to
  individuals selected by them. Each individual who receives a NRSA is obligated
  upon termination of the award to comply with certain service and payback
  provisions. Small Business Innovation Research Phase I grants (of
  approximately 6-months' duration) are to establish the technical merit and
  feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a commercial product or
  process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the research initiated in Phase
  I that are likely to result in commercial products or processes. Only Phase I
  awardees are eligible to receive Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants (normally
  of 1-year duration) are to determine the scientific, technical, and commercial
  merit and feasibility of the proposed cooperative effort that has potential for
  commercial application. Phase II funding is based on results of research initiated
  in Phase I and scientific and technical merit and commercial potential on Phase
  II application.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Research Grants: Individuals and public and private institutions, both nonprofit
  and for-profit, who propose to establish, expand, and improve research activities
  in health sciences and related fields. National Research Service Awards:
  Individuals must be nominated and sponsored by a public or private, for-profit
  or nonprofit institution having staff and facilities appropriate to the proposed
  research training program. All awardees must be citizens or have been admitted
  to the United States for permanent residence. To be eligible, predoctoral
  awardees must have completed the baccalaureate degree and postdoctoral
  awardees must have a professional or scientific degree (M.D., Ph.D., D.D.S.,
  D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., D. Eng., or equivalent domestic or foreign degree).
  Nonprofit domestic organizations may apply for the Institutional National
  Research Service grant. Small Business Innovation Research grants can be
  awarded only to domestic small businesses (entities that are independently
  owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in which research is
  proposed, and have no more than 500 employees). Primary employment (more
  than one-half time) of the principal investigator must be with the small business
  at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed project. In both
  Phase I and Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. or its
  possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for
  scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific review group and a
  national advisory council. STTR grants can be awarded only to domestic small
  business concerns (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit,
  are not dominant in the field in which research is proposed and have no more
  that 500 employees) which "partner" with a research institution in cooperative
  research and development. At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed
  by the small business concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution.
  In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its
  possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for
  scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific review group and a
  national advisory council.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Research Grants: Although no degree of education is either specified or
  required, nearly all successful applicants have doctoral degrees in one of the
  sciences or professions. National Research Service Awards: Predoctoral
  awardees must have completed the baccalaureate degree and postdoctoral
  awardees must have a professional or scientific degree.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Requirements are specified in the application form. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments. For-
  profit organizations' costs are determined in accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the
  Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other grantees, costs will be determined in
  accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. For SBIR and
  STTR grants, applicant organization (small business concern) must present in a
  research plan an idea that has potential for commercialization and furnish
  evidence that scientific competence, experimental methods, facilities,
  equipment, and funds requested are appropriate to carry out the plan. Grant
  forms PHS 6246-1 and PHS 6246-2 are used to apply for SBIR Phase I and
  Phase II, respectively. Grant forms PHS 6246-3 and PHS 6246-4 are used to
  apply for STTR Phase I and Phase II, respectively.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Research grants: Applications must be prepared either electronically through
  grants.gov (http://www.grants.gov) using the SF 424 (Research and Research-
                                                                                   1507
