  (1983)). Grants will be available under the authority of and administered in        
  accordance with the NIH Grants Policy Statement,                                    
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/nihgps_2003/; Omnibus Solicitation of the       
  Public Health Service for SBIR Grant and Cooperative Agreement Applications.        
  Omnibus Solicitation of the National Institutes of Health for STTR Grant

  Applications.                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: Project Grants: Dr. Judith Fradkin, Director, Division of          
  Diabetes, Endocrinology, and Metabolic Diseases, National Institute of Diabetes     
  and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 2 Democracy       
  Plaza, Room 689, 6707 Democracy Blvd., Bethesda, MD 20892-2560.                     
  Telephone: (301) 496-7349; Dr. Stephen James, Director, Division of Digestive       
  Diseases and Nutrition, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney     
  Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 2 Democracy Plaza, Room 675, 6707          
  Democracy Blvd., Telephone: (301) 594-7680; Dr. Robert Star, Director,              
  Division of Kidney, Urologic and Hematologic Diseases, National Institute of        
  Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 2        
  Democracy Plaza, Room 625, 6707 Democracy Blvd., Bethesda, MD 20892-                
  2560. Telephone: (301) 594-7717. Small Business Innovation Research Grants          
  Contact: Mrs. Helen Ling, Senior Grants Management Specialist, Grants               
  Management Branch, Division of Extramural Activities, National Institute of         
  Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 2        
  Democracy Plaza, Room 732, 6707 Democracy Blvd., Bethesda, MD 20892.                
  Telephone: (301) 594-8857. Grants Management Contact: Mr. Robert Pike,              
  Chief Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Division of              
  Extramural Activities, National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney      
  Diseases, National Institutes of Health, 2 Democracy Plaza, Room 731, 6707          
  Democracy Blvd., Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 594-8854. Use the             
  same numbers for FTS.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www2.niddk.nih.gov                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  In October 2008, the National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney        
  Diseases consolidated all of its extramural research programs under one CFDA        
  number, 93.847: Diabetes, Digestive, And Kidney Diseases Extramural                 
  Research, for management reasons. The former program numbers were 93.847:           
  Diabetes, Endocrinology and Metabolism Research; 93.848: Digestive Diseases         
  and Nutrition Research, and 93.849: Kidney Diseases, Urology and Hematology         
  Research.                                                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  (a) For diabetes, endocrine, and metabolic diseases projects: Genetic Studies of    
  Type 2 Diabetes; Regulators of Insulin Secretion and Action; Mode of Action of      
  Steroid Hormones; Autoimmune Basis of Type 1 Diabetes; and Activators of            
  Mutant Cystic Fibrosis Transmembrane Regulator ; SBIR grant: Implantable            
  Glucose Sensor (b) For digestive diseases and nutrition projects:                   
  Pathogenesis of Gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD). Genetics of                 
  inflammatory bowel disease. Inflammation in IBD. Prevention of weight gain.         
  Treatment of non-alcoholic steatohepatitis (NASH). Long-term treatment of           
  hepatitis C (c) For kidney, urologic, and hematologic diseases projects:            
  Functional Structure of Renal Tubule; Pathogenesis of Experimental                  
  Glomenolonephritis; Pathology of Recovery from Acute Renal Failure; Urinary         
  Stone Prevention; and In vitro Studies of Hematopoietic Regulation; SBIR grant:     
  Laser Fragmentation of Urinary Calculi                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The          
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives; 
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the         
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the         
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;   
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed    
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.      
  The following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical     
  merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical      
  merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal    
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological innovation   
  of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research for            
  commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the    
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7)        
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for       
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or         
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications       
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the     
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and    
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;     
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance  
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for            
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the



                                                                                 11-08
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.
93.853 EXTRAMURAL RESEARCH PROGRAMS IN THE
NEUROSCIENCES AND NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301, 405,408, 457, 458, 459, and 487,
  Public Law 78-410, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 241; 42 U.S.C. 284; 42 U.S.C. 284c;
  42 U.S.C. 285j; 42 U.S.C. 285j-7; 42 U.S.C. 285L-2; Small Business Research
  and Development Enhancement Act of 1992, Public Law 102-564.
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To support extramural research within the National Institute of Neurological
  Disorders and Stroke (NINDS) including: neurological science basic research
  that explores the fundamental structure and function of the brain and the nervous
  system; research to understand the causes and origins of pathological conditions
  of the nervous system with the goal of prevention of these disorders; research on
  the natural course of neurological disorders; research on mechanisms associated
  with stroke and other cerebrovascular disorders, effects of trauma to the nervous
  system, neuroplasticity and regeneration, and tumors of neural and sensory
  tissues; improved methods of disease prevention; new methods of diagnosis and
  treatment; clinical trials; drug development; development of neural prostheses
  for stroke and paraplegia; epidemiological research; and research training in the
  clinical neurosciences. Programmatic areas within this Institute support research
  on such topics as stroke; traumatic injury to the brain, spinal cord and peripheral
  nervous system; neurodegenerative disorders, including Parkinson's disease and
  Alzheimer's disease; brain tumors; development of artificial prosthetic devices to
  restore function to the damaged nervous system; convulsive disorders, including
  epilepsy; infectious disorders of the brain and nervous system, including AIDS;
  immune disorders of the brain and nervous system, including multiple sclerosis;
  disorders related to sleep; and pain. Programmatic areas also include
  neurodevelopment, repair and plasticity, channels synapses and circuits,
  neurogenetics, neurodegeneration, neural environment, and systems and
  cognitive neuroscience. Extramural research is also supported by the Office of
  Minority Health and Research. (2) To expand and improve the Small Business
  Innovation Research (SBIR) program; to increase private sector
  commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; to increase small business participation in Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and
  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small
  business concerns in technological innovation. (3) To utilize the Small Business
  Technology Transfer (STTR) program; to stimulate and foster scientific and
  technological innovation through cooperative research and development carried
  out between small business concerns and research institutions; to foster
  technology transfer between small business concerns and research institutions; to
  increase private sector commercialization of innovations derived from Federal
  research and development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially
  and economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned
  small business concerns in technological innovation. The NINDS also
  participates in the Academic Research Enhancement Award (AREA) Program,
  which is intended to provide research support to institutions currently having
  little National Institutes of Health (NIH) support.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Research grants may be used to provide salaries, equipment, supplies, travel and
  other expenses for research. The grantee institution is obliged to expend grant
  funds prudently for the purposes stated in the application and award document.
  National Research Service Awards (NRSAs) are made directly to individuals for
  research training in specified biomedical shortage areas, or to institutions, to
  enable them to make NRSAs to individuals selected by them. Each individual
  who receives a NRSA is obligated upon termination of the award to comply with
  service and payback provisions. Career Development Awards such as the
  Independent Scientist Awards provide support for newly independent scientists
  with health related degrees who can demonstrate the need for a period of
  intensive research focus as a means of enhancing their research careers.
  Mentored Clinical Research Scientist Development Awards provide support for
  clinically trained health professionals who need an additional period of
  sponsored research experience as a way to gain expertise in a research area new
  to the candidate or in an area that would demonstrably enhance the candidate's
  scientific career. The Mentored Research Scientist Development Award are of
  three types: Re-Entry into the Neurological Sciences (RENS) which are made to
  women and men who have been out of neuroscience research for at least 3 years
  to give them an opportunity to re-establish their skills as independent
                                                                                  1511
