  neuroscientists, the Career Development Award to promote diversity in                  
  neuroscience research support, an intensive, supervised research career                
  development experience for underrepresented career neuroscientists, and                
  Mentored Research Scientist Development Awards in Translational Research to            
  support new investigators to build a program of translational research in              
  neurological disorders. The Mentored Patient-Oriented Research Career                  
  Development Award provide support for a period of supervised study and                 
  research for clinically trained professionals who have the potential to develop        
  into productive clinical investigators. The Mid-career Investigator Award in           
  Patient-Oriented Research provide support for clinicians to allow them protected       
  time to devote to patient-oriented research and to act as mentors for beginning        
  clinical investigators. The Collaborative Neurological Sciences Award is to            
  develop and promote competitive neurological science research programs at              
  predominantly minority institutions through collaborations with grantees from          
  research intensive institutions who have NIH grant support to conduct                  
  neurological science research. SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-months'         
  duration) are to establish the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed           
  research effort that may lead to a commercial product or process. Phase II grants      
  are for the continuation of the research efforts initiated in Phase I that are likely  
  to result in commercial products or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible      
  to receive Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1-year duration)         
  are to determine the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of    
  proposed cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase       
  II funding is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and     
  technical merit and commercial potential of Phase II application. Grant funds          
  may be expended only for the purpose stated in the application and award               
  document. The NINDS participates in the NIH SBIR/STTR "fast track"                     
  initiative.                                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  Research Grants: Any public, private, nonprofit, or for-profit institution is          
  eligible to apply. For-profit institutions are not eligible for Institutional National 
  Research Service Awards but are eligible for Individual NRSAs. All proposals           
  are reviewed for scientific merit, for evaluation of the qualifications of the         
  investigators, for adequacy of the research environment, and for significance of       
  the problem. Approved proposals compete for available funds. All Career                
  Development Program awardees, with the exception of awardees of the Pathway            
  to Independence Award, must be citizens or have been admitted to the United            
  States for permanent residence. Candidates must be nominated for the program           
  by a nonfederal public or private nonprofit institution located in the United          
  States, its possessions or territories. Awardees for RENS must have been               
  accepted by a sponsoring institution, had previous training and experience in          
  neurological science, an interruption in their careers for a period of at least three  
  years and not more than 8 years, and be citizens or non-citizen nationals of the       
  United States. Awardees for the Collaborative Neurological Sciences Award              
  must be from a predominantly minority institution and must have a doctoral             
  degree in a basic or clinical science area. To be eligible, postdoctoral NRSA          
  trainees or fellows must have a professional or scientific degree (M.D., Ph.D.,        
  D.D.S., D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., D. Eng., or equivalent domestic or foreign degree).       
  SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small businesses (entities that are        
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in          
  which research is proposed, and have no more than 500 employees). Primary              
  employment (more than one-half time) of the principal investigator must be with        
  the small business at the time of award and during the conduct of the proposed         
  project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the entire research must be performed in        
  the United States. To be eligible for funding, a grant application must be             
  approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific review group       
  and a national advisory council. STTR grants can be awarded only to domestic           
  small business concerns (entities that are independently owned and operated for        
  profit, are not dominant in the field in which research is proposed and have no        
  more than 500 employees) which "partner" with a research institution in                
  cooperative research and development. At least 40 percent of the project is to be      
  performed by the small business concern and at least 30 percent by the research        
  institution. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must be performed in the       
  U.S. and its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant application must be      
  approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific review group       
  and a national advisory council.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  Health professionals, graduate students, health professional students, scientists,     
  and researchers.                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  Research grants are awarded to an institution in the name of an individual             
  investigator. Persons qualified to carry out research related to the extramural        
  programs described above may apply for funds to support their investigations.          
  Mentored Career Program training must be conducted under the direction of a            
  competent sponsor. National Research Service Awards: Individual NRSA                   
  Fellowships for postdoctoral training: the candidate's academic record, research       
  experience, citizenship, institutional sponsorship, and the proposed area and          
  plan of training must be included in the application. Institutional Training           
  Grants for predoctoral and postdoctoral training: The applicant institution must       
                                                                                         


1512                                                                               11-08

  show the objectives, methodology and resources for the research training
  program; the qualifications and experience of directing staff; the criteria to be
  used in selecting individuals for stipend support; and a detailed budget and
  justification for the amount of grant funds requested. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments. For-
  profit organizations' costs are determined in accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the
  Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other grantees, costs will be determined in
  accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74 and 92, Subpart Q. For
  SBIR and STTR grants, the applicant organization (small business concern)
  must present in a research plan an idea that has potential for commercialization
  and furnish evidence that scientific competence, experimental methods,
  facilities, equipment, and funds requested are appropriate to carry out the plan.
  Grant forms PHS 6246-1 and PHS 6246-2 are used to apply for SBIR Phase I
  and Phase II, respectively. Grant forms PHS 6246-3 and PHS 6246-4 are used to
  apply for STTR Phase I and Phase II, respectively.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Research grant applications exceeding $500,000 direct costs in any yearly
  budget period will not be accepted unless the NINDS has agreed to accept the
  application prior to submission (see http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-
  files/NOT-OD-02-004.html). This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  NIH is in the process of transitioning to the SF424 family of forms and
  electronic submission through Grants.govby research program or funding
  mechanism. See http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt/ for a list of grant
  mechanisms that have already transitioned to electronic submission. For
  applications to be submitted electronically, see
  http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt/. The change from paper submission to
  electronic applications for grant programs currently targeted to transition after
  May 2007, including Career Development (K), Fellowship (F), Training &
  Development (T&D) and complex mechanisms (P, U) will be delayed. See
  http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/forms.htm to determine the appropriate paper
  application package (PHS 398 or PHS 416) to be used.
Award Procedure:
  Research Grant and Training Program applications are reviewed initially by
  technical panels, composed of scientific authorities, and by the National
  Advisory Neurological Disorders and Stroke Council composed of 18 leaders in
  medical science, education, and public affairs. Approved applications will
  compete on a merit basis for available funds. Formal award notices are
  transmitted to the grantee or awardee. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are
  evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer
  review panel and by a national advisory council or board. All applications
  receiving a priority score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on
  the basis of scientific and technical merit and commercial potential of the
  proposed research, program relevance, and program balance among the areas of
  research.
Deadlines:
  All new research grant and career program applications, plus all (new,
  competing continuation, supplemental or revised) program project and center
  grant applications deadline dates can be found at
  http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/funding/submissionschedule.htm.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Research grants: Approximately 6 to 9 months. Career program: From 6 to 9
  months. SBIR/STTR applications: About 7-1/2 months. Institutional Training
  Grants: From 6 to 12 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects
  of the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute, and subsequently, the P.I. and applicant institution may appeal to the
  NINDS appeals officer. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal
  procedures is available on the NIH home page
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not97-232.html.
Renewals:
  By application and review in same manner as new applications. Research
  Career Awards may not be renewed.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Research grant awards are made for a 12-month period with recommendation of
  up to 4 years of additional support. Career Program awards provide support for
  3 to 5 years. Training Program awards are usually for a 12-month period with
  recommendation of additional support of up to a total of 5 years for predoctoral
  training and no more than 3 years for postdoctoral training. SBIR: Normally,
  Phase I awards are for 6 months; normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years.
  STTR: Normally, Phase I awards are for 1 year; normally, Phase II awards are
  for 2 years.
Reports:
  Research Grants: Annual and final progress reports, including a description of
  results, positive and negative, and a list of any publications. Career Program:
  Awardee submits annual progress report. Termination notice, PHS 416-7, must
