Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Research grant project periods average 4 years; they may not be extended          
  beyond 7 years. (Project periods are generally composed of 1-year budget          
  periods.) SBIR Normally, Phase I awards are for 6 months; normally, Phase II      
  awards are for 2 years. STTR: Normally, Phase I awards are for 1 year; normally,  
  Phase II awards are for 2 years.                                                  
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual progress reports and financial status reports are required.                
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are         
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government             
  officials.                                                                        
Records:                                                                            
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the    
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report  
  period.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                             
  75-0885-0-1-552.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $626,977,000; FY 08 est $628,084,000; and FY 09 est                
  $630,219,000. (SBIR) FY 07 $11,836,000; FY 08 est $12,458,000; and FY 09          
  est $12,458,000. (STTR) FY 07 $415,000; FY 08 est $437,000; and FY 09 est         
  $437,000.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  (Grants) $3,000 to $4,457,456; $404,762. (NRSAs) $7,000 to $1,571,338;            
  $208,799. SBIR Average Phase I awards are for approximately $263,507; Phase       
  II awards may be made for amounts up to $700,827 (total for funding period).      
  (STTR) average Phase I awards are for approximately $415,035; Phase II awards     
  may be made for amounts up to $ - (total for the funding period).                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In fiscal year 2006, a total of 1,526 grant awards were made to establish, expand,
  and promote research and research training in basic immunobiology and

  immunochemistry; hypersensitivity and inflammation; asthma and allergic

  diseases; the immune system and its disorders; immunopathology,                   
  transplantation biology immunogenetics and lymphocyte biology; and the            
  support of research centers for the study of asthma and allergic diseases,

  immunodermatology, and immunological diseases. A total of 15 SBIR Phase I,        
                                                                                    
  9 SBIR Phase II, 4 STTR Phase I, and 1 Phase II Awards were made in fiscal

                                                                                    
  year 2006. An estimated 1,659 and 1,684 total awards will be made in fiscal

                                                                                    
  years 2007 and 2008 respectively.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                    
  Grants will be available under the authority of and administered in accordance

                                                                                    
  with the PHS Grants Policy Statement and Federal regulations at 42 CFR 52 and

                                                                                    
  42 U.S.C. 241; Omnibus Solicitation of the Public Health Service for Small

                                                                                    
  Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant and Cooperative Agreement

                                                                                    
  Applications. Omnibus Solicitation of the National Institutes of Health for Small

                                                                                    
  Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Grant Applications.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

  Program Contact: Dr. John J. McGowan, Director, Division of Extramural            
  Activities, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, National       
  Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human       
  Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 496-7291. Grants                   
  Management Contact: Mary Kirker, Grants Management Officer, Grants                
  Management Branch, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,         
  National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and    
  Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 496-7075. Use the            
  same numbers for FTS.                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.niaid.nih.gov.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  93.856, Microbiology and Infectious Diseases Research.                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  (1) Immunobiology and immunochemistry studies: (a) investigate the biology        
  and chemistry of the immune system and its products; and (b) projects in          
  lymphocyte biology supporting multi-disciplinary efforts in immunobiology, cell   
  biology, genetics, biochemistry and immunochemistry with the goal of              
  developing the capability to intervene and manipulate the immune system in        
  health and disease. Particular focus is given to Acquired Immune Deficiency       
  Syndrome. (2) Research in genetics and transplantation biology: (a)               
  encompasses a broad approach to clarify how genes and gene products affect the    


                                                                               11-08
  immune response system, the goal being to understand the genetic and
  immunologic mechanisms involved in organ transplantation and in resistance or
  susceptibility to disease. (3) Studies in asthma and allergic diseases: (a) involve
  the etiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, prevention, and treatment of both naturally
  occurring and acquired allergic diseases; and (b) asthma studies include both
  primary and predisposing factors. (4) Research in immunologic diseases: (a)
  investigates the underlying mechanisms of disease, as well as applications of
  basic knowledge to the etiology, prevention, and management of immunologic
  disorders; and (b) utilizes either of two disciplinary approaches - clinical
  immunology or immunopathology.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: (1) The
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;
  (2) the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; (3) the
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the
  project; (4) the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources;
  (5) the necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed
  project; and (6) the relevance and importance to announced program objectives.
  The following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical
  merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical
  merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological innovation
  of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research for
  commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (7)
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase II grant applications
  will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The degree to which the
  Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and
  technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the Phase II objectives;
  (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and
  consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or societal importance
  of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for
  commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the
  work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research
  environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.
93.856 MICROBIOLOGY AND INFECTIOUS DISEASES
RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title IV, Section 301, as amended, Public Law 78-
  410; Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992,
  Public Law 102-564.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support research related to Microbiology and Infectious Diseases with the
  broad aim of improving health by controlling disease caused by infectious or
  parasitic agents. Projects range from studies of microbial physiology and
  antigenic structure to collaborative trials of experimental drugs and vaccines.
  Also supported are studies on the mechanisms of resistance to antibiotics as well
  as research dealing with epidemiological observations in hospitalized patients or
  community populations. The objectives of the program are to assist public and
  private nonprofit institutions and individuals to establish, expand and improve
  biomedical research and research training in infectious diseases and related
  areas; to assist public, private and commercial institutions to conduct
  developmental research; to produce and test research materials; and to provide
  research services as required by the agency for programs in infectious diseases;
  and to make grants or award contracts to public and nonprofit private entities to
  expand, remodel, renovate, or alter existing research facilities or construct new
  facilities. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) program expands and
  improves private sector participation in biomedical research. The SBIR Program
  intends to increase and facilitate private sector commercialization of innovations
  derived from Federal research and development; to increase small business
  participation in Federal research and development; and to foster and encourage
  participation of socially and economically disadvantaged small business
  concerns and women-owned small business concerns in technological
  innovation. The Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) program
  stimulates and fosters scientific and technological innovation through
  cooperative research and development carried out between small business
  concerns and research institutions; to foster technology transfer between small
  business concerns and research institutions; to increase private sector
  commercialization of innovations derived from Federal research and
  development; and to foster and encourage participation of socially and
                                                                                   1515
