  economically disadvantaged small business concerns and women-owned small             
  business concerns in technological innovation. Research Career Development           
  Awards support the development of scientists during the formative stages of          
  their careers. Individual National Research Service Awards (NRSAs) are made          
  directly to approved applicants for research training in specified biomedical        
  shortage areas. In addition, Institutional National Research Service Awards are      
  made to enable institutions to select and make awards to individuals to receive      
  training under the aegis of their institutional program.                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Beginning with fiscal year 1998, the direct costs awarded in the first year to a     
  research project grant resulting from a competing renewal application will be        
  limited to no more than a 20 percent increase over the direct costs awarded in       
  the last non-competing year of that grant. Research grants provide funds for         
  salaries, equipment, supplies, and travel. They also afford the collateral benefits  
  of enriching the training experience of research workers. Grantees are expected      
  to be judicious in using these funds. The application for a research grant sets      
  forth specific terms and conditions and requires the signatures of the principal     
  investigator and an official authorized to sign for the institution. Scientists and  
  institutions are under an obligation to expend grant funds prudently for the         
  purposes stated in the application and award document. For Research Career           
  Development Awards (RCDAs) the scientists must demonstrate an outstanding            
  research potential for independent research in the sciences related to               
  transplantation, immunology, allergies, and immunological diseases. For              
  National Research Service Awards (NRSAs), each individual who receives               
  NRSA support is obligated upon termination of the award to comply with certain       
  service and payback provisions. SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-             
  months' duration) are to establish the technical merit and feasibility of a          
  proposed research effort that may lead to a commercial product or process.           
  Phase II grants are for the continuation of the research initiated in Phase I and    
  which are likely to result in commercial products or processes. Only Phase I         
  awardees are eligible to receive Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants (normally     
  of 1-year duration) are to determine the scientific, technical, and commercial       
  merit and feasibility of proposed cooperative effort that has potential for          
  commercial application. Phase II funding is based on results of research initiated   
  in Phase I and scientific and technical merit and commercial potential of the        
  Phase II application.                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Universities, colleges, hospitals, laboratories and other public or private          
  nonprofit domestic institutions, including State and local units of government.      
  Individuals are eligible to make application for grant support of research by a      
  named principal investigator or a research career development candidate. For-        
  profit organizations are also eligible, with the exception of NRSA. Individual       
  NRSA awardees must be nominated and sponsored by a public or nonprofit               
  private institution having staff and facilities appropriate to the proposed research 
  training program. All NRSA awardees must be citizens or have been admitted to        
  the United States for permanent residence. To be eligible, predoctoral               
  candidates must have completed the baccalaureate degree and postdoctoral             
  candidates must have a professional or scientific degree (M.D., Ph.D., D.D.S.,       
  D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., D.Eng.), or must have an equivalent domestic or foreign         
  degree. SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small businesses (entities       
  that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the        
  field in which research is being proposed and have no more than 500                  
  employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of the principal            
  investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and during the     
  conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must     
  be performed in the U.S. or its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant     
  application must be approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a         
  scientific review group and a national advisory council. STTR grants can be          
  awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are                  
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in        
  which researches proposed and have no more than 500 employees) which                 
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development.       
  At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business          
  concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and     
  Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be      
  eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit      
  and program relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory           
  council.                                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in         
  biomedical research.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Research grant applicants must define the objectives, methodology, and facilities    
  for the program, and must present the program director's competence and              
  scientific interest. For SBIR and STTR grants, applicant organization (small         
  business concern) must present in a research plan an idea that has potential for     
  commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific competence,                   
  experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested are appropriate     


1516                                                                             11-08

  to carry out the plan. Grant forms PHS 6246-1 and PHS 6246-2 are used to
  apply for SBIR Phase I and Phase II, respectively. Grant forms PHS 6246-3 and
  PHS 6246-4 are used to apply for STTR Phase I and Phase II, respectively.
  Applicants for Individual NRSAs must include their academic record, research
  experience, citizenship, institutional sponsorship, and the proposed area and
  plan of training in their applications. The applicant for an Institutional NRSA
  must specify the objectives, methodology, and resources for the research training
  program, the qualifications and experience of directing staff, the criteria to be
  used in selecting individuals for award, and a detailed budget and justification
  for the amount of grant funds requested. Costs will be determined in accordance
  with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local government. For-profit
  organizations' costs are determined in accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the
  Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other grantees, costs will be determined by
  HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Use Form PHS-398 (Rev. May 1995), (PHS- 5161-1 for State and local
  government units) to apply for new, renewal, and supplemental research grants.
  Application forms and information concerning current areas of science being
  supported are available from the Division of Extramural Outreach and
  Information Resources, Office of Extramural Research, National Institutes of
  Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 6207, MSC 7910, Bethesda, MD 20892.
  Telephone: (301) 435- 0714. Fax (301) 480-0525. E-mail: asknih@od.nih.gov.
  The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR,
  Part 92 for State and local governments, must be used for this program. This
  program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local
  governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations.
  Completed applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific Review,
  National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. SBIR and STTR Grant
  Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained electronically
  through the NIH's "Small Business Funding Opportunities" home page at
  www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World Wide Web. A limited
  number of hard copies of these publications are produced. Subject to
  availability, they may be obtained by contacting the NIH support services
  contractor: phone: (301) 206-9385; fax: (301) 206-9722; e- mail:
  a2y@cu.nih.gov. The Solicitations include submission procedures, review
  considerations, and grant application or contract proposal forms. SBIR and
  STTR grant applications should be submitted to the Center for Scientific
  Review, 6701 Rockledge Drive, Room 1040 - MSC 7710, Bethesda, MD 20892-
  7710.
Award Procedure:
  All accepted applications are reviewed for scientific merit by an appropriate
  initial review group and a national advisory council. If the application is
  recommended for approval and a decision to make an award is made, a formal
  award notice will be sent to the applicant or applicant institution. All accepted
  SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an
  appropriate scientific peer review panel and by a national advisory council or
  board. All applications receiving a priority score compete for available
  SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on the basis of scientific and technical merit and
  commercial potential of the proposed research, program relevance, and program
  balance among the areas of research.
Deadlines:
  New Non-AIDS research applications: February 1, June 1, and October 1. For
  Renewal and Supplemental Non-AIDS research grant applications: March 1,
  July 1, and November 1. For all AIDS research grant applications: January 2,
  May 1, September 1. Research Career Development Award programs: February
  1, June 1, October 1. Individual NRSAs: April 5, August 5, and December 5.
  Institutional NRSA: September 10. SBIR/STTR: April 1, August 1, and
  December 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 8 to 9 months. SBIR/STTR: About 7-1/2 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator may question the substantive or procedural aspects of
  the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute. Final decisions on unresolved appeals are made with the advice of the
  National Advisory Allergy and Infectious Diseases Council.
Renewals:
  Renewals of research grant support are by competitive application and review.
  The competitive application may request support for a segmental period of up to
  5 years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Research grant project periods average 4 years; these may not be extended
  beyond 7 years. (Project periods are generally composed of 1-year budget
  periods.) SBIR: Normally, Phase I awards are for 6 months; normally, Phase II
  awards are for 2 years. STTR: Normally, Phase I awards are for 1 year; normally,
  Phase II awards are for 2 years.
Reports:
