  Annual progress reports and financial status reports are required.                  
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are           
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government               
  officials.                                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the      
  day on which the grantee submits the last expenditure report for the report         
  period.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0885-0-1-552.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,970,809,000; FY 08 est $1,974,287,000; and FY 09 est              
  $1,980,998,000. (SBIR) FY 07 $77,591,000; FY 08 est $81,665,000; and FY 09          
  est $81,665,000. (STTR) FY 07 $10,509,000; FY 08 est $11,061,000; and FY            
  09 est $11,061,000.                                                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  (Grants) $2,500 to $46,482,429; $538,472. (NRSAs) $4,202 to $647,660;               
  $141,463. (SBIR) Average Phase I awards are for approximately $280,384.             
  Phase II awards may be made for amounts up to $801,192 (total for funding           
  period). (STTR) Phase I approximately $302,167; Phase II up to $1,085,549           
  (total per funding period).                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  An estimated 4,098 and 4,159 awards will be made in fiscal years 2007 and           
  2008 respectively.                                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  42 CFR 52; 42 CFR 66; 45 CFR 74; 45 CFR 92; (SBIR) Small Business                   
  Administration Policy Directive No. 65 01 (47 FR 52966 et seq. (1982), as           
  amended by Policy Directive No. 65 01.1 (48 FR 38794 et seq. (1983)); Grants        
  will be available under the authority of and administered in accordance with the    
  PHS Grants Policy Statement and Federal regulations at 42 CFR 52 and 42             
  U.S.C. 241; Omnibus Solicitation of the Public Health Service for Small             
  Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant and Cooperative Agreement                 
  Applications. Omnibus Solicitation of the National Institutes of Health for Small   
  Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Grant Applications.                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: Dr. John J. McGowan, Acting Director, Division of                  
  Extramural Activities, National Institutes of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,      
  National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and      
  Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 496-7291. Grants               
  Management Contact: Mary Kirker, Grants Management Officer, Grants                  
  Management Branch, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases,           
  National Institutes of Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and

  Human Services, Bethesda, MD 20892. Telephone: (301) 496-7075. Use the

  same numbers for FTS.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.niaid.nih.gov .

RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.855, Allergy, Immunology and Transplantation Research.                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  (1) Areas of molecular microbiology include: basic research, biochemistry,          
  physiology, and genetics of bacteria and fungi; the synthesis of new                
  antimicrobial agents through organic chemistry; and the discovery of new            
  antibiotics from natural sources. Areas of high relevance are: mechanisms of        
  resistance to microbial agents, either of plasmid or chromosomal origin; and the    
  manipulation of recombinant DNA molecules to better ascertain the molecular         
  basis of pathogenicity and to create new substances of biological and medicinal     
  utility. (2) In the area of bacteriology and mycology, research is conducted on a   
  wide variety of problems involved directly or indirectly with diseases of man       
  caused by bacteria and related agents. Studies to further the knowledge of the      
  organisms involved include: investigations on the biology and physiology of         
  bacteria; their morphology; and on antigenic structure and composition, toxins      
                                                                                      
  and endotoxins. More specific disease-related research includes studies on

                                                                                      
  pathogenesis, immunopathology, host defense mechanisms, diagnostic

                                                                                      
  procedures, therapeutic measures, animal models and the epidemiology of

                                                                                      
  disease. Support is also provided for several specific disease program areas such

                                                                                      
  as sexually transmitted diseases, hospital associated infections, and streptococcal

                                                                                      
  diseases and sequelae. Research is also conducted in the area of

                                                                                      
  mycobacteriology which includes two major diseases: tuberculosis and leprosy.

                                                                                      
  This program also supports studies or bacterial diarrhea, bacterial vaccines, and

                                                                                      
  antimicrobial agents. (3) Studies on viruses and diseases of importance to

                                                                                      
  human health are also supported. Research in general virology encompasses the

                                                                                      
                                                                                11-08 
  biology of viruses and the immunopathogenesis of viral diseases. Studies that
  will significantly advance the knowledge of viral structure, replication, genetics,
  immunology, and interaction between virus and host are encouraged, as well as
  research on mechanisms of viral persistence and latency that underlie problems
  of chronic and recurring viral diseases and studies of viral pathogenesis and
  host's responses to viral infections or to vaccines. Several areas of particular
  interest include: viral hepatitis, influenza, viral diarrhea, antiviral substances,
  viral vaccines and Reye's Syndrome. (4) Research in parasitology includes
  projects designed to obtain a clearer understanding of host-parasite and vector-
  parasite relationships, with the ultimate goal of applying this basic information
  to the control of parasitic diseases through such procedures as
  chemoprophylaxis, chemotherapy, and vector control. Research projects cover
  the entire field of parasitology and medical entomology. Emphasis has been
  directed toward studies on the immunology of parasitic infections and the
  biological regulation of vectors. (5) Studies are also being conducted on
  Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, and include basic, applied, preclinical
  and clinical research on HTLV-III/LAV and related retroviruses for eventual
  control of HTLV-III/LAV infections. This includes research on the
  epidemiological, clinical, immunological, and urological aspects of this disease
  as well as the prevention and treatment of the major opportunistic infections
  associated with AIDS.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessments of: the
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study and its objectives;
  the technical adequacy of the experimental design and approach; the
  competency of the proposed investigator or group to successfully pursue the
  project; the adequacy of the available and proposed facilities and resources; the
  necessity of the budget components requested in relation to the proposed project;
  and the relevance and importance to announced program objectives. The
  following criteria will be used in considering the scientific and technical merit of
  SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and technical merit of
  the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed principal
  investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the technological innovation
  of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the proposed research for
  commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the budget requested; (6) the
  environment; and (7) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the
  proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b)
  protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the environment. Phase
  II grant applications will be reviewed based upon the following criteria: (1) The
  degree to which the Phase I objectives were met and feasibility demonstrated; (2)
  the scientific and technical merit of the proposed approach for achieving the
  Phase II objectives; (3) the qualifications of the proposed principal investigator,
  supporting staff, and consultants; (4) the technological innovation, originality, or
  societal importance of the proposed research; (5) the potential of the proposed
  research for commercial application; (6) the reasonableness of the budget
  requested for the work proposed; (7) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities
  and research environment; and (8) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances
  detailing the proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects,
  and/or (b) protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the
  environment.
93.859 BIOMEDICAL RESEARCH AND RESEARCH
TRAINING
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 301 and Title IV of the Public Health Service Act, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  The National Institute of General Medical Sciences supports basic biomedical
  research that increases understanding of life processes and lays the foundation
  for advances in disease diagnosis, treatment, and prevention. The Institutes
  programs encompass the areas of cell biology, biophysics, genetics,
  developmental biology, pharmacology, physiology, biological chemistry,
  bioinformatics, computational biology, and minority biomedical research and
  training.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  NIGMS is organized into divisions and a center that support research and
  research training in a range of scientific fields. One division has the specific
  mission of increasing the number of biomedical and behavioral scientists who
  are members of underrepresented minority groups. Major areas in which these
  units fund research are listed by Division names. Division of Cell Biology and
  Biophysics: analytical and separation techniques; biophysical properties of
  proteins and nucleic acids; cell organization, motility, and division; cellular
  imaging; membrane structure and function; molecular biophysics; single-
  molecule biophysics and nanoscience; spectroscopic techniques; structural
  biology; and structural genomics and proteomics. Division of Genetics and
                                                                                   1517
