  Developmental Biology: chromosome organization and mechanics;                      
  developmental biology and genetics; DNA replication, recombination, and repair     
  epigenetics; extrachromosomal inheritance; mechanisms of mutagenesis;              
  neurogenetics and the genetics of behavior; population genetics, evolution, and    
  the genetics of complex traits; protein synthesis; regulation of cell growth, cell 
  division, cell death, and differentiation; RNA transcription and processing; and   
  stem cell biology. Division of Pharmacology, Physiology, and Biological            
  Chemistry: anesthesiology; biochemistry; bioenergetics; bio-organic and bio-       
  inorganic chemistry; biotechnology and metabolic engineering; drug absorption,     
  distribution, metabolism, excretion, and predictive toxicology; enzymology;        
  glycochemistry and glycobiology; molecular immunobiology;                          
  pharmacogenetics/pharmacogenomics; pharmacology and clinical                       
  pharmacology; physiology; synthetic and medicinal chemistry; trauma and burn       
  injury; and wound healing. Division of Minority Opportunities in Research:         
  undergraduate student training and development, post-baccalaureate research        
  education, predoctoral research, postdoctoral research and teaching skill          
  development, faculty development, faculty research, and efficacy of                
  interventions research. Center for Bioinformatics and Computational Biology:       
  biomedical software development, cell and molecular modeling and simulation,       
  computational genomics, database design and enhancement, high-throughput           
  data analysis, and systems biology.                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  NIGMS trainees must be U.S. citizens, non-citizen nationals, or permanent          
  residents.                                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in       
  biomedical research.                                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Each applicant for research projects must present a research plan and furnish      
  evidence that scientific competence, facilities, equipment, and supplies are       
  appropriate to carry out the plan.                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  NIH announces availability of funds for grant programs by issuing funding          
  opportunity announcements in the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts                
  (http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/index.html) and on Grants.gov                  
  (http://www.grants.gov). Application packages must be downloaded from              
  Grants.gov and submitted through Grants.gov. This program is subject to the        
  provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for state and local governments and 45 CFR, Part     
  72 for other organizations, as appropriate.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  All accepted applications are reviewed for scientific merit by an appropriate      
  initial review group and by a national advisory council. National Research         
  Service Award (NRSA) applications for the support of individual fellows and        
  other applications requesting less than $50,000 direct costs per year are not      
  reviewed by the council.) All approved applications compete for available funds    
  on the basis of scientific merit and program emphasis.                             
Deadlines:                                                                           
  A list of NIGMS application receipt dates is available online at                   
  http://www.nigms.nih.gov/Research/Application/AppReceiptDates.htm.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Project Grants: about 9 months. NRSA: (institutional) 9-12 months, (individual)    
  6 months. Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)/Small Business                 
  Technology Transfer Research (STTR): about 7-1/2 months.                           
Appeals:                                                                             
  A principal investigator may question the substantive or procedural aspects of     
  the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the           
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available

  on the NIH Web site at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not97-      
  232.html.                                                                          
Renewals:

  Renewal grants are generally made prior to the expiration of any current award.    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Almost all awards are made for at least 1 year, with additional support (up to 4   
  more years) depending on the recommendation of the scientific review group,        
  the national advisory council, successful annual performance, and availability of  
  funds.                                                                             
Reports:                                                                             
  Annual progress and selected financial status reports for continuing projects and  
  final progress and financial reports on all projects upon conclusion are required. 
  Recipients of NRSAs are required to file termination reports to ascertain          
  compliance with the service and payback provisions.                                
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                    
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000   
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit           


1518                                                                           11-08

  conducted for that year. Audits of profit making organizations are addressed in
  45 CFR Part 72 (Subpart C, Section 74.26). In addition, grants and cooperative
  agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal
  government officials.
Records:
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the
  day on which the grantee submits the last financial status report for the report
  period.
Account Identification:
  75-0897-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,857,878,000; FY 08 $1,857,074,000; and FY 09 est
  $1,858,154,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $20,000 to $7,500,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2008, the Institute's budget was $1.9 billion. The vast majority of
  this money goes to fund grants to scientists at universities, medical schools,
  hospitals, and research institutions throughout the country. At any given time,
  NIGMS supports approximately 4,400 research grants--about 11 percent of the
  grants funded by NIH as a whole. NIGMS also supports approximately 25
  percent of the trainees who receive assistance from NIH.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 16 Procedures of the Departmental Grant Appeals Board; 45 CFR 74;
  45 CFR 92; NIH Extramural Programs brochure; miscellaneous program
  literature from Headquarters Office. Grants will be available under the authority
  of and administered in accordance with the NIH Grants Policy Statement and
  Federal regulations at 42 CFR 52 and 42 USC 241; Omnibus Solicitation of the
  Public Health Service for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR) Grant and
  Cooperative Agreement Applications. Omnibus Solicitation of the National
  Institutes of Health for Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Grant
  Applications.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  National Institute of General Medical Sciences, National Institutes of Health, 45
  Center Drive MSC 6200, Bethesda, MD 20892-6200. Division contacts:
  Division of Cell Biology and Biophysics, Dr. Catherine Lewis, director;
  Telephone: (301)594-0828; Division of Genetics and Developmental Biology,
  Dr. Judith H. Greenberg, director; Telephone: (301) 594-0943; Division of
  Pharmacology, Physiology, and Biological Chemistry, Dr. Michael E. Rogers,
  director; Telephone: (301) 594-3827; Division of Minority Opportunities in
  Research, Dr. Clifton A. Poodry, director; Telephone: (301) 594-3900; Division
  of Extramural Activities, Dr. Ann Hagan, director; Telephone: (301) 594-3910;
  Center for Bioinformatics and Computational Biology Dr. Karin Remington,
  director; Telephone: (301) 451-6446.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nigms.nih.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  NIGMS supports a wide array of grants supporting both research and training in
  areas described in paragraph 50. Examples of these grants are available in the
  Computer Retrieval of Information on Scientific Projects (CRISP) database at
  http://crisp.cit.nih.gov/.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For an overview of NIGMS grant application and review, including funding
  policy, see http://www.nigms.nih.gov/Research/Application/GrantAppRev.html.
93.865 CHILD HEALTH AND HUMAN DEVELOPMENT
EXTRAMURAL RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
  HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301, 448 and 487, as amended, Public Laws
  78-410 and 99-158, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 241; 42 U.S.C. 285g; 42 U.S.C.
  288; Small Business Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992,
  Public Law 102-564.
OBJECTIVES:
  To conduct and support laboratory research, clinical trials, and studies with
  people that explore health processes. NICHD researchers examine growth and
  development, biologic and reproductive functions, behavior patterns, and
  population dynamics to protect and maintain the health of all people. To
  examine the impact of disabilities, diseases, and defects on the lives of
  individuals. With this information, the NICHD hopes to restore, increase, and
  maximize the capabilities of people affected by disease and injury. To sponsor
  training programs for scientists, doctors, and researchers to ensure that NICHD
  research can continue. By training these professionals in the latest research
