  methods and technologies, the NICHD will be able to conduct its research and        
  make health research progress until all children, adults, families, and populations 
  enjoy good health.                                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grantee agrees to administer the grant in accordance with the regulations and       
  policies governing the research grant programs of the Public Health Service as      
  stated in the terms and conditions on the application for the grant. National       
  Research Service Awards: Awarded to individuals for full-time research training     
  in specified behavioral and biomedical shortage areas. Awardees may utilize         
  some of their time in academic and clinical duties if such work is closely related  
  to their research training. Awards may be made to institutions to enable them to    
  make NRS awards to individuals selected by them. Each individual awardee is         
  obligated upon termination of the award to comply with certain service and          
  payback provisions. SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6-months' duration)       
  are to establish the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort  
  that may lead to a commercial product or process. Phase II grants are for the       
  continuation of the research initiated in Phase I and which are likely to result in 
  commercial products or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to receive     
  Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants (normally of 1- year duration) are to         
  determine the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and feasibility of the    
  proposed cooperative effort that has potential for commercial application. Phase    
  II funding is based on results of research initiated in Phase I and scientific and  
  technical merit and commercial potential on Phase II application.                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Universities, colleges, medical, dental and nursing schools, schools of public      
  health, laboratories, hospitals, State and local health departments, other public or
  private institutions, both nonprofit and for-profit, and individuals. National      
  Research Service Award: Support is provided for academic and research training      
  only, in health and health-related areas that are periodically specified by the     
  National Institutes of Health. Individuals with a professional or scientific degree 
  are eligible (M.D., Ph.D., D.D.S., D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., D.Eng., or equivalent       
  domestic or foreign degree). Predoctoral research training grants to institutions   
  are also supported. Proposed study must result in biomedical or behavioral          
  research training in a specified shortage area and which may offer opportunity to   
  research health scientists, research clinicians, etc., to broaden their scientific  
  background or to extend their potential for research in health-related areas.       
  Applicants must be citizens of the United States or be admitted to the United Ss    
  for permanent residency; they also must be nominated and sponsored by a public      
  or private institution having staff and facilities suitable to the proposed research
  training. Domestic nonprofit organizations may apply for the institutional NRS      
  grant. SBIR: SBIR grants can be awarded only to domestic small businesses           
  (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant    
  in the field in which research is proposed, and have no more than 500               
  employees). Primary employment (more than one- half time) of the principal          
  investigator must be with the small business at the time of award and during the    
  conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the research must    
  be performed in the U.S. or its possessions. To be eligible for funding, a grant    
  application must be approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a        
  scientific review group and a national advisory council. STTR grants can be         
  awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are                 
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in       
  which research is proposed and have no more that 500 employees) which               
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development.      
  At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business         
  concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and    
  Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be     
  eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for scientific merit     
  and program relevance by a scientific review group and a national advisory          
  council.                                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in        
  biomedical or biobehavioral research.                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should submit the most recent revision of research grant application     
  form to the Center for Scientific Review, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda,  
  MD 20892, using either PHS Form 398 or electronic submission via Grants.gov         
  as directed in the relevant NIH Funding Opportunity Announcement. NIH is in         
  the process of converting to electronic submission of grant applications through    
  Grants.gov, using the SF-424 (Research and Related (R&R)) family of forms.          
  Information on the transition plan and on registering for electronic submission is  
  available at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/gide/notice-files/NOT-OD-05-067.html.     
  Updates regarding the transition process may be viewed at                           
  http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt/. All required forms specified in the          
  application kit are to be completed by the applicant and submitted with the         
  application package. National Research Service Award: Individual Award: The         
  applicant's academic record, research experience, citizenship, and institution      
  sponsorship should be documented in the application. Institutional Award: the       
  applicant organization must show the objectives, methodology, and resources for     


                                                                                 11-08
  the research training program, the qualifications and experience of directing
  staff, the criteria to be used in selecting individuals for awards, and a detailed
  budget and justification for the amount of grant funds requested. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local
  governments. For-profit organizations' costs are determined in accordance with
  48 CFR, Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other
  grantees, costs will be determined by HHS Regulations, 45 CFR, Part 74,
  Subpart Q. For SBIR and STTR grants, applicant organization (small business
  concern) must present in a research plan an idea that has potential for
  commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific competence,
  experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested are appropriate
  to carry out the plan. Grant forms PHS 6246-1 and PHS 6246-2 are used to
  apply for SBIR Phase I and Phase II, respectively. Grant forms PHS 6246-3 and
  PHS 6246-4 are used to apply for STTR Phase I and Phase II, respectively.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR,
  Part 92, must be used for this program. National Research Service Award: Prior
  to formal application, an individual must arrange for acceptance at a sponsoring
  institution by a sponsor who will supervise the training. Individuals must be
  sponsored by a domestic or foreign institution. SBIR/STTR: Same as for grants
  (above). NRSA applications, may be obtained at
  http://www.grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/416/phs416.htm; e-mail:
  grantsinfo@nih.gov. Completed applications should be submitted to the Center
  for Scientific Review, National Institutes of Health, 6701 Rockledge Drive,
  Bethesda, MD 20892-7710, or electronically via Grants.gov. The SBIR and
  STTR Grant Solicitations and SBIR Contract Solicitation may be obtained
  electronically through the NIH's "Small Business Funding Opportunities" home
  page at www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World Wide Web. A
  limited number of hard copies of these publications are produced. Subject to
  availability, they may be obtained by contacting the NIH support services
  contractor: Telephone: (301) 206-9385; Fax: (301) 206-9722; E-mail:
  a2y@cu.nih.gov. The Solicitation includes application forms, which, upon
  completion, should be submitted to the Center for Scientific Review, National
  Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. Small Business Technology Transfer
  (STTR) program uses same procedure as SBIR immediately above.
Award Procedure:
  Each application receives a dual scientific review by non-NIH scientists. Awards
  are issued by the Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and
  Human Development (NICHD). National Research Service Awards:
  Applications are reviewed for scientific merit by an appropriate study section
  committee or by an institute review committee. If recommended for approval
  and a decision is made to make an award, a formal award notice will be sent to
  the applicant and sponsor. Institutional Awards are issued by the Eunice Kenney
  Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD).
  All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for scientific and technical
  merit by an appropriate scientific peer review panel and by a national advisory
  council or board. All applications receiving a priority score compete for the
  available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on the basis of scientific and technical
  merit and the commercial potential of the proposed research, program relevance,
  and program balance among the areas of research.
Deadlines:
  Applications for New grants, Revisions, Resubmissions and Renewals and
  accepted at various dates throughout the year, as described in the corresponding
  Funding Opportunity Announcements. Standard due dates for competing
  applications may be found at:
  http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/funding/submissionschedule.htm.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 6 to 9 months: National Research Service Awards: From 6 to 9 months.
  SBIR/STTR: About 7-1/2 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator (P.I.) may question the substantive or procedural aspects
  of the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available
  on the NIH web site at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not97-
  232.html.
Renewals:
  Renewal applications are accepted, except for small grants. National Research
  Service Awards: awards may be made for 1, 2, or 3 years. No individual may
  receive NIH fellowship support at the postdoctoral level for more than 3 years.
  Institutional Awards may be renewed.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are usually made annually with no project period to exceed 5 years in
  length. National Research Service Awards: From 1 to 3 years. SBIR: Phase I
  awards are generally for 6 months; Phase II awards normally may not exceed 2
  years. STTR Phase I awards are generally for 1 year; Phase II awards normally
  may not exceed 2 years.
                                                                                 1519
