  Regulations and 42 CFR, Part 66. SBIR Phase I grants (of approximately 6          
  months' duration) are to establish the technical merit and feasibility of a       
  proposed research effort that may lead to a commercial product or process.        
  SBIR Phase II grants are for the continuation of the research initiated in Phase I
  and that are likely to result in commercial products or processes. Only Phase I   
  awardees are eligible to apply for Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants          
  (normally of 1- year duration) are to determine the scientific, technical, and    
  commercial merit and feasibility of the proposedcooperative effort that has       
  potential for commercial application. Phase II funding is based on results of     
  research initiated in Phase I and scientific and technical merit and commercial   
  potential on Phase II application.                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Grants: Universities, colleges, medical, dental and nursing schools, schools of   
  public health, laboratories, hospitals, State and local health departments, other 
  public or private institutions (both for-profit and nonprofit), and individuals.  
  National Research Service Award: Individual NRSAs may be made for                 
  postdoctoral training to applicants who hold a professional or scientific degree  
  (M.D., Ph.D., D.D.S., D.O., D.V.M., Sc.D., D.Eng., or equivalent domestic or      
  foreign degree). Institutional NRSAs may be made for both predoctoral and         
  postdoctoral research training. Predoctoral awardees must have a baccalaureate    
  degree. Applicants must be citizens of the United States or admitted for          
  permanent residency. Individual NRSA awardees must be nominated and               
  sponsored by a public or private nonprofit institution having staff and facilities
  suitable to the proposed research training. Nonprofit domestic organizations      
  may apply for the Institutional NRSA. SBIR grants can be awarded only to          
  domestic small businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated     
  for profit, are not dominant in the field in which research is proposed, and have 
  no more than 500 employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time) of      
  the principal investigator must be with the small business at the time of award   
  and during the conduct of the proposed project. In both Phase I and Phase II, the 
  research must be performed in the U.S. or its possessions. STTR grants can be     
  awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are               
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in     
  which research is proposed and have no more that 500 employees) which             
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development.    
  At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business       
  concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and  
  Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions. To be   
  eligible for funding, a grant application that exceeds $50,000 in direct costs    
  must be approved for scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific       
  review group and a national advisory council. If the direct cost of a grant       
  approved by a scientific review group does not exceed $50,000, it may be          
  funded without approval by a national advisory council.                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in      
  biomedical research.                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  The grants application submission process is currently in transition from a       
  paper-based to an electronic format. A current transition-to-electronic-          
  submission timeline for all grant mechanisms in the National Institutes of Health 
  (NIH) Extramural Research Program timeline can be obtained here:                  
  http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt/files/. NIH recently published a Notice to   
  the NIH Guide to Contracts and Grants announcing a change to the transition       
  schedule for the remaining grant programs still requiring the submission of       
  paper applications. The URL to the Notice is:                                     
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/NOT-OD-07-038.html.               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  For grant programs still requiring submission of paper applications, the standard 
  application forms, as furnished by the Public Health Service (PHS)and required    
  by 45 CFR Part 92 for State and local governments, must be used. Consultation     
  from institute staff is available for all grant progams. Applicants are encouraged
  to visit the Internet Web sites of the 27 institutes and centers at the NIH to    
  obtain contact information for program staff. Applicants for multi-project        
  awards are strongly encouraged to consult program staff before applying.          
  Applicants may obtain forms and instructions for application preparation and      
  submission at the following Internet Web site:                                    
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/forms.htm When completed these applications          
  should be submitted to the Center for Scientific Review, National Institutes of   
  Health, Bethesda, MD. Applications are reviewed for scientific merit, evaluation  
  of applicant qualifications, adequacy of the research environment, and            
  significance of the proposed problem to be studied. The application form and      
  instructions for the preparation and submission of applications to the National   
  Research Service Awards Research Training Grants and Fellowships (NRSA)           
  Program, PHS Form 416-1, can be obtained from the following URL                   
  (http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/416/phs416.htm). Prior to making formal     
  application to the NRSA programs, individual NRSA applicants must be              
  nominated and sponsored by a Federal, public or nonprofit institution having      
  staff and facilities appropriate to the proposed research training program.       


                                                                               11-08
  Information concerning current areas of science being supported by those
  institutes participating in the NRSA Program at the NIH is available on the
  individual institute Web sites. A complete list of institutes at NIH is available at:
  http://www.nih.gov/icd. In addition, information about each institute's NRSA
  research topics and information about the NRSA Program can be obtained from
  the Division of Extramural Outreach and Information Resources, (see address
  above). The NRSA program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for
  State and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit
  organizations. The annual NIH Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR)-
  Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) Omnibus Solicitation and SBIR-
  STTR Contract Solicitation may be obtained electronically by accessing the
  following URL: http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm. The solicitations
  include application preparation and submission guidelines and instructions,
  information about review considerations, and Internet hyperlinks to the SBIR-
  STTR application and/or or contract proposal forms. Applications to NIH's
  SBIR-STTR Programs must be submitted electronically through the U.S. Federal
  Government's Internet Web site, Grants.gov: www.grants.gov. Submission of
  SBIR-STTR applications through Grants.gov requires pre-registration, which
  typically takes 2-4 weeks to complete. Information about registration to submit
  applications through Grants.gov can be found at:
  http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt/preparing.htm. Applicants are encouraged
  to read and refer to the extensive information on electronic submission of grant
  applications on the NIH Electronic Submission of Grants Applications Internet
  Web site at: http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt.
Award Procedure:
  Grants and Institutional NRSAs: Each application receives an initial scientific
  review by non-NIH scientists and a secondary review by the National Advisory
  Council on Aging. Individual NRSAs do not receive a secondary review by the
  National Advisory Council on Aging. Awards are issued by the NIA to the
  grantee institution. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are evaluated for
  scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer review panel and
  by a national advisory council or board. All applications receiving a priority
  score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on the basis of scientific
  and technical merit and commercial potential of the proposed research, program
  relevance, and program balance among the areas of research.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines vary by type of award. See http://grants.nih.gov/grants/dates.htm.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Grants: From 6 to 9 months. National Research Service Awards: From 6 to 9
  months. SBIR/STTR: About 7-1/2 months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator may question the substantive or procedural aspects of
  the review of his/her application by communicating with the staff of the
  Institute. A description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available
  on the NIH home page www.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not97-232.html.
Renewals:
  Grants: Renewal applications are accepted. National Research Service Awards:
  Awards may be made for 1, 2, or 3 years. No individual may receive NIH
  fellowship support at the postdoctoral level for more than 3 years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant Awards are usually made annually and usually with project periods not to
  exceed 5 years in length. National Research Service Awards: Institutional
  awards may be made for up to 5 years, and individual awards may be made for
  as many as 3 years. SBIR: Normally, Phase I awards are for 6 months; normally,
  Phase II awards are for 2 years. STTR: Normally, Phase I awards are for 1 year;
  normally, Phase II awards are for 2 years.
Reports:
  Grants: Annual progress reports and reports of expenditures are required.
  National Research Service Awards: Institutional awards require that a statement
  of appointment for each trainee selected by the Program Director be submitted to
  the NIA for each year of training. Reports are required after termination of the
  awards to ascertain compliance with the service and payback provisions for each
  institutionally selected trainee. Individual awards require reports upon award
  expiration to determine compliance with the service and payback provisions.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for 3 years from the
  day on which the grantee submits the last expenditure report for the report
  period.
                                                                                    1521
