  The Clinical Study Planning Grant is designed to support the development of an      
  applied clinical research plan. NEI Research Grants for Secondary Data              
  Analysis provide limited support for meritorious research projects that involve     
  secondary analysis of research data generated from clinical trials, population      
  research and other applied clinical vision research projects supported by the       
  Institute. Bioengineering Research Grants (BRG) support basic bioengineering        
  research whose outcomes are likely to advance health or health-related vision       
  research. BRGs may propose to apply basic bioengineering design-directed or         
  hypothesis-drive research to an important vision research area. Bioengineering      
  Research Partnership grants support multidisciplinary research teams applying       
  an integrative, systems approach to develop knowledge and/or methods to             
  prevent, detect, diagnose, or treat diseases of the eye and visual system. NEI      
  Translational Research Program on Therapy for Visual Disorders grants provide       
  support to collaborative, multidisciplinary research focused on the development     
  of novel therapies to restore or prevent the loss of function due to visual diseases
  and disorders. Small Business Innovation Research Phase I grants are awarded        
  to establish the technical merit and feasibility of a proposed research effort that 
  may lead to a commercial product or process. Phase II grants are for the            
  continuation of the research initiated in Phase I that is likely to result in       
  commercial products or processes. Only Phase I awardees are eligible to apply       
  for Phase II support. Small Business Technology Transfer Research, Phase I          
  grants are to determine the scientific, technical, and commercial merit and         
  feasibility of the proposed cooperative effort that has potential for commercial    
  application. Phase II funding is based on results of researchinitiatedin Phase I    
  and scientific and technical merit and commercial potential on Phase II             
  application. National Research Service Awards (NRSAs), both individual and          
  institutional, support training in vision research. Some individuals who receive    
  an NRSA may be obligated upon termination of the award to comply with               
  certain service and payback provisions. The NIH Extramural Loan Repayment           
  Programs provides payback of a portion of eligible student loan debt of             
  qualified health professionals who agree to conduct clinical research.linical       
  research.                                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Public/State-controlled institutions of higher education, private institutions of   
  higher education, Hispanic-serving institutions, Historically Black Colleges and    
  Universities, tribally-controlled colleges and universities, Alaska Native- and     
  Native Hawaiian-serving Institutions, nonprofits with or without 501(c)(3) IRS      
  status, Small Businesses, for-profit organizations, federal institutions, and State 
  and local units of government are eligible to make application for research         
  grants, cooperative agreements, and career development awards. Foreign              
  institutions may apply for research grants only. The grantee institution must       
  agree to administer the grant in accordance with prevailing regulations and         
  policies. Candidates for Mentored Clinical Scientist Development Awards are         
  restricted to those holding health professional degrees in the clinical sciences    
  (M.D., O.D., D.D.S., D.V.M., or equivalent). NRSAs are provided for                 
  predoctoral and postdoctoral research training. Individual NRSAs may be made        
  for applicants who hold a professional or scientific degree (M.D., Ph.D., O.D.,     
  D.D.S., D.V.M., Sc.D., D.Eng., or equivalent degree). Institutional NRSAs may       
  be made for both predoctoral and postdoctoral research training. Predoctoral        
  awardees must have completed the baccalaureate degree. All awardees must be         
  citizens of the United States, or have been admitted to the U.S. for permanent      
  residence prior to award. Individual NRSA awardees must be nominated and            
  sponsored by a Federal, public or private nonprofit institution having staff and    
  facilities suitable to the proposed research training. Federal and for-profit       
  organizations, and State and local governments may not apply for an                 
  institutional NRSA. Refer to the NIH Program Guidelines on NRSAs for further        
  information. The Small Business Innovation grants: SBIRs can be awarded only        
  to domestic small businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated    
  for profit, are not dominant in the field in which research is proposed, and have   
  not more than 500 employees). Primary employment (more than one-half time)          
  of the principal investigator must be with the small business at the time of the    
  award and during the conduct of the proposed project. The research during both      
  Phase I and Phase II must be performed in the U.S. or its possessions. Only         
  Phase I awardees are eligible to receive Phase II support. STTR grants can be       
  awarded only to domestic small business concerns (entities that are                 
  independently owned and operated for profit, are not dominant in the field in       
  which research is proposed and have no more that 500 employees) which               
  "partner" with a research institution in cooperative research and development.      
  At least 40 percent of the project is to be performed by the small business         
  concern and at least 30 percent by the research institution. In both Phase I and    
  Phase II, the research must be performed in the U.S. and its possessions.           
  Individuals applying for the NIH Loan Repayment Programs must be engaged in         
  patient oriented research and be trained in a medical subspecialty as defined       
  under Section 206 of Public Law 106-505. These individuals must be U.S.             
  citizens, U.S. citizen nationals, or lawfully admitted for permanent residence in   
  the U.S.; have a student loan debt which equals or exceeds 20 percent of their      
  university compensation; have no Federal judgment lien against their property       
  arising from a Federal debt; and owe no obligation of health professional service   
  to the Federal government, a State, or other entity unless deferrals are granted    
                                                                                      


                                                                                 11-08
  during the length of their Loan Repayment Program service obligation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any nonprofit or for-profit organization, company, or institution engaged in
  biomedical research.
Credentials/Documentation:
  (1) Research grants and cooperative agreements: Applications for research
  involving the use of human subjects must include documentation that all key
  personnel have received training in human subject protection. Applicants may
  provide additional documentation to establish the scientific and technical merit
  and the programmatic relevance of the application. (2) Individual NRSA
  applications: The applicant's academic record, research experience, institutional
  sponsorship, and the proposed area and plan of training must be included. (3)
  Institutional NRSA application: The applicant institution must discuss the
  objectives, methodology and resources for the research training program; the
  qualifications and experience of staff; the criteria to be used in selecting
  individuals for an appointment; and a budget and justification for the grant
  funds requested. Costs will be determined in accordance with the appropriate
  OMB Circular or with HHS Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q. (4) For
  SBIR and STTR grants, the small business concern must present a research plan
  that has potential for commercialization and furnish evidence that scientific
  competence, experimental methods, facilities, equipment, and funds requested
  are appropriate to carry out the plan. Loan Repayment Program applicants must
  provide certification of loan status, loan data verification, and an institutional
  supporting statement.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants for core grants, clinical study planning grants, cooperative
  agreements, clinical vision research development awards, small research grants
  for data analyses, and bioengineering research partnerships should seek
  preapplication coordination through contact with the National Eye Institute staff.
   All staff may be contacted at (301) 451-2020. Applicants planning to submit a
  grant application requesting $500,000 or more in direct costs for any year are
  required to discuss their eligibility with the NEI staff, at (301) 451-2020. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Standard application forms, as required by 45 CFR, Part 74 and 92, must be
  used for this program. Prior to making formal application to the NRSA
  programs, individual NRSA applicants must be nominated and sponsored by a
  federal, public, or nonprofit institution having staff and facilities appropriate to
  the proposed research program. Information regarding the application process,
  access to forms, and information regarding the httP//www.Grants.Gov site are
  available on the NEI web site at http://www.nei.nih.gov. Supplemental
  instructions for preparing applications for Core Grants, Mentored Clinical
  Scientist Development Awards, Clinical Study Planning Grants, and cooperative
  agreements for clinical studies or conferences are available on the internet at
  http://www.nei.nih.gov/ SBIR and STTR Grant Solicitations and SBIR Contract
  Solicitation may be obtained electronically through the NIH's "Small Business
  Funding Opportunities" home page at
  http://www.nih.gov/grants/funding/sbir.htm on the World Wide Web. The
  Solicitations include submission procedures, review considerations, and grant
  application or contract proposal forms. Application forms and information
  concerning the NRSA program are available from the Center for Scientific
  Review, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD 20892, and should be
  submitted to the same address. National Eye Institute guidelines and
  supplemental instructions for preparing Institutional NRSA applications are
  available on the World Wide Web at http://www.nei.nih.gov/ This program is
  subject to the provisions of 45 CFR 74 and 92 and OMB Circular No. A-110 for
  nonprofit organizations, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed initially for scientific and technical merit. A second
  level review of the programmatic relevance of applications is provided by the
  National Advisory Eye Council. (Second level review of NRSA fellowship
  applications is performed by a committee of senior staff of the National Eye
  Institute. Final approval is made by the Director, National Eye Institute. Formal
  award notices are transmitted to the appropriate institutional official.
Deadlines:
  Receipt dates for all NIH-supported grant and cooperative agreement
  mechanisms are available at
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/funding/submissionschedule.htm.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately six to nine months for Research Grants, Mentored Clinical
  Scientist Development Awards, Clinical Study Planning Grants, cooperative
  clinical studies or conferences, Core Grants, and NRSA Institutional
  applications; from six to seven months for NRSA individual applications; and
  for SBIR, about eight months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator may communicate to the staff of the National Eye
  Institute any concerns regarding the substantive or procedural aspects of the
  review of an application.
Renewals:
  Renewals of research grant or cooperative agreement support are by competitive
                                                                                   1523
