  genders, minorities, and their subgroups as appropriate for the scientific goals of
  the research; the reasonableness of the proposed budget and duration in relation   
  to the proposed research; and, the adequacy of the proposed protection for         
  humans, animals or the environment, to the extent they may be adversely            
  affected by the project proposed in the application. A second level review of the  
  programmatic relevance of most applications is provided by the National            
  Advisory Eye Council. The following criteria will be used in considering the       
  scientific and technical merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The    
  soundness and technical merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of  
  the proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the    
  technological innovation of the proposed research; (4) the potential of the        
  proposed research for commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of the       
  budget requested; (6) the environment; and (7) where applicable, the adequacy      
  of assurances detailing the proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or           
  animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect    
  on the environment. Phase II grant applications will be reviewed based upon the    
  following criteria: (1) The degree to which the Phase I objectives were met and    
  feasibility demonstrated; (2) the scientific and technical merit of the proposed   
  approach for achieving the Phase II objectives; (3) the qualifications of the      
  proposed principal investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (4) the        
  technological innovation, originality, or societal importance of the proposed      
  research; (5) the potential of the proposed research for commercial application;   
  (6) the reasonableness of the budget requested for the work proposed; (7) the      
  adequacy and suitability of the facilities and research environment; and (8)       
  where applicable, the adequacy of assurances detailing the proposed means for      
  (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects, and/or (b) protecting against or        
  minimizing any adverse effect on the environment.                                  
                                                                                     
93.879 MEDICAL LIBRARY ASSISTANCE                                                    
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                            
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, Title III, Part A, Section 301, Title IV, Part D,       
  Subpart 2, Sections 472-476, as amended, Public Law 103-43; Small Business         
  Research and Development Enhancement Act of 1992, Public Law 102-564.              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To improve health information services by providing funds to train professional    
  personnel; to conduct research in biomedical informatics, bioinformatics and       
  related computer and information sciences; to facilitate management of             
  electronic health science information; to plan, develop and test feasibility of    
  advanced information tools; to prepare certain kinds of biomedical publications;   
  to advance biocomputing and bioinformatics through participation in the            
  Biomedical Information Science and Technology Initiative (BISTI), and NIH          
  Roadmap Initiatives relating to biomedical informatics, bioinformatics and         
  biomedical computing; to stimulate and foster scientific and technological         
  innovation through cooperative research development carried out between small      
  business concerns and research institutions, through Small Business Research       
  Innovation (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR) grants.            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  RESEARCH GRANT PROGRAMS: Research Grants are available for                         
  fundamental and applied research in biomedical informatics and bioinformatics.     
  Areas of research interest include: representation, organization and retrieval of  
  biomedical and biological knowledge, data and images; enhancement of human         
  intellectual capacities through virtual reality, dynamic modeling, artificial      
  intelligence, and machine learning; medical decision-making; linguistic analyses   
  for natural language processing and understanding; informatics topics relevant     
  to public health and informatics for disaster management. Research Project         
  Grants (R01) are available for rigorous scientific research studies and            
  experiments. Small Project Grants (R03) provide short-term awards answer           
  specific, targeted research questions, gather preliminary data, show proof of      
  concept. Exploratory/Developmental Grants (R21) support early, conceptual          
  work and feasibility tests. Other research grants include Informatics Conference   
  Grants, and Innovations in Biomedical Computational Science and Technology         
  (BISTI) Grants, and a number of NIH-wide grant programs on high priority           
  topics such as health literacy. Further information on research grants is available
  at http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/Grants.html#research.TRAINING PROGRAMS                
  AND FELLOWSHIPS: To assure an adequate national pool of informatics                
  researchers and health information specialists, training is offered through formal 
  training programs and individual fellowships. University Biomedical Informatics    
  Research Training Programs promote the career training of talented persons who     
  seek research careers in biomedical informatics, bioinformatics, and public        
  health informatics. A competition for these institution-based training grants is   
  announced every five years. University-based training support may be at the pre-   
  or post-doctoral level. Training sites recruit and choose their trainees, and are  
  expected to have well established computer facilities, strong informatics research 
  and education programs, experienced faculty and staff committed to research in



                                                                                11-08
  the field of biomedical computing and/or bioinformatics, and available courses
  or experience in computer science, information science, and cognitive sciences.
  Institutional training grants provide trainee stipends, tuition and fees, travel, and
  certain institutional support costs. NLM also offers individual Informationist
  Fellowships for cross-training of information specialists to work in scientific and
  biomedical contexts. Stipends are based on published predoctoral stipend levels
  that are updated each year. Further information on training grants and
  fellowships grants is available at
  http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/Grants.html#training. CAREER DEVELOPMENT
  PROGRAMS: NLM offers an early career development award to help
  informatics trainees make the transition to a successful independent research
  career. NIH Pathway to Independence Career Development awards are for
  investigators who are making the transition to their first research positions.
  These grants can last up to 5 years. They include a mentored period, followed by
  an unmentored period, and provide both salary and a research fund. Research
  supplement awards are also offered to promote diversity in health-related
  informatics research, and to promote re-entry into informatics careers. Diversity
  and re-entry awards are issued as supplements to existing research grants funded
  by NLM. NLM also participates in the NIH Loan Repayment Award (LRP)
  program. The LRP awards are available to those who qualify and will commit to
  two years of clinical informatics research. Further information on career
  development grants is available at
  http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/Grants.html#career. RESOURCE GRANT
  PROGRAMS: Resource grants support the development and deployment of
  knowledge management tools, resources, and services that address identified,
  unmet needs for a broad audience. Two types of resource grants are available:
  Knowledge Management & Applied Informatics grants and Planning Grants for
  Integrated Advanced Information Management Systems (IAIMS). In addition,
  NLM offers Grants for Scholarly Works to support preparation of books in the
  history and philosophy of biomedicine, bioethics, and public policy areas of
  importance to health professionals and biomedical scientists. The purpose,
  restrictions, funding periods and award limits vary for these grant programs.
  Knowledge management and IAIMS Planning grants provide support for direct
  costs only. Knowledge grants provide $150,000 per year for up to 3 years.
  Awards for IAIMS planning are limited to $150,000 per year for 1 or 2 years.
  Scholarly Works grants are limited to $50,000 annually for one, two or three
  years. Further information on resource grants is available at
  http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/Grants.html#resource. SMALL BUSINESS
  RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS: Small Business Innovation
  Research (SBIR) and Small Business Technology Transfer Research (STTR)
  grants are made to U.S. small businesses that seek to undertake informatics
  research and development leading to commercialization. The STTR program
  requires a small business applicant organization to formally collaborate with a
  research institution in Phase I and Phase II. SBIR Phase I grants (of
  approximately 6-months' duration) are to establish the technical merit and
  feasibility of a proposed research effort that may lead to a commercial product or
  process. Phase II grants are for the continuation of the research initiated in Phase
  I and that are likely to result in commercial products or processes. Only Phase I
  awardees are eligible to receive Phase II support. STTR Phase I grants (normally
  of 1-year duration) are to determine the scientific, technical, and commercial
  merit and feasibility of the proposed cooperative effort that has potential for
  commercial application. Phase II funding is based on results of research initiated
  in Phase I and scientific and technical merit and commercial potential on Phase
  II application. Further information on SBIR/STTR grants is available at
  http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/Grants.html#small.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any individual(s) with the skills, knowledge, and resources necessary to carry
  out the proposed research as the project director/principal investigator (PD/PI)is
  invited to work with his/her organization to develop an application for support.
  Individuals from underrepresented racial and ethnic groups as well as
  individuals with disabilities are always encouraged to apply for NIH support.
  See Beneficiary Eligibility below for further details.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Research Grants are available to public or private, domestic or foreign, for profit
  or not-for-profit institutions or organizations with research capabilities in
  biomedical informatics, bioinformatics, computer sciences, information sciences
  and related disciplines. Training Grants may be made to nonfederal public and
  nonprofit private institutions. Fellowships may be awarded to individuals at the
  pre-doctoral level. With the exception of NIH Pathway to Independence awards,
  trainees or fellows must be citizens or non-citizen nationals of the United States
  or have been lawfully admitted to the United States for permanent residence.
  Resource grants (IAIMS, Knowledge Management, Scholarly Works) are open to
  any U.S. public or private nonprofit health-related institution or organization.
  For Scholarly Works grants, an appropriate public or private nonprofit
  institution of higher education may apply in behalf of the principal investigator
  on the project, or an individual unaffiliated with an academic organization may
  apply directly. SBIR and STTR grants can be awarded only to domestic small
  businesses (entities that are independently owned and operated for profit, are not
  dominant in the field in which research is proposed, and have no more than 500
                                                                                   1525
