  employees). To be eligible for funding, a grant application must be approved for     
  scientific merit and program relevance by a scientific review group and a            
  national advisory council.                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Cost allowability will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for        
  State, Local, and Indian Tribal Governments, OMB Circular A-21 for                   
  Educational Institutions and for For-profit organizations, costs will be             
  determined in accordance with 48 CFR Subpart 31.2 Federal Acquisition                
  Regulation (FAR). Nonprofit institutions cost principles are outlined under          
  OMB Circular A-122 and for Hospitals, 45 CFR Part 74, Appendix E. These              
  cost principles are codified under 45 CFR 74.27 and 92.22. Uniform                   
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Other Agreements with Institutions        
  of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations are outlined       
  in OMB Circular A-110. Documentation providing NIH grants policy and                 
  guidance can be found at http://grants.nih.gov/grants/policy/policy.htm. The         
  Division of Extramural Programs, NLM provides program specific grant                 
  information at http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep.                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  NIH is in the process of moving to electronic submission of applications for all     
  of its grant programs. Only electronic applications are accepted for all types of    
  Research Grants, SBIR and STTR grants, and Resource Grants. Electronic grant         
  submission of the SF424 (R&R) form is via http://www.grants.gov. For                 
  instructions on submitting grants electronically, see                                
  http://era.nih.gov/ElectronicReceipt/. A timeline of transitions to electronic       
  submission for each grant program is available at                                    
  http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/Deadlines.html. For all other grant programs, a paper      
  form is submitted to the Center for Scientific Review, National Institutes of        
  Health, Bethesda, MD 20892. Form PHS-398 is used for NIH Pathway to                  
  Independence Grants and Biomedical Resource Grants. Forms and instructions           
  for PHS-398 can be downloaded at                                                     
  http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/funding/phs398/phs398.html. For Informationist         
  Fellowships, submit Form PHS-416-1, with forms and instructions                      
  downloadable at http://grants1.nih.gov/grants/funding/416/phs416.htm. These          
  programs are subject to the provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local        
  governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations. Updates          
  on NLM application deadlines and links to available forms can also be found at       
  http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/.                                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applications are evaluated for merit by a committee of scientific experts and for    
  program relevance by the Board of Regents (BOR) of the National Library of           
  Medicine (NLM). If favorably recommended, the application is considered for          
  funding. An award notice is prepared when it is determined that a grant is to be     
  paid. This notice is sent to the grantee with a letter from the program officer      
  when special provisions are necessary. All accepted SBIR/STTR applications are       
  evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate scientific peer       
  review panel and by a national advisory council or board. All applications           
  receiving a priority score compete for available SBIR/STTR set-aside funds on        
  the basis of scientific and technical merit and commercial potential of the          
  proposed research, program relevance, and program balance among the areas of         
  research.                                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Each program has 3 application deadlines per year, which vary by grant program       
  and whether the application is new or revised. Special Requests for Applications     
  (RFAs) or newly established Program Announcements (PAs) issued annually              
  may have other limited deadline dates. For an up-to-date list of deadlines, see      
  http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/Deadlines.html.                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 9-10 months after the application deadline.                                     
Appeals:                                                                               
  NIH policy allows a principal investigator (PI) to appeal the outcome of a review    
  if procedural errors or factual errors entered into the review of the application. A 
  description of the NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available at                 
  http://grants.nih.gov/grants/guide/notice-files/not97-232.html. However,             
  differences of scientific opinion that often occur between investigators and         
  reviewers may not be contested through these procedures. In addition,                
  communications from investigators consisting of additional information that was      
  not available to the reviewers are not considered to be appeals.                     
Renewals:                                                                              
  Competing renewal applications follow same review procedures and deadlines as        
  new applications; dates for submission are at                                        
  http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/Deadlines.html. NIH also permits the resubmission          
  of an application that has been revised following merit review. Deadlines for        
  resubmissions are listed with other deadlines.                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  There are no statutory formula or matching requirements for NLM grants.              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The length of a grant award varies by the type of grant. R01 research grants         
  generally last three or four years. Resource grants, Small Pilot and                 


1526                                                                             11-08

  Exploratory/Developmental grants, Fellowships and NIH Pathway to
  Independence awards have defined maximum periods that are provided in the
  funding opportunity announcement.
Reports:
  Annual grant progress reports and Financial Status Reports must be submitted as
  required. At the end of a grant, the awardee must file a final progress report,
  final Financial Status Report and final statement of invention.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, States, local
  governments, and nonprofit organizations that expend $500,000 or more in a
  year in Federal awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted
  for that year. In accordance with 45 CFR 74 Subpart C Section 74.26(d) for-
  profit organizations that expend more than $500,000 in DHHS awards in a year
  shall have an audit of the DHHS awards in accordance with the "Government
  Auditing Standards" (Yellow Book) or an audit that meets the requirements of
  OMB Circular A-133. Award recipients that do not meet the $500,000 threshold
  are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in
  Circular A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject to
  review or audit by appropriate officials of the Federal (funding) agency, pass-
  through entity and the Government Accountability Office (GAO). Foreign
  organizations must use the for-profit audit requirements for DHHS supported
  awards. The NIH/DHHS Loan Repayment Program (LRP) is not subject to
  Federal auditing requirements. For OMB policy statements on grants, see
  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/grants_docs.html. Government Auditing
  Standards is available on the GAO Web site at
  http://www.gao.gov/govaud/ybk01.htm.
Records:
  Financial and programmatic grant records must be retained for 3 years from the
  day on which the grantee submits the last (annual) Financial Status Report
  (FSR). Streamlined Noncompeting Application Process (SNAP) awardees
  beginning date for record retention purposes is the date of the FSR submission
  for the entire competitive segment of the grant.
Account Identification:
  75-0807-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Extramural Funding Awards) FY 07 $67,568,000; FY 08 est $63,389,000; and
  FY 09 est $63,389,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $7,000 to $1,561,223; $333,452 - FY 07 total average cost for Basic Research
  Grant (R01); $143,773 - FY 07 total average cost for Knowledge Management
  Grant (G08); $70,692 - FY 07 total average cost for Scholarly Works Grant
  (G13).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 223 new and continuing awards were made for projects in
  biomedical informatics, bioinformatics, informatics training and health
  information management. It is anticipated that approximately 213 awards will be
  issued in fiscal year 2008 and approximately 213 awards will be issued in fiscal
  year 2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  National Library of Medicine Grant Programs are awarded under the Public
  Health Service Act and the Medical Library Assistance Act. Grants and funding
  awards are made available under the authority of the Acts as codified under 45
  CFR 74 (Uniform Administrative Requirements for Awards and Subawards to
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, Other Nonprofit Organizations, and
  Commercial Organizations; and Certain Grants and Agreements with States,
  Local Governments, and Indian Tribal Governments and 45 CFR 92 (Uniform
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to States
  and Local Governments); the NIH Grants Policy Statement is available to
  grantees as a single document governing the NIH/DHHS policy requirements
  and terms and conditions of NIH/DHHS grant awards. Additional regulations
  and guidelines are provided in the Omnibus Solicitation of the Public Health
  Service for Small Business Innovation Research (SBIR - R43, R44) Grant and
  Cooperative Agreement Applications including the Omnibus Solicitation of the
  National Institutes of Health for Small Business Technology Transfer (STTR -
  R41, R42) Grant Applications.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Extramural Programs, National Library of Medicine, National Institutes of
  Health, Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services,
  Bethesda, MD 20894. Telephone: (301) 496-4621. Program Contacts:
  Telephone: (301) 594-4882. Grants Management Contact: Grants Management
  Officer: Telephone: (301) 496-4221. Grant Review Contact: Scientific Review
  Administrator. Telephone: (301) 496-4253. Use the same numbers for FTS.
  Website: http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
