  Lists of awards made since 1997, in each active grant program, are available on     
  the agency's web site at http://www.nlm.nih.gov/ep/funded.html.                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The standard NIH review criteria, significance, approach, innovation,               
  investigator, environment are used as the basis of merit review. For NLM            
  resource grants, these include considerations as to relevance to program            
  objectives; impact on the management and transmission of biomedical                 
  knowledge; institutional readiness and resources available to project; expertise    
  of project director and key personnel; scientific or technical merit of project;    
  sustainability of what is deployed, and appropriateness of budget. Comparative      
  priorities on the above criteria are based on collective judgment of peer           
  reviewers. The following criteria are used in considering the scientific and        
  technical merit of SBIR/STTR Phase I grant applications: (1) The soundness and      
  technical merit of the proposed approach; (2) the qualifications of the proposed    
  principal investigator, supporting staff, and consultants; (3) the scientific,      
  technical, or technological innovation of the proposed research; (4) the potential  
  of the proposed research for commercial application; (5) the appropriateness of     
  the budget requested; (6) the adequacy and suitability of the facilities and        
  research environment; and (7) where applicable, the adequacy of assurances          
  detailing the proposed means for (a) safeguarding human or animal subjects,         
  and/or (b) protecting against or minimizing any adverse effect on the               
  environment. Phase II grant applications are reviewed based upon the similar        
  criteria, and on the degree to which the Phase I objectives were met and            
  feasibility demonstrated General Services Administration Office of                  
  Governmentwide Policy Office of Acquisition Policy Regulatory and Federal           
  Assistance Publication Division (MVA).                                              
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.884 GRANTS FOR TRAINING IN PRIMARY CARE

                                                                                      
MEDICINE AND DENTISTRY                                                                
   (Primary Care Training)                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 747, 42 U.S.C. 293K as amended;       
  Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  Grants are awarded for the following purposes: (1) Residency Training in            
  Primary Care-- to plan, develop, and operate or participate (including provision    
  of financial assistance to residents in such programs) in approved residency        
  programs in family medicine, general internal medicine and/or general               
  pediatrics; (2) Physician Faculty Development in Primary Care-- to plan,            
  develop, and operate (including provision of financial assistance to trainees in    
  such programs) programs for the training of physicians who teach or plan to         
                                                                                      
  teach in family medicine (including geriatrics), general internal medicine and/or

                                                                                      
  general pediatrics training programs; (3) Predoctoral Training in Primary Care--

                                                                                      
  to plan, develop, and operate or participate (including provision of financial

                                                                                      
  assistance to students in such programs) in predoctoral programs in family

                                                                                      
  medicine, general internal medicine and/or general pediatrics; (4) Academic

                                                                                      
  Administrative Units in Primary Care-- to meet the costs of projects to establish,

                                                                                      
  maintain or improve academic administrative units (which may be departments,        
  divisions, or other units) to provide clinical instruction in family medicine,      
  general internal medicine and/or general pediatrics; (5) Physician Assistant        
  Training in Primary Care-- to meet the costs of projects to plan, develop, and      
  operate or maintain programs for the training of physician assistants and for the   
  training of individuals who will teach in programs to provide training of           
  physician assistants; (6) Residency Training in General and Pediatric Dentistry -   
  - to meet the costs of planning, developing, or operating programs and to provide   
  financial assistance to residents in such programs as general dentistry or          
  pediatric dentistry in dental schools, approved residency programs in the general   
  or pediatric practice of dentistry, approved advanced education programs in the     
  general or pediatric practice of dentistry, or approved residency programs in       
  pediatric dentistry .                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants may not be used for new construction, patient services.                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The applicant organization must meet the eligibility requirements as indicated      
  for each program area: Residency Training in Primary Care; Physician Faculty;       
  Development in Primary Care; Physician Assistant Training in Primary Care;          
  Public or nonprofit private hospitals, accredited schools of medicine or

                                                                                      
  osteopathic medicine, or public or private nonprofit entities are eligible to apply.
  Faith-based and community-based organizations that meet the criteria in the         
  preceding sentence are eligible to apply. Predoctoral Training in Primary Care;     
  Academic Administrative Units in Primary Care; Accredited public or nonprofit       
  private schools of allopathic or osteopathic medicine are eligible to apply. Faith- 
  based and community-based organizations that meet the criteria in the preceding

                                                                                 11-08
  sentence are eligible to apply. Residency Training in General and Pediatric
  Dentistry; Entities that have programs in accredited dental schools, approved
  residency programs in the general or pediatric practice of dentistry, approved
  advanced education programs in the general or pediatric practice of dentistry, or
  approved residency programs in pediatric dentistry are eligible to apply. Faith-
  based and community-based organizations that meet the criteria in the preceding
  sentence are eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  For the following programs: Residency Training in Primary Care; Physician
  Faculty Development in Primary Care; Physician Assistant Training in Primary
  Care; Public or nonprofit private hospitals, accredited schools of medicine or
  osteopathic medicine, or public or private nonprofit entities are eligible to apply.
  Faith-based and community-based organizations that meet the criteria in the
  preceding sentence are eligible to apply: Predoctoral Training in Primary Care;
  Academic Administrative Units in Primary Care; Accredited public or nonprofit
  private schools of allopathic or osteopathic medicine are eligible to apply. Faith-
  based and community-based organizations that meet the criteria in the preceding
  sentence are eligible to apply. Residency Training in General and Pediatric
  Dentistry; Entities that have programs in accredited dental schools, approved
  residency programs in the general or pediatric practice of dentistry, approved
  advanced education programs in the general or pediatric practice of dentistry, or
  approved residency programs in pediatric dentistry are eligible to apply. Faith-
  based and community-based organizations that meet the criteria in the preceding
  sentence are eligible to apply.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from the
  Headquarters Office.
Deadlines:
  Deadline dates are available at the Agency website www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 4 to 6 months after receipt of application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  During the last budget period of the project period, competing continuation
  applications may be submitted for up to three (3) years of support.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project periods are for up to 3 years.
Reports:
  A progress report must be submitted for the second or subsequent budget periods
  within the approved project period for continued funding. Financial Status
  Reports are required within 90 days after the end of each budget period. A final
  progress report and financial status report must be submitted within 90 days
  after the end of the project period. A CPMS report must be submitted annually.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $45,711,492; FY 08 est $43,872,255; and FY 09 est
  $43,872,255.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
                                                                                   1527
