  Semi-annual and year end progress reports are required.                                
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June             
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"         
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that       
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal             
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted       
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                                 
Records:                                                                                 
  Grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records for a minimum of 3          
  years after the end of a grant period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit    
  or other action involving the record has been started before the expiration of the     
  3-year period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and        
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year   
  period, whichever is later. More detailed information regarding retention              
  requirements are provided in Title 45, CFR Parts 74 and 92.                            
Account Identification:                                                                  
  75-0140-0-1-551.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  FY 07 $415,032,000; FY 08 est $398,059,000; and FY 09 est not reported.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  $330,787 to $39,203,268.                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  FY 2004 and 2005 funds are intended to support needs assessments updates for           
  hospitals and supporting healthcare entities; continuation, refinement and             
  implementation of DHHS-approved work plans that are in accordance with                 
  program guidance, and contracts to health care entities to upgrade their ability to    
  respond to terrorist and other public health emergencies requiring mass                
  immunization, treatment, isolation and quarantine in the aftermath of                  
  bioterrorism or other outbreaks of infectious disease.                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and       
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,            
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  CDR Melissa Sanders, Chief, National Bioterrorism Hospital Preparedness                
  Branch, Division of Healthcare Preparedness, Healthcare Systems Bureau,                
  Health Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Rm 13-103,            
  5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-0924.                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Grants Management Office: Oscar Tanner, Director, Division of Grants                   
  Management, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of                
  Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16, Rockville, MD               
  20857. Health Services Branch: 301-443-2385; Research and Training Branch:             
  (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                   
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  93.003, Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund.                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  FY 2002 awards were used for the development and implementation of regional            
  plans to improve the capacity of hospitals, their emergency departments,               
  outpatient centers, EMS systems and other collaborating health care entities for       
  responding to incidents requiring mass immunization, treatment, isolation and          
  quarantine in the aftermath of bioterrorism or other outbreaks of infectious           
  disease. FY 2003 and 2004 funds are intended to support needs assessments, the         
  development and implementation of DHHS-approved work plans, and contracts              
  to health care entities to upgrade their ability to respond to terrorist incidents and 
  other public health emergencies.                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  This is a formula grant program. The applicants must submit their application in       
  accordance with fiscal year program guidance. The applications are reviewed by         
  an objective review committee and approved applications are processed                  
  immediately. Applications approved with conditions, require the applicant to           
  resubmit supporting information within a prescribed timeframe. Upon review             
  and approval, the revised application can then be submitted to Grants                  
  Management for processing and issuing a notice of grant award.                         
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
93.890 HEALTHY COMMUNITIES ACCESS PROGRAM                                                
(HCAP) DEMONSTRATION AUTHORITY                                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                          
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Section 340(j).                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To assist Historically Black Health Professions Schools (HBHPSs) to: 1)                
  develop patient-based research infrastructure with any HCAP providers; 2)              


1530                                                                               11-08

  establish joint and collaborative programs of medical research and data
  collection between HBPHSs and such providers, whose goal is to improve the
  health status of medically underserved populations; or 3) support the research-
  related costs of patient care, data collection, and academic training resulting
  from affiliations with HCAP providers.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  None.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are HBHPSs, which have an affiliation, or affiliations with
  any HCAP provider identified in subsection (b)(1)(B) of Public Law 107-251 (a
  Federally Qualified Health Center, Public Health Department, Hospital with a
  low income utilization rate, and an interested public or private sector health care
  provider or organization that has traditionally served the medically uninsured
  and underserved). No new awards will be granted in FY 2005. The program
  will only award continuation funding to grantees that were previously funded,
  based on fund availability and progress toward achieving the goals and
  objectives that were approved under the grant.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  This program will benefit medically underserved populations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Primary
  Health Care. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Objective reviews are conducted by the Health Resources and Services
  Administration's (HRSA) Division of Independent Review. Non-competing
  continuation applications are reviewed by staff at HRSA's Bureau of Primary
  Health Care. Applications are reviewed for merit. Final award decisions are
  made by the Associate Administrator, of the Bureau of Primary Health Care.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Same as application procedure.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There are no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made annually. After awards are issued, funds are released in
  accordance with DHHS payment procedures, which may be through an
  Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cash Request System.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit an annual report that describes the utilization
  costs of services provided under the grant, and provide such other information as
  the Secretary determines appropriate. Financial status reports are required no
  later than 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final financial status and
  progress reports are due 90 days after the end of a project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records for a minimum of 3
  years after the end of a grant period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or
  other action involving the record has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. More detailed information regarding retention
