  requirements are provided in Title 45, CFR, Parts 74 and 92.                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not        
  reported.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $706,762 to $933,118.                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  HCAP Demonstration Project grants encourage HBHPS to examine the                    
  implementation of a patient-centered Care Model in HCAP consortia members,          
  focusing on the improvement of data collection designed to reduce health            
  disparities in minority populations. These populations include African              
  Americans, American Indians, Alaska Natives, Asian Americans, Hispanic              
  Americans, Native Hawaiians, Pacific Islanders and other medically underserved      
  populations (i.e., uninsured and underinsured populations). The program was         
  implemented and four grants were awarded to HBHPS in FY 05.                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and    
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,         
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.              
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Division of State and Community Assistance, Bureau of Primary Health Care,          
  Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of Health and              
  Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 15C-04, Rockville, MD 20857.                
  Telephone: (301) 594-4488.                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Grants Management Office: Oscar Tanner, Director, Division of Grants                
  Management, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of             
  Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16. Health Services          
  Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: Telephone:         
  (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-          
  3288.                                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.252, Healthy Communities Access Program.                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Charles R. Drew University of Medicine and Science focusing on Depression           
  Management; Faculty Development; and Clinical Information Systems.                  
  Morehouse School of Medicine focusing on Practiced Based Diabetes Screening         
  Pilot; and Improving Glycemic Control by Micro-Systems Changes in the               
  Process of Care Pilot. Meharry Medical College focusing on Clinical                 
  Information Systems and Faculty development. Hampton University School of           
  Nursing focusing on Primary Care Access for Adults; Pediatric Injury Prevention     
  Project; and Faculty Development.                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  No new grants will be awarded. The only awards that will be granted under this      
  program will be the non competing continuation HCAP Demonstration Project           
  grants for year two of their program. The criteria for the non-competing            
  continuation application will be announced in the Policy Information Notice.        
                                                                                      
93.891 ALCOHOL RESEARCH CENTER GRANTS                                                 
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                             
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Sections 301 and 464J; 42 U.S.C. 241         
  and 42 U.S.C. 285n-2.                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide long-term support for a concerted and multi-disciplinary research        
  effort into the problems of alcohol use and alcoholism by coordinating the          
  activities of investigators from biomedical, behavioral, and social science         
  disciplines around a basic research theme. An alcohol research center is            
  expected to realize its greater potential for contributing to the basic store of    
  knowledge about alcohol and alcoholism and to become a significant regional         
  and national resource.                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Alcohol research center grant funds may be used for support of core resources       
  including, for example, salaries of center personnel, services and facilities shared
  by center personnel, and program enrichment activities such as symposia.            
  Support for individual components may include staff salaries, supplies,             
  publication, travel and equipment. Funds may not be used for training, although     
  the applicant is required to demonstrate an institutional training capacity related 
  to alcohol. Funds may not be used for purchase of any land or the purchase,         
  construction, preservation or repair of any building, and grantees must have        
  sufficient laboratory facilities and reference services to carry out the grant.     


                                                                                 11-08
  Support will be provided for up to 5 years (renewable for subsequent periods) to
  qualifying centers selected for funding. No annual grant may exceed $2,000,000
  in total costs. The actual amount of support awarded will depend upon the
  appropriateness of the proposed center budget to the approved Center program,
  as well as the availability of funds.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local governments, any domestic (nonfederal) public or private
  nonprofit and for-profit institution may apply for a center grant. However, the
  proposed center must be affiliated with an institution, such as a university,
  medical center, or research center, that has the resources to sustain a long-term
  coordinated research program around a central theme related to problems of
  alcohol use and alcoholism. An applicant institution must demonstrate the
  ability to attract high quality scientists, from biomedical, behavioral, and social
  science disciplines, who are willing to make a long-term commitment to alcohol
  research. In addition, the applicant must assure that alcoholism related research
  and clinical training opportunities will be available.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public and private nonprofit and for-profit organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. For other grantees, costs will be determined in
  accordance with HHS Regulations 45 CFR Part 74, Subpart C, Section 74.27.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS must be used by grant
  applicants. This program is subject to 45 CFR Part 92 for State and local
  governments and Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations.
Award Procedure:
  Grants in support of approved applications are awarded directly to the applicant
  institution by the NIAAA.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines will be announced in specific Requests for Applications (RFA) to be
  published in the NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts. Contact Headquarters
  Office listed below for deadline dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The time from receipt of application to final action is approximately 9 to 10
  months.
Appeals:
  A principal investigator may appeal the substantive or procedural aspects of the
  review of his/her application to the staff of the Institute. A description of the
  NIH Peer Review Appeal procedures is available on the NIH home page
  www.nih.gov/grants/guide/1997/97.11.21/n2.html .
Renewals:
  Support is recommended for a specified project period of up to 5 years. Prior to
  termination of a project period, the grantee may apply for renewal of support for
  a new project period. An application for renewal is processed as a competing
  request.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The normal project period for an alcohol research center grant is 5 years.
  Grantees may apply for renewal of support on a competing basis. Within the
  project period, continuation applications must be submitted on a non-competing
  basis for each year of approved support. Payments will be made either on a
  Monthly Cash Request System or under an Electronic Transfer System.
  Necessary instructions for the appropriate type of payment will be issued shortly
  after an award is made.
Reports:
  Centers will be required to submit detailed annual progress reports (including
  substantive information about research results to date, status of ongoing
  research, research plans for the next year and any modifications in long-term
  research plans). Also, inventions reporting, financial status reports, final
  progress reports, and other reports are required to be filed in accordance with
  PHS policy.
Audits:
  Audits are to be carried out in accordance with the provisions set forth in 45
  CFR Part 74, Subpart C, Section 74.26 and in OMB Circular No. A-133, as
  appropriate. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are subject to
  inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal officials. In accordance with
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 24, 1997), "Audits
  of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities
  that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in Federal Awards will
  have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal
  entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from
  Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Records must be retained at least 3 years; records shall be retained beyond the 3-
  year period if audit findings have not been received.
Account Identification:
                                                                                  1531
