  Training Branch: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch:              
  (301) 443-3288.                                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.162, National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program; 93.164,              
  Indian Health Service Educational Loan Repayment; 93.364, Nursing Student          
  Loans.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Loan repayments for nursing education costs made to registered nurses working      
  full-time in health care facilities with a critical shortage of nurses.            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Funding preference is defined as the funding of a specific category of group of    
  approved applicants ahead of other categories or groups of approved applicants.    
  As provided in section 846(e) of the PHS Act, as amended, a funding preference     
  is given to eligible applicants with the greatest financial need. Awards are made  
  to the highest ranked applicants until funds are expended. Please review the       
  HRSA Preview or BCRS website at www.hrsa.gov for important information             
  regarding funding preferences.                                                     
                                                                                     
93.910 FAMILY AND COMMUNITY VIOLENCE                                                 
                                                                                     
PREVENTION PROGRAM                                                                   
   (Family Life Centers)                                                             
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                            
  SERVICES                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title XVII, Section 1707(e)(1), 42          
  U.S.C. 300u et seq.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To establish Family Life Centers on the campuses of 24 minority institutions of    
  higher education to: 1) assess local community resources for violence prevention   
  projects; 2) coordinate activities with existing violence prevention projects; 3)  
  design and implement educational interventions addressing interpersonal family     
  violence; and 4) design and implement a project to identify students from          
  dysfunctional families and support them with coping strategies.                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds will be used to support a cooperative agreement for a family and             
  community violence program to prevent minority related violence and improve        
  health and human services to minorities. Funds are not to be used for the          
  provision of health care services, construction, augmentation of ongoing Office    
  of Minority Health (OMH) supported demonstrations, or supplantation of             
  ongoing project activities.                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible Applicants: An institute of higher education representing 4-year          
  undergraduate institutions and a 2 year tribal college historically identified as  
  providing education primarily to minority students, or having a majority           
  enrollment of minority students.                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Minority families and communities will benefit.                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Proof of nonprofit status is required as part of the application submission.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program does not require any preapplication coordination. This program is     
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal       
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the    
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance if the State has selected 
  the program for review. When indicated in an individual program                    
  announcement, applications are subject to review in accordance with the            
  national Planning and Resources Development Act, Public Law 93.641 as              
  amended. For the technical assistance component of this program, when              
  indicated in individual program announcements, applications are eligible for       
  coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Application kits may be requested by calling (240) 453-8822 or writing to: Ms.     
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office        
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD               
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,          
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,           
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be         
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format         
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office      
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the           
                                                                                     
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from

                                                                                     
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications



                                                                                11-08
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS e-Grants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS e-Grants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov .
Award Procedure:
  Accepted applications will be reviewed by a review panel that will make
  recommendations on the technical merit based on the published criteria. After
  considering the recommendations of the panel. The Deputy Assistant Secretary
  for Minority Health makes final decisions to approve, hold, or reject individual
  grants or contracts. Applicants are notified regarding the final decision on each
  application and are furnished with a Notice of Grant Award for all projects
  approved.
Deadlines:
  To be considered for review, applications must be submitted by the established
  due date. Applications not meeting the deadline will be considered late and will
  be returned to the applicant unread.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 60 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The cooperative agreement will have a 4-year project period with 12-month
  budget periods. Following the initial budget period, continued funding is subject
  to the availability of funds and satisfactory program performance. Payments will
  be made either on a monthly cash request basis or under a letter of credit.
  Necessary instructions regarding payment procedure will be provided at the time
  the notice of grant award is issued.
Reports:
  Semi-annual progress reports are required for the cooperative agreement with
  final performance report due 90 days after the end of the project period.
  Financial status report is due 90 days after the end of the budget period with a
  final financial status report due no later than 90 days after the end of the project
  period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as note
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the grant shall be retained for a minimum of 3 years, or
  longer pending completion and resolution of any audit findings. Property records
  must be retained in accordance with Public Health Service Policy Statement
  requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0120-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Cooperative Agreements: $7,400,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 74 and 92. Specific program requirements are contained in the Federal
  Register Notice, the application instructions, and the PHS Grants Policy
  Statement.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Ms. Cynthia H. Amis, Director, Division of Program
  Operations, Office of Minority Health, Office of Public Health and Science,
                                                                                   1533
