  Office of the Secretary, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 700, Rockville, MD               
  20852. Telephone: (240) 453-8444. Grants Management Contact: Office of                
  Grants Management, Office of Public Health and Science, 1101 Wootton                  
  Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852, Telephone (240) 453-8822.                    
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.fcvp.org .                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  93.927, Health Centers Grants for Residents of Public Housing.                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  The following are examples of projects funded under the cooperative agreement:        
  1) A database and resource directory was developed on viable violence and             
  substance abuse services and resources; 2) A variety of education experiences         
  were provided to youth and families to assist them in making positive life style      
  choices and facilitating their educational pursuits; and 3) Community outreach        
  services were provided to neighborhoods.                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Complete review criteria are published in the Federal Register Notice or can be       
  obtained from the Program contact. Listed below are some criteria used to             
  review applications: 1) consistency of project's goals and objectives with the        
  Office of Minority Health's mission; 2) coherence and feasibility of methodology      
  and activities selected to address the problem as evidence in the proposed            
  implementation plan; 3) strength of proposed grant organization's management          
  capability; 4) adequacy of qualifications, experience and cultural competence of      
  proposed personnel; and 5) strength of analysis of potential impact or innovation     
  the project proposes to generate.                                                     
                                                                                        
93.912 RURAL HEALTH CARE SERVICES OUTREACH                                              
                                                                                        
AND RURAL HEALTH NETWORK DEVELOPMENT                                                    
PROGRAM                                                                                 
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                        
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,

                                                                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                        
  Health Care Safety Net Amendment, Public Law 107-251.

                                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                        
  To expand access to, coordinate, restrain the cost of, and improve the quality of

                                                                                        
  essential health services, including preventive and emergency services, through

                                                                                        
  the development of integrated health care delivery systems or networks in rural

                                                                                        
  areas and frontier regions.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                        
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).

                                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  All funds awarded are to be expended solely for carrying out the approved             
                                                                                        
  projects.

                                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  Rural Health Care Services Outreach and Rural Health Network Development

                                                                                        
  Programs: Rural public or nonprofit private entities that include three or more

                                                                                        
  health care providers that provide or support the delivery of health care services.

                                                                                        
  The administrative headquarters of the organization must be located in a rural

                                                                                        
  county or a rural zip code of an urban county; or an organization is constituted

                                                                                        
  exclusively to provide services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers in rural

                                                                                        
  areas and supported under Section 330G of the Public Health Service Act; or the

                                                                                        
  applicant is a Tribal government whose grant-funded activities will be conducted

                                                                                        
  within their Federally-recognized Tribal area. Small Health Care Provider

                                                                                        
  Quality Improvement Program This program is available to support rural

                                                                                        
  public, rural non-profit, or other providers of healthcare services, such as a

                                                                                        
  critical access hospital or rural health clinic. (1) The applicant must be located

                                                                                        
  in a rural area, as determined by eligible rural county or census tracts, and all

                                                                                        
  services must be provided in a rural county or census tract. To ascertain rural

                                                                                        
  eligibility, please refer to ftp://ftp.hrsa.gov/ruralhealth/Eligibility2005.pdf. This

                                                                                        
  website lists eligibility by county and census tract and includes a hyperlink to

                                                                                        
  the Federal Financial Institutions Examining Council's (FFIEC) Geocoding

                                                                                        
  System to determine your census tract number and eligibility. (2) The applicant

                                                                                        
  exists exclusively to provide services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers in

                                                                                        
  rural areas and is supported under Section 330G of the Public Health Service

                                                                                        
  Act. (3) The applicant is a Tribal government whose grant-funded activities will      
  be conducted within their Federally-recognized Tribal area (documentation of          
  status as a Federally-recognized Native American Tribe must be included).             
  Frontier Extended Stay Cooperative Agreement Program Rural public or                  
  nonprofit private entities that include three or more health care providers that      
  provide or support the delivery of health care services. The administrative           
  headquarters of the organization must be located in a rural county or a rural zip     
  code of an urban county; or an organization is constituted exclusively to provide     
  services to migrant and seasonal farmworkers in rural areas and supported under       
  Section 330G of the Public Health Service Act; or the applicant is a Tribal           
  government whose grant-funded activities will be conducted within their               
  Federally-recognized Tribal area. Delta States Rural Development Network              
  Grant Program. Rural public or nonprofit private entities that include three or       
  more health care providers that provide or support the delivery of health care

1534                                                                              11-08

  services. Eligible organizations must be rural public or rural private nonprofit
  entities located within a rural Delta county/parish.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Medically underserved populations in rural areas will receive expanded services
  in rural communities where they did not previously exist.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office of the
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Office of Rural Health.
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for
  awards.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by Federal and nonfederal experts in rural health care
  services development, coordination, and delivery. Applications are evaluated for
  merit and are recommended for approval or disapproval. Final decisions are
  made by the Director, Office of Rural Health Policy.
Deadlines:
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for deadline dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 6-9 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Rural Health Outreach and Rural Health Network awards may be made for up to
  3-year project periods. Subject to availability of funds, after initial awards,
  projects may be renewed non-competitively contingent upon submission and
  approval of an application, availability of appropriated funds, and awardee's
  satisfactory performance. Rural Health Network Planning Awards are only
  available for one year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There are no statutory formula or matching requirements for this program.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are made annually. Funds are available to grantees on an as needed basis
  throughout the budget period and payments are made through the Payment
  Management System.
Reports:
  A performance progress report is submitted with each noncompeting
  continuation application. A financial status report is to be submitted within 90
  days after the close of the budget period. A final Program report is to be
  submitted within 90 days after the close of the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $25,088,433; FY 08 est $25,831,745; and FY 09 est
  $25,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  A maximum of $150,000 for the first year of funding for the Outreach Grant; A
  maximum of $180,000 for the first year of funding for the Network
  Development Grant. A maximum of $85,000 for funding for the Network
  Development Planning Grant.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  For the Outreach Program, in FY 07, a total of 122 awards were made; in FY
  08, there will be 92 non-competitive awards. For the Network Development
  Grant Program, in FY 07, there were a total of 38 grants. In FY 08 there will be a
