  This program establishes State Offices of Rural Health in each State. A few of      
  the projects in State Offices of Rural Health include: 1) Providing technical       
  assistance to rural communities seeking to develop or improve primary health        
  care; 2) training community leaders and providers of health services so that they   
  may better respond to the needs of their rural clientele; and 3) taking lead roles  
  in drafting, obtaining, and implementing the rural physician loan repayment         
  program to increase the likelihood of recruiting physicians to remote rural area.   
  In general, these projects tend to address problems and issues unique to their      
  particular State, therefore, projects cover a broad range of activities.            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Grant applications will be evaluated on the basis of the following criteria: (1)    
  The extent to which the application is responsive to the requirements and           
  purposes of the program; (2) the extent to which the applicant has developed        
  measurable goals, objectives, and an evaluation plan for the required, and any      
  discretionary, activities; (3) the extent to which the Office is coordinated with,  
  and has the cooperation of, other health entities and activities within the State;  
  (4) the strength of the applicant's plans for administrative and financial          
  management of the Office; (5) the reasonableness of the budget proposed for the     
  Office; and (6) the likelihood that the Office will be continued after Federal      
  grant support is completed.                                                         
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.914 HIV EMERGENCY RELIEF PROJECT GRANTS                                            
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Title XXVI, Part A, as amended, Public Law 109-          
  415; Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006.                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide direct financial assistance to eligible metropolitan areas (EMAs) and    
  Transitional Grant Areas (TGAs) that have been the most severely affected by        
  the Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) epidemic to develop, organize and            
  operate programs that provide an effective, appropriate and cost efficient          
  continuum of health care and support services for the individuals and families      
  with HIV disease.                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds received under a grant are to be used to fund 75 percent core medical         
  services and 25 percent support services. Core medical services include:            
  outpatient and ambulatory health services, AIDS Drug Assistance Program,            
  AIDS, pharmaceutical assistance, oral health care, early intervention services,     
  medical nutritional therapy, substance abuse treatment and mental health            
  treatment, medical case management, including treatment and adherence               
  services. Support services for individuals with HIV/AIDS to achieve medical         
  outcomes (such as respite care for persons caring for individuals with              
  HIV/AIDS, outreach services, medical transportation, linguistic services and        
  referral for health care and support services). A percentage of the grant,          
  determined by the percentage of women, infants, and children in the area with       
  Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome, will be used to provide health and             
  support services to infants, children, and women with HIV disease, including        
  treatment measures to prevent the perinatal transmission of HIV. No more than       
  10 percent of amounts received under a grant may be used to fund grant              
  administration and monitoring activities, program support activities and all        
  activities associated with grantee contract award procedures. Funds may not be      
  used to supplant or replace the resources of such institutional providers that are  
  already devoted to the support of personnel providing HIV-related services.         
  Funds may not be used to purchase or improve land, or to purchase, construct or     
  make permanent improvement to any building except for minor remodeling.             
  Funds may not be used to make payments to recipients of services.                   
                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

  Eligible metropolitan areas (EMA) with a population of 50,000 or more               
  individuals for which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has            
  reported a cumulative total of more than 2,000 HIV/AIDS cased for the most          
  recent period of 5 calendar years period. EMAs include: Atlanta, Georgia;           
  Baltimore, Maryland; Boston, Massachusetts; Chicago, Illinois; Dallas, Texas;       
                                                                                      
  Detroit, Michigan, Ft. Lauderdale, Florida; Houston, Texas; Los Angeles,

                                                                                      
  California; Miami, Florida; New Orleans, Louisiana; New York, New York;

                                                                                      
  Newark, New Jersey; Orlando, Florida; Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Phoenix,

                                                                                      
  Arizona; San Diego, California; San Francisco, California; San Juan, Puerto         
  Rico; Tampa-St. Petersburg, Florida; Washington, DC; and West Palm Beach,           
  Florida. Transitional Grant areas (TGA) with a population of 50,000 or more         
  individuals for which the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has            
  reported a cumulative total of at least 1,000, but not more than 1,999 HIV/AIDS     
  cases for the more most recent five year period. TGAs include: Austin, Texas;       
  Bergen-Passaic, Caguas, Puerto Rico; Cleveland, Ohio; Denver, Colorado;             
  Dutchess County, New York; Fort Worth, Texas; Hartford, Connecticut;                
  Jacksonville, Florida; Jersey City, New Jersey; Kansas City, Missouri; Las          
  Vegas, Nevada; Middlesex, New Jersey; Minneapolis, Minnesota;



1536                                                                            11-08

  Nassau/Suffolk Counties, New York; New Haven, Connecticut; Norfolk,
  Virginia; Oakland, California; Orange County, California; Ponce, Puerto Rico;
  Portland, Oregon; Riverside-San Bernardino, California; Sacramento,
  California; St. Louis, Missouri; San Antonio, Texas; San Jose, California; Santa
  Rosa, California; Seattle, Washington; and Vineland, New Jersey.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals and families with HIV disease will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of HIV/AIDS.
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for
  awards.
Award Procedure:
  Applications will undergo an internal review process for funds awarded under
  Section 2603(a)(3). For funds awarded under Section 2603(b), applications will
  be reviewed by an Objective Grant Review Committee composed of
  representatives from various Department of Health and Human Services
  agencies, as well as outside reviewers that are experts in the field of HIV
  services planning and service delivery. Grants will be awarded to eligible
  metropolitan areas.
Deadlines:
  http://www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 60 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for a 12-month budget period.
Reports:
  Annual progress and annual financial reports are required. Annual reports are to
  be submitted within 90 days after the end of each budget period. The final
  performance report and final financial status reports are due 90 days from the
  end of the project period. Reports documenting services and costs will also be
  required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  year period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $587,425,500; FY 08 est $549,905,180; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $875,000 to $102,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 06, 51 non-competing continuation awards were made and in FY 07 and
  FY 08, 56 non-competing applications were made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
