  Douglas Morgan, Director, Division of Service Systems, HIV/AIDS Bureau,           
  Health Resources and Services Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 7A-         
  55, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6745.                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants              
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,              
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.          
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)       
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                    
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.hrsa.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  93.917, HIV Care Formula Grants.                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Programs were funded to deliver or enhance HIV-related outpatient and             
  ambulatory health and support services, including case management and             
  comprehensive treatment services for individual and families with HIV disease     
  and inpatient case management services.                                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Applications must meet seven criteria set forth in the enacting legislation: (1)  
  Contain a report concerning the dissemination of emergency relief funds and the   
  plan for utilization of such funds; (2) document demonstrate need in such area    
  for supplemental financial assistance to combat the HIV epidemic; (3)             
  demonstrate the existing commitment of local resources of the area, both          
  financial and in-kind, to combat the HIV epidemic; (4) demonstrate the ability    
  of the area to utilize such supplemental financial resources in a manner that is  
  immediately responsive and cost-effective; (5) demonstrate that resources will be 
  allocated in accordance with the local demographic incidence of AIDS including    
  appropriate allocations for services for infants, children, women, and families   
  with HIV disease; (6) demonstrate the inclusiveness of the planning council       
  membership, with particular emphasis on affected communities and individuals      
  with HIV disease; and (7) demonstrate the manner in which proposed services       
  are consistent with the local needs assessment and the statewide coordinated      
  statement of need.                                                                
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
93.917 HIV CARE FORMULA GRANTS                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Public Health Service Act, Title XXVI, Part B, as amended, Public Law 106-        
  415, Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006.                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To enable States to improve the quality, availability, and organization of health 
  care and support services for individuals and families with Human                 
  Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) disease.                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Formula Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funds received under a grant are to be used to fund 75 percent core medical       
  services and 25 percent support services. Core medical services include:          
  outpatient and ambulatory health services, AIDS Drug Assistance Program,          
  AIDS, pharmaceutical assistance, oral health care, health insurance premium,      
  home health care; home and community-based health services, early intervention    
  services, medical nutritional therapy, substance abuse treatment and mental       
  health treatment, medical case management, including treatment and adherence      
  services. Support services for individuals with HIV/AIDS to achieve medical       
  outcomes (such as respite care for persons caring for individuals with            
  HIV/AIDS, outreach services, medical transportation, linguistic services and      
  referral for health care and support services). Funds may be used to establish and
  operate HIV Care Consortia within areas most affected by HIV disease that shall   
  be designed to provide a comprehensive continuum of care to individuals and       
  families with HIV disease; provide home and community-based care services for     
  individuals with HIV disease; provide assistance to assure the continuity of      
  health insurance coverage for individuals with HIV disease; and provide           
  therapeutics to treat HIV disease to individuals with HIV disease. A State shall  
  use a percentage of the grant, determined by the percentage of infants, children, 
  and women with acquired immune deficiency syndrome in the State, to provide       
  health and support services to infants, children, and women with HIV disease,     
  including treatment measures to prevent the perinatal transmission of HIV.        
  Funds may not be used to purchase or improve land, or to purchase, construct or   
  make permanent improvement to any building except for minor remodeling.           
  Funds may not be used to make payments to recipients of services. A State may     
  not use more than 10 percent of amounts received under this grant for             
  administration, planning and evaluation activities. If a State receives the       
  minimum allotment, it may not use more than the amount required to support        
  one full-time equivalent employee for these activities. Seventy-five (75) percent 
  of grant funds must be obligated within 120 days of the budget period start date. 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              


                                                                               11-08
  All 50 States of the United States, and the District of Columbia and U.S.
  Territories (and possessions) of the United States, the Commonwealths of Puerto
  Rico, Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands,
  Guam, American Samoa and the Republic of the Marshall Islands, Federated
  States of Micronesia, the Republic of Palau.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals and families with HIV disease.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of HIV/AIDS.
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for
  awards.
Award Procedure:
  Applications will undergo an internal review process. Grants will be awarded to
  States who prepare and submit an application containing the required
  documents.
Deadlines:
  http://www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Yes.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  All States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, and
  U.S. territories are eligible to receive Title II grants. All Title II grants are
  determined by formula. The grant amount is determined by multiplying the
  amount appropriated for Title II, less any set-asides, by the distribution factor
  determined for the State or territory. This distribution factor is comprised of two
  components that are added together. The first component, the State Distribution
  Factor, is determined by dividing the estimated number of living AIDS cases for
  the State or territory by the estimated number of living AIDS cases for all States
  and territories and multiplying the result by .75. The second component, the
  Non-EMA Distribution Factor, is determined by dividing the estimated living
  AIDS cases in the State or territory but outside of EMAs within that State or
  territory by the sum of all estimated living AIDS cases within States or territories
  but outside EMAs/TGAs within States or territories and multiplying the result by
  .20 plus .5 of State or territory share of HIV/AIDS cases from states with no
  EMAs/TGAs. There is no minimum grant amount of $50,000 for U.S.
  territories. To achieve this minimum grant amount, funds are redistributed from
  other States and territories in proportion to their distribution factors. In addition,
  States and territories receive the greater of the formula amount, considering the
  minimum grant amount, or an amount equal to a set statutory percentage of the
  amount the State or territory received in fiscal year 1996. To achieve this
  minimum grant amount, funds are redistributed from other States in proportion
  to their distribution factors. The proportion of the funds allocated within a State
  or territory to provide services to infants, children and women must be at least
  equal to the proportion of infants, children and women with AIDS in the State or
  territory to the population of individuals with AIDS in the State or territory.
  Matching funds are required from States with more than one percent of the total
  U.S. AIDS cases reported to the CDC during the previous 2 years.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for a 12-month budget period.
Reports:
  Semiannual progress reports are required. The Financial Status Report is due 90
  days following the end of each budget period. An interim financial status report
  is due for the current budget period showing 75 percent obligation of the FY
  awards (5 months of the budget period start date). A final progress report and
  expenditure report are due 120 days after budget period end date.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
                                                                                     1537
