  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going            
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely   
  resolved.

Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,104,710,500; FY 08 $1,103,104,015; and FY 09 est not              
  available.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $50,000 to $171,786,592; $17,963,976.                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In FY 06, FY 07 and 08 59 awards were to be made.                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and    
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,         
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as           
  applicable.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Douglas Morgan, Director, Division of Service Systems, HIV/AIDS Bureau,             
  Health Resources and Services Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 7A-           
  55, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone:           
  (301) 443-6745.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants                
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,                
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.            
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)         
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.hrsa.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.914, HIV Emergency Relief Project Grants.                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Programs were funded to establish and operate HIV care consortia to provide a

                                                                                      
  continuum of care to individuals and families with HIV disease; provide home

                                                                                      
  and community based care services; provide drug treatment; and provide

                                                                                      
  assistance to assure the community of health insurance coverage.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  Grants will be awarded to applicants that submit; (1) An acceptable detailed

                                                                                      
  description of the HIV-related services provided in the State to individuals and

                                                                                      
  families with HIV disease during the year preceding the year for which the grant

                                                                                      
  is requested, and the number of individuals and families receiving such services;

                                                                                      
  (2) a comprehensive plan for the organization and delivery of HIV health care

                                                                                      
  and support services to be funded with assistance received under this part that

                                                                                      
  shall include a description of the purposes for which the State intends to use

                                                                                      
  such assistance; (3) an assurance that the public health agency administering the   
  grant for the State will periodically convene a meeting of individuals with HIV,    
  representatives of grantees receiving both HIV Emergency Relief and HIV             
  CARE Grants, providers, and public agency representatives to develop a              
  statewide coordinated statement of need; and (4) an assurance by the State that;    
  (A) the public health agency that is administering the grant for the State will     
  conduct public hearings concerning the proposed use and distribution of the         
  assistance to be received; and (B) the State will (a) to the maximum extent         
  practicable, ensure that HIV-related health care and support services delivered     
  pursuant to a program established with assistance provided under this part will     
  be provided without regard to the ability of the individual to pay for such         
  services and without regard to the current or past health condition of the          
  individual with HIV disease; (b) ensure that such services will be provided in a    
  setting that is accessible to low-income individuals with HIV disease; (c)          
  provide outreach to low-income individuals with HIV disease to inform such          
  individuals of the services available; (d) for continuum of health insurance        
  coverage, submit a plan to the Secretary that demonstrates that the State has       
  established a program that assures that (1) Such amounts will be targeted to        
  individuals who would not otherwise be able to afford health insurance              
  coverage; and (2) income, asset, and medical expense criteria will be established   
  and applied by the State to identify those individuals who qualify for assistance   
  under such program, and information concerning such criteria shall be made          
  available to the public; (e) the State will provide for periodic independent peer   
  review to assess that quality and appropriateness of health and support services    
  provided by entities that receive funds from the State; (f) the State will permit   
  and cooperate with any Federal investigations undertaken regarding programs;        
  (g) the State will maintain HIV-related activities at a level that is equal to not  
  less than the level of such expenditures by the State for the 1-year period         
  preceding the fiscal year for which the State is applying to receive a grant; and   
  (h) the State will ensure that grant funds are not utilized to make payments for    
  any item or service to the extent that payment has been made.                       
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      


1538                                                                            11-08

93.918 GRANTS TO PROVIDE OUTPATIENT EARLY
INTERVENTION SERVICES WITH RESPECT TO HIV
DISEASE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title XXVI, Part C, as amended, Public Laws 106-
  345, 109-415, Ryan White Care Act Amendments of 2000 HIV/AIDS Treatment
  Modernization Act of 2006.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase the capacity of entities that provide comprehensive primary care
  services to persons with Human Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) infection, or
  who are at-risk of infection, and to offer more early intervention services. The
  services will include increased counseling and testing, partner involvement in
  risk reduction, transmission prevention, appropriate primary care diagnostic and
  treatment services, and, as needed, case-management to ensure that individual
  service needs are met. A capacity development program provides assistance to
  organizations wishing to develop an expanded HIV program, particularly in rural
  and underserved areas and communities of color.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Applications should be designed to improve the availability, accessibility and
  organization of ambulatory health services to persons infected with HIV or who
  are at high risk. Funds may not be used for acquiring property, used for inpatient
  or residential care, and no more than 10 percent of the Federal funds may be
  used for administrative costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are public and private nonprofit entities that are: federally
  qualified health centers under Section 1905(1)(2)(B) of the Social Security Act;
  grantees under Section 1001 (regarding family planning ) other than States;
  comprehensive hemophilia diagnostic and treatment centers; rural health clinics;
  health facilities operated by or pursuant to a contract with the Indian Health
  Service; community based organizations, clinics, hospitals and other health
  facilities that provide early intervention services to those persons infected with
  HIV/AIDS through intravenous drug use; or nonprofit private entities that
  provide comprehensive primary care services to populations at-risk of
  HIV/AIDS, including faith-based and community-based organizations. Capacity
  development grants require that applicants be public or private non-profit
  organizations that are or intend to become HIV Primary Care Providers.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Persons infected with HIV or who are at high risk of HIV infection.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of HIV/AIDS.
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for
  awards.
Award Procedure:
  After approval by the Associate Administrator, the Division of Grants
  Management Operations prepares a Notice of Grant Award and issues the award.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 120-180 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula for the amount of the grant. The amount
  is negotiated based on costs of the proposed grant activities. Grantees are not
  required to match Federal funds under the grant; however, the level of
  nonfederal expenditures for early intervention services must be maintained at the
  level for the year prior to the grant award.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
