  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from Mr. Carlos      
  Smiley in the Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office,             
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30341. Telephone:     
  (770) 488-2754. This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR 92 for         
  State and local governments. The standard application forms, as furnished by       
  PHS and required by 45 CFR 92 must be used for this program.                       
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  After review and approval, a notice of award is prepared and processed, along      
  with appropriate notification to the public.                                       
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From three to four months.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Information on renewals may be obtained from the Ms. Nealean Austin, Grants        
  Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants               
  Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30341;             
  Telephone: (770) 488-2722.                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  States, tribes and territories are required to make available nonfederal           
  contributions (cash or in- kind) toward such costs in an amount equal to not less  
  than $1 for each $3 of Federal funds provided in the cooperative agreement.        
  Such contributions may be made directly or through donations from public or        
  private entities. Payment for treatment services or the donation of treatment      
  services may not be used for nonfederal contributions. States, tribes and          
  territories may include only nonfederal contributions in excess of the average     
  amount of nonfederal contributions made by the State, tribe or territory for the   
  two year period preceding the first fiscal year for which the State, tribe or      
  territory is applying to receive a cooperative agreement for a comprehensive       
  breast and cervical cancer early detection program.                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  From one to five years. Budget period is 12 months. Assistance is awarded          
  through the SMARTLINK II System.                                                   
Reports:                                                                             
  A progress report and revised timeliness for objectives are required periodically.

  Financial status reports are required no later than 90 days after the end of each

  budget period. Final financial status report and final performance report are

                                                                                     
  required 90 days after the end of the project.                                     
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                     
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                     
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are

                                                                                     
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government

                                                                                     
  officials.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other

                                                                                     
  records pertinent to the cooperative agreement program shall be retained for a

                                                                                     
  minimum of three years, or until completion and resolution of any audit in

                                                                                     
  process or pending resolution. In all cases, records must be retained in

                                                                                     
  accordance with PHS Grants Policy Statement requirements.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  75-0943-0-1-550.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

  (Grants including financial assistance and direct assistance) FY 07 est            
  158,085,587; and FY 08 est $158,085,587; and FY09 est $158,085,600.                
                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $145,000 to $8,400,000; $2,100,000.                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal year 2005, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC)          
  entered into the fifteenth year of the National Breast and Cervical Cancer Early   
  Detection Program (NBCCEDP). This landmark program brings critical breast          
  and cervical cancer screening services to underserved women, including older       
  women, women with low income, and women of racial and ethnic minority              
  groups. CDC supports early detection programs in all 50 States, 4 U.S.             
  territories, the District of Columbia, and 13 American Indian/Alaska Native        
  organizations. Similar activity is anticipated in fiscal years 2006 and 2007.      
                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  There are no regulations, but guidelines are available. PHS Grants Policy          
  Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000, applies to cooperative           
  agreements. Public Law 101-354 (August 10, 1994) places specific requirements      
  on monies from this law which are to be used for funding State-based breast and    
                                                                                     
1540                                                                           11-08

  cervical cancer early detection programs.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Ms. Faye L. Wong, Chief, Program Services Branch, Division of Cancer
  Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and
  Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Public Health
  Service, 4770 Buford Highway, NE., Mailstop K57, Atlanta, Georgia 30341.
  Telephone: (770) 488-46427. Grants Management Contact: Nealean Austin,
  Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and
  Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine
  Road, Room 3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2722.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov/cancer.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In addition to providing screening and follow up for low income women, State
  health agencies incorporate into their health care system: (1) Public Education:
  (a) population targeted for screening and follow up services; (b) for women
  (other than low income) requiring periodic screening and follow up services; (2)
  Professional Education: (a) practitioners providing screening and follow up
  services for targeted low income women; (b) for all practitioners who will
  provide or refer women (other than low income) for required periodic screening
  and follow up services; (3) quality assurance: (a) mammography; (b) cervical
  cytology; (4) surveillance: (a) breast and cervical cancer incidence registry; (b)
  tracking and follow up system; (5) evaluation: (a) implementation of all program
  components; (b) Effectiveness of all program components; and (6) breast and
  cervical cancer control plan and coalition.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Extent of disease burden and need; (2) feasibility and appropriateness of
  operational plan to meet the purpose of the cooperative agreement; (3) the extent
  of collaboration and community involvement; (4) the extent to which the
  applicant appears likely to succeed in implementing proposed objectives; (5) the
  appropriateness of nonfederal contributions; and (6) the extent to which the
  budget is reasonable, consistent with the intended use of cooperative agreement
  funds, and includes evidence of the State's commitment to the program
  application of financial and/or in-kind contributions from nonfederal sources to
  activities of the proposed program.
93.923 DISADVANTAGED HEALTH PROFESSIONS
FACULTY LOAN REPAYMENT (FLRP) AND MINORITY
FACULTY FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM (MFFP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 738(b), 42 U.S.C. 293, as
  amended; Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law
  105-392.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of the Minority Faculty Fellowship Program is to assist eligible
  entities in increasing the number of underrepresented minority faculty at health
  professions schools. The applicant school shall demonstrate its ability to: (1)
  identify, recruit, and select under-represented minority individuals who have
  potential for teaching, administration, or conducting research at health
  professions schools; (2) provide such individuals with the skills necessary to
  enable them to: (a) secure a tenured faculty position, or its equivalent, according
  to the policies of the school; (b) learn pedagogical skills and program
  administration; (c) design and conduct research; (d) write grants; and (e) prepare
  articles prepare articles suitable for publication in peer reviewed journals; (3)
  provide services designed to assist such individuals in their preparation for an
  academic career, including provision of counselors; and 4) enable the fellow to
  provide health services to rural and/or medically underserved populations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  FLRP - Funds will be used to repay qualifying health professions educational
  loans consisting of principal and interest on loans incurred by the applicant
  while enrolled in a school in return for serving a minimum of least 2 years as a
  full-time or part-time faculty member at one of the following accredited health
  profession schools: medicine, nursing, osteopathic medicine, dentistry,
  pharmacy, podiatric medicine, optometry, veterinary medicine, public health, or
  a school that offers a graduate program in clinical psychology, and certain allied
  health programs. MFFP - To be able to receive an MFFP grant under section 738
  (b) of the Public Health Service Act, an entity should provide an assurance in the
  application that: (1) Amounts received under the grant will be used to award a
  fellowship to the individual only if the individual meets the requirements
  outlined in the Fellow Eligibility Criteria. (2) Each fellowship award will include
