  a stipend in an amount not exceeding 50 percent of the regular salary of a faculty 
  member not to exceed 3 years of training; an allowance for other expenses such     
  as travel to professional meetings and costs related to specialized training.      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  FLRP - Individuals from disadvantaged backgrounds who (1) have a degree in         
  medicine, osteopathic medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, podiatric medicine,           
  optometry, veterinary medicine, nursing, graduate public health, selected allied   
  health or graduate behavioral and mental health; (2) are enrolled in an approved   
  graduate training program in one of the health professions listed above; (3) are   
  enrolled as full-time students in accredited institutions described above and in   
  the final course of study or program leading to a degree from the institution.     
  MFFP - Eligible applicants are accredited health profession schools of allopathic  
  and osteopathic medicine, nursing, dentistry, veterinary medicine, optometry,      
  allied health, public health, podiatric medicine, pharmacy, and schools offering   
  graduate programs in behavioral and mental health. To be eligible to receive the   
  grant the applicant shall: (1) Provide assurance that such applicant will make     
  available (directly through cash donations) $1 for every $1l of Federal funds      
  received under section 738 of the Public Health Service Act. (2) provide an        
  assurance that institutional support will be provided for the individual for the   
  second and third year at a level that is equal to the total amount of institutional
  funds provided in the year in which the grant or contract was awarded. (3)         
  provide an assurance that the individual that will receive the fellowship will be a
  member of the faculty of the applicant school. (4) provide an assurance that the   
  individual that will receive the fellowship will have, at a minimum, appropriate   
  advanced preparation (such as a master's or doctor degree) and special skills      
  necessary to enable such individuals to teach and practice.                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  FLRP - Individuals who are from disadvantaged backgrounds. MFFP -                  
  Fellowship recipients must meet the following conditions: (1) Must fall under      
  the definition of underrepresented minority individuals' (URM). URM is defined     
  as racial and ethnic populations who are under-represented in the designated       
  health profession discipline relative to the number of individuals who are         
  members of the population involved. This definition would include Black or         
  African American, American Indian or Alaska Native, Native Hawaiian or Other       
  Pacific Islander, Hispanic or Latino, and any Asian other than Chinese, Filipino,  
  Japanese, Korean, Asian Indian or Thai. (2) the fellow must be a U.S. citizen,     
  non-citizen national, or foreign national who possesses a visa permitting          
  permanent residence in the United States, except in the case of programs           
  specifically designed for support of foreign nationals. Individuals on temporary   
  or student visas are not eligible to receive PHS fellowship or training grant      
  support.                                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be     
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find    
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health            
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final           
  selections for awards.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  FLRP - FLRP awards are based on a percentage of the eligible applicant's total     
  debt. Payments are made to individuals via electronic direct deposit. MFFP -       
  Based upon the availability of funds, notice of awards are issued to the eligible  
  schools which in turn distribute the awards to the fellow(s).                      
                                                                                     
Deadlines:

  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Two to three months after application due date.                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Applicants must: (1) provide assurance that such applicant will make available     
  (directly through cash donations) $1 for every $1 of Federal funds received        
  under section 738 of the Public Health Service Act; (2) provide an assurance       
  that institutional support will be provided for the individual for the second and  
  third year at a level that is equal to the total amount of institutional funds     
  provided in the year in which the grant or contract was awarded; (3) provide an    
  assurance that the individual who will receive the fellowship will be a member     
  of the faculty of the applicant school; and (4) provide an assurance that the      
  individual who will receive the fellowship will have, at a minimum, appropriate    
  advanced preparation (such as a master's or doctoral degree) and special skills    
  necessary to enable such individuals to teach and practice.                        


                                                                                11-08
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  FLRP - Assistance is availabe during the time specified in the contract. MFFP
  support is limited to a 3-year project period.
Reports:
  FLRP recipients are required to annually provide documentation demonstrating
  that funds were used to repay educational loans. The employing health
  professions school must complete and submit a semi- annual certification that
  the participating faculty has engaged in a position at the institution. The
  certification includes an endorsement by an appropriate official of the facility.
  MFFP applicants are required to submit a Uniformed Progress Report annually
  to the Division of Health Careers Diversity and Development.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  Appropriation 7580350. CAN 08-3765518.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $108,786; FY 08 $54,477; and FY 09 est $200,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 07, the range was $53,313 to $55,473, with an average award of $54,393.
  In FY 08, there will be 1 competing award issued, for $54,477. In FY 09, the
  estimated average for 4 awards will be $50,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  There were 2 non-competing continuation awards made in FY 07. There will be
  1 competing award issued in FY 08.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Stuart Weiss, Acting Chief, Diversity Branch, Division of Diversity and
  Interdisciplinary Education, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources
  and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 9-36, 5600 Fishers
  Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-5644.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  FLRP - Awards were made to encourage individuals from disadvantaged
  backgrounds to go into teaching. MFFP - The purpose of the Minority Faculty
  Fellowship Program (MFFP) is to assist eligible entities in increasing the number
  of underrepresented minority faculty at health professional schools.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Overview: The health professions school should provide information that
  adequately documents the need and data relative to the school's experience and
  ability to identify, recruit, select and train underrepresented minority faculty. In
  addition to teaching, acquiring administrative skills and conducting research, the
  fellow must also provide health care services, especially as a means of meeting
  community needs for reducing barriers to health care services to rural or under-
  served populations. The application should also include a discussion of how the
  development of underrepresented minority faculty, through use of the fellowship
  program, will enhance the participant's academic career potential and
  community service abilities. Review Criteria are used to review and rank
  applications. The Minority Faculty Fellowship Program has 6 review criteria:
  Need: This includes the extent to which the application describes the problem
  (e.g., lack of Minority Faculty) and associated factors contributing to this
  problem. Faculty Recruitment: This includes the extent to which the school
  demonstrates that it has the commitment and ability to identify, recruit, and
  select underrepresented minority individuals who have the potential for teaching,
  administration, and/or conducting research at a health professions institution.
  Faculty Development: This includes the extent to which the school's faculty
                                                                                   1541
