  training program will provide the fellow with the preparation, training, and skills   
  needed to secure a tenured faculty position. The Faculty Development Plan             
  should include the provision of counselors and protected time for research and        
  faculty development. Training may include: pedagogical skills, including              
  teaching experience; program administration; grant writing; research methods          
  and design; and preparation of articles suitable for publication in peer reviewed     
  journals. Impact: Faculty Training in Providing Health Service: This includes         
  the extent to which the Fellow is available to provide health services to rural or    
  medically underserved populations. Resources/Capabilities: This includes the          
  extent to which project personnel are qualified by training and/or experience to      
  implement and carry out projects. This includes the capabilities of the applicant     
  organization; and the quality and availability of facilities and personnel to fulfill 
  the needs and requirements of the proposed project. Support Requested: This           
  includes the extent to which the overall budget, including non-trainee expenses,      
  is cost effective, reasonable, and consistent with the stated objectives and          
  proposed activities. Expenditures are well justified and in-kind contributions are    
  documented. Evaluative Measures: Describe the methodology that will be used           
  to monitor and evaluate the project results. Evaluative measures must be able to      
  assess the extent to which the program objectives have been met.                      
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
93.924 RYAN WHITE HIV/AIDS DENTAL                                                       
REIMBURSEMENTS\COMMUNITY BASED DENTAL                                                   
PARTNERSHIP                                                                             
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                         
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Public Health Service Act, Title XXVI, Part F, as amended, Public Law 109-            
  415, Ryan White Care HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006.106-                
  345, Ryan White Care Act Amendments of 2000.                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  Dental Reimbursement compensate dental schools, postdoctoral dental education         
  programs, and dental hygiene education programs for unreimbursed costs they           
  have incurred in providing oral health services to patients with Human                
  Immunodeficiency Virus or Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome                         
  (HIV/AIDS). Reimbursement will be made for documenting the number of                  
  patients with HIV/AIDS treated and uncompensated costs incurred providing             
  oral health services to them. Community Based Dental Partnership aims to              
  increase access to oral health care services for HIV positive individuals, while at   
  the same time providing education and clinical training for dental and hygiene        
  providers, located in community-based settings. This is achieved through multi-       
  partner collaborations between dental and dental hygiene education programs           
  and community-based dentist and dental clinics, marked by shared expertise and        
  resources.                                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Funds are restricted to dental schools, postdoctoral dental education programs,       
  and dental hygiene education programs which submit an application                     
  documenting unreimbursed costs of oral health care provided to patients with          
  HIV/AIDS.                                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Public or private nonprofit schools of dentistry and dental hygiene, and              
  accredited post-graduate dental training programs, located in the 50 United           
  States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the                
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam,               
  American Samoa or the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the             
  Marshall Islands and the Republic of Palau.                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Persons living with HIV/AIDS infection.                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued                
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be        
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                              
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from           
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find       
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be     
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                    
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of HIV/AIDS.            
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for            
  awards.                                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Funds will be allocated to eligible applicants based upon level of uncompensated      
  care provided.                                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                              
  www.hrsa.gov .

1542                                                                              11-08

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 120-180 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funds are awarded taking into consideration the unreimbursed oral health care
  costs for patients with HIV/AIDS incurred by each institution, as compared with
  unreimbursed oral health care costs for patients with HIV/AIDS incurred by all
  eligible applicants, and the amount of funds available to award.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Reimbursement of uncompensated costs incurred in the prior year. Community-
  Based Dental Partnership grants may be made for up to five-year project periods.
  Continued support beyond the first year is contingent upon satisfactory
  performance and the availability of Federal funds.
Reports:
  Community-Based Dental Partnership grantees must submit: an annual Dental
  Services (Data) Report, covering the prior January 1 - December 31 calendar
  year; a Financial Status Report on SF 269 within 90 days after the end of each
  budget period; and a non-competing continuation application each year prior to
  the end of the budget period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  year period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $9,328,165; FY 08 est $9,198,395; and FY 09 est
  $9,198,395. (Grants) Community-Based Dental Partnership grants: FY 07
  $3,319,803; FY 08 est $3,319,803; and FY 09 est $3,319,803.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Dental Reimbursement: $1,439 to $1,143,261; $154,796. Community-Based
  Dental Partnership grants: $184,748 to $403,042; $277,713.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, 65 dental reimbursement awards were made.. In FY 07, 12
  Community-Based Dental Partnership programs were funded, supporting oral
  health care to more than 2700 HIV positive patients.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Dora Ober, Division of Community Based Programs, HIV/AIDS Bureau, Health
  Resources and Services Administration, Parklawn Building, Room 7A-30, 5600
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-0759.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funds were awarded to eligible dental schools and post-doctoral dental
  education programs for reimbursement of uncompensated costs of oral health
  care and the number of HIV positive patients treated during the prior year.
  Community-Based Dental Partnership grants fund collaborative partnerships
  between dental and dental hygiene education programs and community-based
  dental providers and organizations.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Those dental schools, postdoctoral dental education programs and dental
  hygiene education programs, that submit applications documenting
  unreimbursed costs of oral health care provided to patients with HIV/AIDS and
  show evidence of efforts to establish working relations with HIV care consortia
