  and planning councils, AIDS Education and Training Centers, Title I, Title II,     
  III, IV, Community-Based Dental Partnership, and Special Projects of National      
  Significance programs authorized under Public Law 109-415. Applicants for the      
  Community Based Dental Partnership are reviewed by an objective review             
  committee based on the following criteria: Need, Response, Evaluative              
  Measures, Impact, Resources/Capabilities, and Support Requested.                   
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
93.925 SCHOLARSHIPS FOR HEALTH PROFESSIONS                                           
STUDENTS FROM DISADVANTAGED BACKGROUNDS                                              
   (Scholarships for Disadvantaged Students (SDS))                                   
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 737, 42 U.S.C. 293a; Health          
  Professions Education Partnership Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  Promotes diversity among health professions students and practitioners by          
  providing scholarships for students from disadvantaged backgrounds. Eligible       
  health professions and nursing schools apply for funds to make scholarships to     
  students from disadvantaged backgrounds, who have financial need for               
  scholarships and are enrolled, or accepted for enrollment, as full-time students at
  the schools.                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Scholarships may only be expended for tuition expenses, other reasonable           
  educational expenses, and reasonable living expenses incurred while in             
  attendance for the year. The Secretary is required to make available at least 16   
  percent of the funds to schools that will provide scholarships only for nursing    
  students. Schools are required to agree that, in providing scholarships under this 
  program, preference shall be given to students from disadvantaged backgrounds      
  for who the costs of attending the school would constitute a severe financial      
  hardship and disadvantaged students. The Secretary may not make a grant to a       
  school unless the school is carrying out a program for recruiting and retaining    
  students from disadvantaged backgrounds and have met the eligibility criteria of   
  demonstrating the success of outcome measures.                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Accredited public or private nonprofit schools of allopathic medicine, nursing,    
  osteopathic medicine, dentistry, pharmacy, podiatric medicine, optometry,          
  veterinary medicine, chiropractic, allied health, or schools offering graduate     
  programs in public health, behavioral and mental health or physician assistants.   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Students who are citizens, nationals, or lawful permanent residence of the United  
  States or the District of Columbia, the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico or the        
  Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the American Samoa or the Trust         
  Territory of the Pacific Islands, the Republic of Palau, the Republic of the       
  Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia; and enrolled full-time in    
                                                                                     
  health professions or nursing schools.

                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be     
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.      
                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find

  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding

                                                                                     
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health

  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final

                                                                                     
  selections for awards.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Based upon the availability of funds, notice of awards are issued to the eligible

                                                                                     
  schools which in turn select and issue the awards to the eligible students.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                           
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  From 3 to 4 months.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

                                                                                     
  None.

Renewals:                                                                            
  Annual applications are required for all schools.                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Each scholarship award is made for 1 year.                                         


                                                                                11-08
Reports:
  A financial status report must be submitted 90 days after the end of each budget
  period. In addition a Scholarships for Disadvantaged Students Performance
  Report must be submitted 45 days after the end of each budget period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  In FY 07 $44,300,000; FY 08 $42,400,000 were awarded to health professions
  and nursing schools. In FY 09 est $0 awards.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $1,000 to $650,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07 and FY 08 over 450 health professions and nursing schools received
  awards. In FY 06, over 15,000 students were assisted and estimate over 15,000
  students will be assisted FY 07. In FY 09 estimate zero awards and zero
  students assisted.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Andrea Stampone, Division of Health Careers Diversity and Development,
  Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Public Health Service, Parklawn Building, Room 8-42, 5600 Fishers Lane,
  Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-4776. Use the same numbers for
  FTS.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.288, National Health Service Corps Scholarship Program; 93.342, Health
  Professions Student Loans, Including Primary Care Loans/Loans for
  Disadvantaged Students; 93.364, Nursing Student Loans; 93.908, Nursing
  Education Loan Repayment Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Scholarships to students of schools of nursing and health professions schools.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be reviewed for completeness, accuracy, and to determine if
  applicant schools meet minimum program requirements.
93.926 HEALTHY START INITIATIVE
   (Healthy Start)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title III, Part D, Section 330H; 42 U.S.C. 254c-8.
OBJECTIVES:
  To eliminate disparities in perinatal infant and maternal health by: enhancing a
  community's health care infrastructure and service system and a State's
  infrastructure; and directing resources and interventions to improve access to,
  utilization of, and full participation in comprehensive perinatal and women's
  health services, particularly for women and infants at higher risk for poor health
  outcomes.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Every Healthy Start project implements community-driven approaches to
                                                                                  1543
