  address infant mortality rates by reducing maternal behavioral and medical risk     
  factors and promoting healthy outcomes for women and their families.                
  Beginning with prenatal care and continuing through the infant's second year of     
  life, each community awarded funds assures the availability of a core set of        
  services and activities for the perinatal population in their project area. These   
  services include case management, home visiting and links to health care and        
  other needed services for mothers and their infants; direct outreach and peer       
  mentoring by trained community members; screening and referral for                  
  perinatal/postpartum depression; and strong coordination with and access to         
  substance abuse, domestic violence, mental health, early intervention, parenting    
  and other critical services for high-risk women and families. In addition, each     
  Healthy Start project is required to have a community-based consortium              
  composed of individuals and organizations and that includes women and               
  families served by their project, to collaborate with their State Title V (MCH)     
  Agency, and to implement a local health system action plan to improve the           
  quality, cultural competence of and access to services and/or to address other      
  problems in the local system of care. Funds may not be used to supplant             
  currently funded activities/services.                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Urban and rural communities with significant disparities in perinatal health, and   
  States with need to build their infrastructure/capacity to address and support      
  those communities trying to achieve the goals of the Healthy Start program.         
  Eligible applicants are any public or private entity, including an Indian Tribe or  
  tribal organization (as those terms are defined at 25 U.S.C. 450b). Community-      
  based organizations, including faith-based organizations are eligible to apply.     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Service area residents, particularly women and infants in areas with significant    
  perinatal health disparities.                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued              
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of the          
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more     
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for        
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from         
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be   
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                  
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator. The Associate Administrator         
  has the authority to make final selections for awards.                              
Award Procedure:

  See specific program grant guidance.                                                
Deadlines:                                                                            
  www.hrsa.gov .

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Final decisions are made approximately 166 days after receipt of applications.

Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  After initial award, projects may be renewed annually up to the limit of the        
  project period upon the submission and approval of a satisfactory continuation      
  application.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Project periods vary depending on specific grant announcement with non-             
  competing continuation awards made on an annual basis for up to 5 years             
  depending on satisfactory progress and subject to the availability of funds.        
Reports:                                                                              
  Grantees are required to submit progress reports on an annual basis. Financial      
  status reports are required no later than 90 days after the end of each budget      
  period. Final financial status and progress reports are due 90 days after the end   
  of a project period.                                                                
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                     
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000    
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit            
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a       
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,    
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                              
Records:                                                                              
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of         
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-    
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going            


1544                                                                            11-08

  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $96,660,615; FY 08 est $94,450,895; and FY 09 est
  $94,450,895.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $155,000 to $2,350,000; $974,653.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07, 102 projects were awarded to new and existing projects. It is estimated
  that 102 projects will be awarded in FY's 08 and 09.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Director, Division of Healthy Start and Perinatal Services, Maternal and Child
  Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of
  Health and Human Services, Room 18-12, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers
  Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-0543.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: 301-443-2385; Research and Training Branch: 301-
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: 301-443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.110, Maternal and Child Health Federal Consolidated Programs; 93.224,
  Consolidated Health Centers (Community Health Centers, Migrant Health
  Centers, Health Care for the Homeless, Public Housing Primary Care, and
  School Based Health Centers); 93.246, Health Centers Grants for Migrant and
  Seasonal Farmworkers.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  From pregnancy either to the next pregnancy or 2 years post delivery for the
  mother and infant, every Healthy Start project assures the availability of a core
  set of services and system building activities to the perinatal population in the
  project area. Projects include a consortium, case management, outreach, health
  education, screening and referral for depression, collaboration with State Title V,
  a local health system action plan, and plans for sustainability.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See specific program grant guidance.
93.928 SPECIAL PROJECTS OF NATIONAL
SIGNIFICANCE
   (SPNS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title XXVI, Part F, as amended, Public Law 109-
  415; Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006.
OBJECTIVES:
  To quickly respond to emergency needs of individuals receiving assistance under
  the Ryan White program; and to fund special programs to develop a standard
  electronic client information data system to improve the ability of grantees under
  the Ryan White program to report client-level data the Secretary.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The SPNS Program supports the development of innovative models of HIV care
  to respond to the emerging needs of individuals receiving assistance under the
  Ryan White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006. SPNS evaluates
  the effectiveness of these models, and promotes the replication of successful
  models. Areas of evaluation include design, implementation, utilization, costs,
  and health related outcomes of effective models. The SPNS Program also
  supports special programs to develop standard electronic client information data
  systems to enable Ryan White Program grantees to report client level data.
  Proposals are expected to adequately define and justify the needs, innovative
  nature, and evaluation methodology of the proposed model of services. Funds
  shall be used to create and/or evaluate innovative models of HIV care that would
  likely not exist nor be evaluated without SPNS Program support, or that would
  extend the care model to previously underserved or unserved populations. Funds
  under the SPNS Program cannot be used for: charges that are billable to third
  party payers (e.g., private health insurance, prepaid health plans, Medicaid,
