  Medicare); construction of new facilities or capital improvements to existing      
  facilities; to purchase or improve land; cash payments to intended service         
  recipients, as opposed to various incentives to encourage participation in         
  evaluation activities.                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible entities: only those eligible for funding under Parts A-D of the Ryan     
  White HIV/AIDS Treatment Modernization Act of 2006.                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Adults, women, children and families with HIV disease.                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be     
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find    
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of HIV/AIDS.         
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for         
  awards.                                                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications will be objectively reviewed based on published evaluation review     
  criteria, assigned a numerical score, and rank ordered for funding.                
Deadlines:                                                                           
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 4 to 6 months.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                     
  Grants will generally be awarded with 60-month project periods and five 12-

                                                                                     
  month budget periods; some grants may have more limited 12, 24 or 36 month

                                                                                     
  project periods.

                                                                                     
Reports:

                                                                                     
  A final progress report is due 90 days after the end of the project period. In

                                                                                     
  addition, a Financial Status Report is due within 90 days after the close of each

                                                                                     
  budget period and after the end of the project period.

                                                                                     
Audits:

                                                                                     
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                     
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                     
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of

                                                                                     
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-

                                                                                     
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going

                                                                                     
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely

  resolved.

Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0350-0-1-550.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  (Grants) FY 07 $25,000,000; FY 08 $25,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $75,000 to $600,000; $300,000.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In FY 07 there were 39 continuation grants and 18 new awards grants; in FY 08      
                                                                                     
  there will be 34 continuation grants and approximately 17 new award grants.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and   
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,        
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as          
  applicable.                                                                        
                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  Adan Cajina, Chief, Demonstration and Evaluation Branch, Division of Science

                                                                                     
  and Policy, HIV/AIDS Bureau, Health Resources and Service Administration,

                                                                                     
  5600 Fishers Lane, Room 7C-07, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone Number:

                                                                                     
  (301) 443-3180.

                                                                                11-08
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training
  Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch:
  Telephone: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.216, HIV/AIDS Mental Health Services Demonstration Program; 93.917,
  HIV Care Formula Grants; 93.918, Grants to Provide Outpatient Early
  Intervention Services with Respect to HIV Disease.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Prevention with HIV Infected Persons seen in Primary Care Settings: This
  initiative was designed to address the need for interventions targeting HIV-
  positive individuals in clinical care, to prevent transmission to uninfected
  individuals and to prevent re-infection among people who are already infected
  with the virus. The Special Projects of National Significance (SPNS) program
  awarded grants to one evaluation center and 15 demonstration sites. The
  evaluation center provides leadership in the design and evaluation of
  interventions that will have maximum impact on the theory, practice and policy
  of HIV prevention in primary health care settings. The 15 clinical demonstration
  sites were funded to implement and evaluate prevention interventions with HIV-
  infected individuals seen in primary care settings. The questions to be
  investigated include, among others: (1) Are provider-driven interventions in
  clinical settings effective?; (2) What specific models are most effective with
  different target populations (e.g. men of color who have sex with other men,
  heterosexual women, rural drug users, etc.)? An Evaluation of Innovative
  Methods for Integrating Buprenorphine Opioid Abuse Treatment in HIV Primary
  Care: Based on new legislation and the availability of buprenorphine treatment,
  the Buprenorphine Initiative was designed to determine the effectiveness of
  integrating buprenorphine opioid abuse treatment into HIV primary care
  settings. This initiative began in September 2004 and is comprised of 10
  demonstration sites coordinated by a technical assistance/evaluation center. The
  initiative is directed towards persons with HIV in the primary care setting who
  also have substance abuse issues. As a demonstration project, this initiative
  seeks to determine the feasibility and/or effectiveness of integrating
  buprenorphine opioid abuse treatment into HIV primary care settings. The
  ultimate goal is to improve the health of HIV substance abusers.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Evaluation criteria vary and are based on the grant initiative. However,
  evaluation criteria generally include some or all of the following: Factor 1:
  Adequacy of demonstrated knowledge of the local HIV service delivery system
  and the adequacy of the justification of need for the proposed model within the
  community and target population to be served by the project. Factor 2: Extent of
  the feasibility and clarity of the description, appropriateness, innovative quality,
  and potential for evaluation, replication, and dissemination of the proposed
  model. Factor 3: Comprehensiveness of the program plan as described in clearly
  stated goals, time-limited and measurable objectives for each goal, activities
  directly related to each objective, and a timeline that shows the schedule of
  activities and production of materials that corresponds to milestones stated in the
  objectives and program evaluation. Factor 4: Thoroughness, feasibility and
  appropriateness of the project's evaluation design from a methodological and
  statistical perspective. Factor 5: Extent to which the applicant demonstrates past
  involvement with disseminating information about HIV service delivery by
  describing dissemination activities to date (e.g., presenting and publishing
  findings through reports and papers, training, or technical assistance). Factor 6:
  Competency of the applicant organization in terms of fiscal, program
  management, and evaluation.
93.932 NATIVE HAWAIIAN HEALTH SYSTEMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Native Hawaiian Health Care Improvement Act, Public Law 102-396.
OBJECTIVES:
  To raise the health status of Native Hawaiians living in Hawaii to the highest
  possible level through the provision of comprehensive health promotion and
  disease prevention services, as well as primary health services, and to provide
  existing Native Hawaiian health care programs with all resources necessary to
  effectuate this policy.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The services of this program include outreach, health promotion, disease
  prevention, and primary health care services. These services will attempt to
  integrate traditional health concepts with western medicine so that existing
                                                                                    1545
