  barriers to health care can be removed. It is anticipated that the various          
  components will be integrated into one comprehensive system of care and that        
  the existing health resources of the community will be used to the greatest         
  extent possible.                                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible entities include Papa Ola Lokahi and the "Native Hawaiian Health Care      
  Systems." The term Native Hawaiian health care system is defined as an entity:      
  (1) Which is organized under the laws of the State of Hawaii; (2) which provides    
  or arranges for health care services through practitioners licensed by the State of 
  Hawaii, where licensure requirements are applicable; (3) which is a public or       
  nonprofit private entity; (4) in which Native Hawaiian health practitioners         
  significantly participate in the planning, management, monitoring, and              
  evaluation of health care services; (see attached)and (6) which is recognized by    
  Papa Ola Lokahi (a consortium of Hawaiian and Native Hawaiian                       
  organizations) for the purpose of planning, conducting, or administering            
  programs or portions of programs, authorized by this act for the benefit of         
  Native Hawaiians, and is certified by Papa Ola Lokahi as having the                 
  qualifications and the capacity to provide the services and meet the requirements   
  of this Act for the benefit of Native Hawaiians.                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Hawaiian Natives will benefit.                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued              
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from         
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be   
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                  
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Primary            
  Health Care. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final            
  selections for awards.                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  After grant application review and approval, a Notice of Grant Award is             
  prepared and processed, along with appropriate notification to the public.          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  The range is approximately 120 days.                                                
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Same as application procedure.                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Grants may not be awarded unless the entity agrees that it will make available,     
  directly or through donations to the entity, nonfederal matching funds in an        
  amount not less than $1 for every $5 of Federal funds provided. Nonfederal          
  contributions may be in cash or in kind, fairly evaluated, including plant,         
  equipment, or services. Amounts provided by Federal government or services          
  assisted or subsidized to any significant extent by the Federal Government may      
  not be included in determining the amount of such nonfederal contributions. The     
  match requirements may be waived if the Secretary determines, in consultation       
  with Papa Ola Lokahi, that it is not feasible for the entity to comply with the     
  requirement. Grant funds may not be used to pay for (1) inpatient services; (2)     
  cash payments to intended recipients of health services; or (3) purchasing or

  improving real property (other than minor remodeling of existing improvements       
  to real property) or to purchase major medical equipment. The entity may not

  expend more than 10 percent of amounts received under the grant for                 
  administering the grant. Other requirements and limitations are set forth in        
  Public Law 102-396.                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Budget periods are for one year. Project periods are for three years because        
  program is pending reauthorization.                                                 
Reports:                                                                              
  For each budget period during which an entity receives or expends funds             
  pursuant to a grant under this program, such entity shall submit to the Secretary   
  and Papa Ola Lokahi a report on: (1) Activities conducted by the entity under       
  the grant; (2) the amounts and purposes for which Federal funds were expended,      
  including a Financial Status Report; and (3) such other information as the          
  Secretary may request. The records and reports of any entity which concern any      
  grant or contract under this program shall be subject to audit by the Secretary,    
  the Inspector General of Health and Human Services, and to the Comptroller          
  General of the United States.                                                       


1546                                                                            11-08

Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records for a minimum of 3
  years after the end of a grant period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit
  or other action involving the record has been started before the expiration of the
  3-year period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. More detailed information regarding retention
  requirements are provided in Title 45, CFR, Parts 74 and 92.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $12,545,000; FY 08 est. $12,545,0000; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $1,300,000 to $2,400,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is estimated that 6 awards will be made in FY 07.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Director, Division of Health Center Management, Bureau of Primary Health
  Care, Health Resources and Services Administration, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room
  16C-26, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 594-4485.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Oscar Tanner, Director, Division of Grants
  Management, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of
  Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16. Health Services
  Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: Telephone:
  (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: Telephone: (301) 443-
  3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.224, Consolidated Health Centers (Community Health Centers, Migrant
  Health Centers, Health Care for the Homeless, Public Housing Primary Care,
  and School Based Health Centers).
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Each recipient of funds shall provide outreach, health education, a link to
  primary care providers, case management, immunizations, preventive measures
  for diabetes, high blood pressure and otitis media; pregnancy and infant care,
  improvement in nutrition, chronic disease prevention, and collection of data to
  prevent disease. Papa Ola Lokahi is responsible for planning, training; research;
  dissemination of information on native Hawaiian health; and coordination of
  resources for Native Hawaiians; advocacy, and special projects.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  An objective review of applications for grant support considers the adequacy of
  the following with reference to the provisions of the Native Hawaiian Health
  Care Improvement Act: assessment of community needs; program of proposed
  services; management and staffing plan; and evaluation plan. Priority
  consideration is given to those applications whose health promotion and disease
  prevention services are provided through Native Hawaiian Health Care Systems.
93.933 DEMONSTRATION PROJECTS FOR INDIAN
HEALTH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title III, Sections 301 and 327, 42 U.S.C. 241, as
  amended, Public Law 78-410.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote improved health care among American Indians and Alaska Natives
  through research studies and demonstration projects, addressing such issues as
  Elder Care, Women's Health Care, and Children & Youth Initiative.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Federal assistance is to be used for the following purposes: (1) Research,
  analysis, and investigation of a broad range of issues affecting the health of
