  nurses and scientists) with respect to acquired immunodeficiency syndrome          
  (AIDS) at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) by providing for the repayment   
  of educational loans for participants who agree, by written contract, to primarily 
  engage in AIDS research as employees of the NIH.                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  This program will provide partial repayment of educational loans incurred by       
  physicians, registered nurses and scientists engaged, as employees of the NIH, in  
  AIDS research. Recipients must agree by written contract to engage in such         
  research, initially, for a minimum of 2 years; individuals who have conflicting    
  service obligations may not participate in this program until those obligations    
  are satisfied or have been deferred during the period of program service.          
  Continuation contracts are available, dependent upon the level of debt and         
  continued involvement in AIDS research, and are issued for one-year periods.       
  Maximum program benefit is $35,000 per year in loan repayments and $13,650         
  per year in Federal tax reimbursements. Recipients must have qualified             
  educational debt in excess of 20 percent of their annual NIH salary, which is      
  referred to as their "debt threshold." An amount equal to half of this "debt       
  threshold" will not be repaid by NIH and must be paid by the Program               
  participants.                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants must: (1) Be a citizen, national, or permanent resident of the 
  United States; (2) possess a M.D., Ph.D., D.O., D.D.S., D.M.D., D.V.M.,            
  D.P.M., A.D.N., B.S.N., or equivalent degree, or hold the position of Physician    
  Assistant; 3) have educational debt, which results from governmental or            
  commercial loans obtained to support their undergraduate and/or graduate           
  education in excess of 20 percent of their annual NIH salary (exclusive of special 
  allowances of any kind) on the program eligibility date; 4) be appointed under     
  any temporary or permanent employment mechanism in the Intramural Research         
  Program of the NIH, so long as their employment has the potential to last a        
  minimum of 2 years; 5) not have an existing service obligation to Federal, State,  
  or other entities, unless deferred during period of program service; 6) submit an  
  application to participate in the Loan Repayment Program; and 7) submit to the     
  Secretary for Health and Human Services, at the time of application, a signed      
  contract agreeing to engage in AIDS research at the NIH for a minimum of 2         
  years.                                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  AIDS researchers who have unpaid educational loans will benefit from this          
  program.                                                                           
                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

  Applicants must submit documentation of the following, as appropriate: 1)          
  Copies of loan applications and agreements from governmental or commercial         
  educational loans that are being considered for repayment; 2) copies of the        
  standard student budget from schools attended during period when debt was          
  incurred; and 3) other documentation as required by law.                           
                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants must access and submit the Loan Repayment Program application           
  electronically via the website www.lrp.nih.gov; seek qualified employment with     
  a sponsoring Institute or Center (IC) of the NIH. Once an application has been     
  submitted, the Loan Repayment Committee reviews it at a regularly scheduled        
  review meeting and a determination of loan repayment recipients is made.           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The NIH Loan Repayment Committee (LRC) will review, rank, and approve or           
  disapprove applications recommended for program participation by each IC.          
  Applications approved for program participation by the LRC will be notified by     
  the Program Director. The Secretary, or her/his designee, will sign the service

  contract of program participants, provide a copy to the participant, and notice of 
  the amount of approved loan repayment.                                             
Deadlines:

  Review the Loan Repayment Program website www.lrp.nih.gov, or contact the          
  Headquarters Office listed below for the application deadlines.                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The approximate time for approval/disapproval is three months.

Appeals:

                                                                                     
  Employees of the NIH who are not approved as a result of this process may ask

                                                                                     
  for reconsideration through the standard appeal procedures available to NIH

                                                                                     
  employees.

                                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                            
  At the conclusion of the initial two-year contract, participants may apply and be

                                                                                     
  recommended for subsequent one-year continuation contracts under the

                                                                                     
  application and approval procedures specified above.                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.

                                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                     
  Assistance is available for a minimum 2-year period. One-year, continuation

                                                                                     
  contracts are available for individuals whose educational debt exceeds that        
  maximum repayable amount for 2-years. Payments are made directly to lenders,       


1548                                                                           11-08

  following each quarter of the participant's satisfactory service, unless otherwise
  agreed upon by the participant and Secretary of Health and Human Services.
Reports:
  Program participants must be certified quarterly as to having satisfactorily
  performed their research assignments.
Audits:
  None.
Records:
  The NIH will maintain applicant records for 3 years after rejection and
  participant records for 6 years after completion of final service obligation.
Account Identification:
  75-6846-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Loan Repayments) FY 07 $193,531; FY 08 est $720,000; and FY 09 est
  $720,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  For initial 2-year contracts, loan repayment awards may range from $4,000 to
  $70,000; Tax reimbursements range from $1,977 to $34,598. The average
  contract cost which includes loan and tax reimbursement is $53,162. There were
  no new awards in FY 2007; there were nine renewal awards.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Nine awards were made in fiscal year 2007. NIH projects that 13 awards will be
  made in fiscal year 2008 & 2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Pertinent information is contained in Public Law 100-607, Public Law 103-43,
  Public Law 105-392; Federal Register, Volume 54, No. 215, November 8, 1989;
  NIH Guide for Grants and Contracts, Volume 23, No. 24, June 24, 1994; Federal
  Register, Volume 56, No. 150, August 5, 1991; Section 487A of Public Health
  Service Act (42 U.S.C. 288-l). Notice of Proposed Rulemaking is pending.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Program and Business Contact: Patricia A. Cole, Ph.D., Director, Intramural
  Loan Repayment Programs, National Institutes of Health, Building 2, Room
  2E18, 2 Center Drive, Bethesda, MD 20892-0230. LRP Helpline Telephone:
  (866) 849-4047. Facsimile: 866-849-4046. Email: lrp@nih.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.lrp.nih.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.162, National Health Service Corps Loan Repayment Program; 93.164,
  Indian Health Service Educational Loan Repayment; 93.220, Clinical Research
  Loan Repayment Program for Individuals from Disadvantaged Backgrounds;
  93.232, Loan Repayment Program for General Research; 93.364, Nursing
  Student Loans.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Studies on the effects of gp120, TAT, and TNF-alpha on cell activation and gene
  expression in human endothelial cells in primary culture. Identification and
  characterization of cellular subtypes that comprise the immune system both in
  healthy human subjects and in subjects with diseases such as HIV infection.
  Development of murine models related to T-cell regeneration; and treatment of
  HIV patients infected with multi-drug resistant TB.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applicants are approved for participation in the NIH Loan Repayment Program
  for AIDS Research after the LRC determines that the applicant will conduct
  qualified AIDS research. LRC approval, in part, is based upon the
  appropriateness of the research assignment to qualified AIDS research, the
  scientific merit of the research, and the credentials of the applicant as they relate
  to performing qualified AIDS research.
93.938 COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS TO SUPPORT
COMPREHENSIVE SCHOOL HEALTH PROGRAMS TO
PREVENT THE SPREAD OF HIV AND OTHER
IMPORTANT HEALTH PROBLEMS
   (SHEPSA)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301(a) and 311 (b) (c), as amended; 42
  U.S.C. 241 (a), as amended; 42 U.S.C. 243 (b).
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve the health and well-being of youth and prepare them to be healthy
  adults.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Cooperative Agreement funds may be used to support personnel, purchase
  equipment, supplies, services, and travel directly related to the program activities
