  and consistent with the scope of this program. Cooperative agreement funds are     
  used to help schools prevent sexual risk behaviors that result in HIV infection,   
  especially among youth who are at highest risk. For example, cooperative           
  agreement recipients implement and integrate effective policies and educational    
  strategies to reduce risk behaviors that lead to HIV infection among youth;        
  implement strategies to reduce disparities among sub-populations of youth          
  disproportionately affected by HIV infection and other health problems related     
  to sexual risk behaviors; evaluate the implementation and effectiveness of         
  strategies to reduce risks for HIV infection among youth in schools for the        
  purposes of programmatic improvement and long-range planning. CDC believes         
  that the specific scope and content of HIV education programs in schools should    
  be locally determined and should be consistent with parental and community         
  values. CDC supports local decision-making by providing sound scientific           
  information to grantees who work directly with schools, communities, and           
  parents. Funds may be expended for written materials, pictorials, audiovisuals,    
  questionnaires or survey instruments, and educational group sessions related to    
  HIV education for youth, school, and college populations if approved in            
  accordance with the document "Content of AIDS-Related Written Materials,           
  Pictorials, Audiovisuals, Questionnaires, Survey Instruments, and Educational      
  Sessions in Centers for Disease Control Assistance Programs." Cooperative          
  agreement funds are also used to build state education and state health agency     
  partnership and capacity to implement and coordinate school health programs        
  across agencies and within schools. The expected outcome of this effort is to      
  help schools reduce chronic disease risk factors, including tobacco use, poor      
  nutrition, and physical inactivity. For example, cooperative agreement recipients  
  implement and integrate effective policies, environmental changes, and             
  educational strategies to reduce unhealthy behaviors; leverage resources to avoid  
  duplication at the state and local levels; evaluate school health capacity-building
  efforts while implementing effective strategies to reduce priority health risks.   
  Funds may not be used to conduct research projects, provide direct delivery of     
  patient care or treatment services, and purchase or disseminate condoms.           
  Although public health may have an assurance role in clinical testing and          
  screening, funds are not to be used to provide clinical testing or screening       
  services. Funds may not be used for purchasing computer equipment, office          
  equipment or furnishing, renting or leasing office space, or to support            
  construction or renovation unless specifically approved.                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants are official States (including the District of Columbia, the   
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Commonwealth of the                   
  Northern Marina Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Guam, the Republic of     
  the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands), Tribal  
  Governments, large urban school districts (with the highest number of reported     
  AIDS cases, high levels of poverty, and student enrollment greater than 75,000     
  students), and national non-governmental organizations.                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Official State education agencies in states and territories in the United States   
  (including the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,              
  American Samoa, Commonwealth of the Northern Marina Islands, Federated             
  States of Micronesia, Guam, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic     
  of Palau, and the U.S. Virgin Islands); local education agencies; national private 
                                                                                     
  sector organizations and their constituents; universities and colleges; school-age

                                                                                     
  youth, including minority youth, youth in high-risk situations, and youth with

                                                                                     
  special education needs; college-age youth; and school personnel, including

                                                                                     
  teachers, school nurses, paraprofessionals, and school administrators.

                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                     
  Costs will be determined by 45 CFR Part 74, Subpart Q for nonprofit

                                                                                     
  organizations and in accordance with OMB Circular A-87, "Cost Principles for

                                                                                     
  State and Local Governments."

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

  Preapplication coordination is not required. This program is eligible for coverage 
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An               
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of  
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires 
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program   
  for review.                                                                        
                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from Grants          
  Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease              
  Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30341. This program is subject to the          
  provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 and 45 CFR Part 74. The standard application          
  forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR Part 92 for State and local      
  governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for nonprofit organizations must be used for        
  this program.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  After review and approval, a notice of award is prepared and processed, along      
  with appropriate notification to the public.                                       
                                                                                     
Deadlines:

  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for deadline dates.                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From three to four months.                                                         


                                                                                11-08
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Information on renewals may be obtained from Bill Ryan, Grants Management
  Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room 2306,
  Atlanta, GA 30341.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project period can be up to five years. Budget periods are for 12 months.
  Payment under this program is made available through HHS Payment
  Management System (PMS).
Reports:
  The following reports are required: (1) A report that addresses the
  recommendations and weaknesses cited in CDC's Evaluation Report of the
  recipient's continuation application. This report is due within 30 days after the
  beginning of the budget period. (2) An annual progress report is due within 90
  days after the end of the budget period and a final performance report is due 90
  days after the end of the project period. This report describes the extent to which
  program objectives and activities were carried out, reasons for not achieving
  objectives or carrying out activities as planned, and other information relevant to
  the program. This report also describes data generated and includes reports of
  evaluations of program activities conducted during the budget period. (3) An
  annual financial status report is due within 90 days after the end of the budget
  period and a final financial status report is due within 90 days after the end of
  the project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133." In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the cooperative agreements program shall be retained for a
  minimum of three years, or until completion and resolution of any audit in
  process or pending resolution. In all cases, records must be retained in
  accordance with PHS Grants Policy Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $35,593,000; FY 08 est $35,593,573; and FY
  09 est $35,593,573.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $10,000 to $650,000; $299,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Competitive cooperative agreements to help schools and other agencies that
  serve youth to implement coordinated school health programs to prevent HIV
  infection and other important health problems were established with 49 State
  education agencies; to the education agencies of the District of Columbia,
  American Samoa, Commonwealth of the Northern Marina Islands, Federated
  States of Micronesia, Guam, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the
  Republic of Palau; three Tribal Governments, and to the local education
  agencies for 25 large urban education agencies. Through these projects, teachers
  and other school staff, university staff, and staff of agencies that serve special
  populations receive training to implement effective health education, including
  HIV prevention. HIV education materials are produced and disseminated,
  policies are developed and implemented, and youth are receiving HIV
  prevention education as a part of community prevention efforts and coordinated
  school health programs. State, territorial, tribal group, and local education
  agencies competed for funding in fiscal year 2008, with a program period of five
  years. Approximately eighty awards were made to states, territories, tribal
  groups, and cities. A new competition for state and local education agencies is
  expected in fiscal year 2013. National organizations competed for funding in
  fiscal year 2006 with a project period of 5 years.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Subject to regulations outlined in 45 CFR Part 74 and 45 CFR Part 92. Program
  guidelines are available from the Grants Management Contact.
Regional or Local Office:
  Program Contact: John C. Canfield, Program Development and Services Branch,
  Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for Chronic Disease
  Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
  Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, 4770 Buford
  Highway, Mailstop K-31, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-6141.
  Grants Management Contact: Bill Ryan, Grants Management Officer, Grants
                                                                                  1549
