  Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease               
  Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room 3716, Atlanta, GA                
  30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2717.                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: John C. Canfield, Program Development and Services Branch,         
  Division of Adolescent and School Health, National Center for Chronic Disease       
  Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,        
  Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services, 4770 Buford         
  Highway, Mailstop K-31, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-6141. Fax:          
  (770) 488-6163. E-mail: qzc6@cdc.gov. Grants Management Contact: Bill               
  Ryan, Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement              
  and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920                 
  Brandywine Road, Room 3716, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2717.           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.cdc.gov/healthyyouth .                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Examples of State Education Agency Programs include those that conduct HIV          
  prevention education teacher training sessions for teachers throughout the State    
  or provide mini- grants to regional educational service centers that conduct the    
  teacher training sessions. Other States have developed centralized teacher          
  training centers that provide training related to coordinated health programs and   
  comprehensive school health education that includes HIV prevention education.       
  Local education agencies provide teacher training and work with community-          
  based organizations to form coalitions to help address the needs of youth in        
  high-risk situations. State and local education agencies identify priority health   
  risk behaviors by assessing representative samples of high school age students.     
  National organizations also provide capacity building assistance to state and       
  local education agencies and their own constituents in developing policies,         
  training teachers, and in developing programs to reach minority youth, youth in     
  high-risk situations, and youth with special education needs.                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Continuation awards are made on the basis of the following criteria: (1) the        
  accomplishments of the current budget period show that the applicant is meeting     
  its objectives and carrying out activities as planned; (2) the capacity of the      
  recipient and staff responsible for managing and coordinating activities; (3)       
  current collaboration with HIV prevention programs of State and local health        
  agencies and with other relevant organizations; (4) the objectives for the new      
  budget period are realistic, specific, and measurable; (5) a description of the     
  methods of operation and activities that will be used to accomplish the stated      
  objectives; (6) a plan of evaluation; (7) evidence of support from relevant         
  organizations; (8) plans to share information about the program, including          
  copies of HIV education curricula, program descriptions, progress reports, and      
  educational materials with other agencies interested in HIV education for youth;    
  (9) a budget request that is clearly explained, adequately justified, reasonable,   
  and consistent with the intended use of cooperative agreement funds.                
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.939 HIV PREVENTION ACTIVITIES-NON-                                                 
GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION BASED                                                       
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                      
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT

                                                                                      
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES

                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

  Public Health Service Act, Section 301(a), 42 U.S.C. 241(a), as amended, and        
  Section 317, 42 U.S.C. 247b(a), as amended.                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide assistance to local, regional and, national nonprofit organizations to:  
  (a) develop and implement effective community-based Human                           
  Immunodeficiency Virus (HIV) prevention programs related to achieving               
  national goals; (b) promote coordination for primary and secondary HIV              
  prevention efforts among community organizations, HIV education/prevention          
  service agencies, and public organizations including local and State health         
  departments and substance abuse agencies; and (c) evaluate the HIV prevention       
  programs for which support is provided.                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Project funds may be used to promote coordination for primary and secondary         
  HIV prevention efforts among community-based organizations, HIV                     
  education/prevention service agencies, and nonprofit national and regional          
                                                                                      
  organizations.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Nongovernmental public and nonprofit private entities are eligible, including

                                                                                      
  American Indian/Alaska Native tribal governments or tribal organizations

                                                                                      
  located wholly or in part within their boundaries..

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Public and nonprofit private entities.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:



1550                                                                            11-08

  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the
  project, outline the method of operation, describe the evaluation procedures and
  provide a budget justification of funds requested. Costs for nonprofit recipients
  will be determined in accordance with HHS Regulations, 45 CFR Part 74,
  Subpart Q.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication coordination is not required. Applications are subject to
  Executive Order 12372. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the officials designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. This program is
  eligible for coverage under the Public Health System Reporting Requirements.
  Under these requirements, all community-based nongovernmental applicants
  must report to the appropriate state and/or local health agency as determined by
  the applicant.
Application Procedure:
  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from the Grants
  Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants
  Office. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Telephone: (770) 488-2720.
  The standard application forms must be used for this program as furnished by
  the Public Health Service and requirement by OMB Circular No. A-110 for
  nongovernmental applicants. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB
  Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organization.
Award Procedure:
  After review and approval of an application, a notice of award is prepared and
  processed, along with appropriate notification to the public.
Deadlines:
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 3 to 6 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Project periods are for 1 to 5 years with 12-month budget periods. Applications
  must be obtained from Grants Management Officer, Grants Management
  Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and
  Prevention. Telephone: (770) 488-2722.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. Although there
  are no matching requirements, applicants must assume part of the project cost
  and fiscal information must be provided in the narrative portion of the
  applications pursuant to provisions of Section 317 of the Public Health Service
  Act.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Quarterly or semiannual progress reports are required. Financial status reports
  are required no later than 90 days after the end of each budget period. Final
  financial status and performance reports are required 90 days after the end of a
  project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  There is a 3-year record retention requirement; records shall be retained beyond
  the 3-year period if final audit has not been done or findings resolved. Property
  records must be retained in accordance with PHS Grants Policy Statement
  requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $80,129,143; FY 08 est $77,501,379; and FY
  09 est $77,501,379.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $95,000 to $2,250,000; $367,200.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is anticipated that in FY 2007 approximately 218 awards will be funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations governing this program are published under 42 CFR Part 51b.
  Guidelines are available in the application kit. PHS Grants Policy Statement No.
  94-50,000 (Revised) April 1, 1994.
Regional or Local Office:
