  of funds.                                                                           
                                                                                      
93.941 HIV DEMONSTRATION, RESEARCH, PUBLIC AND                                        
                                                                                      
PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION PROJECTS                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT                              
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301(a), 42 U.S.C. 241(a), as amended, and        
  Section 317(a), 42 U.S.C. 247b(a), as amended.                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To develop, test, and disseminate improved HIV prevention strategies.               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  To assist States, political subdivisions of States, and other public and nonprofit  
  entities with research on the prevention of HIV infection at the community level.   
  Funds may be used to develop, implement and evaluate new intervention,              
  including those targeting people who are infected with HIV. Applicants are          
  encouraged to have research groups participate in the program.                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  States, political subdivisions of States, other public including American           
  Indian/Alaska Native tribal governments or tribal organizations located wholly      
  or in part within their boundaries and nonprofit private entities.                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  States, political subdivisions of States, other public including American           
  Indian/Alaska Native tribal governments or tribal organizations located wholly      
  or in part within their boundaries and nonprofit private entities.                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the     
  project, outline the method of operation, describe the evaluation procedures, and   
  provide a budget with justification of funds requested. Costs will be determined    
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.           
  For nonprofit recipients, costs will be determined in accordance with HHS           
  Regulations 45 CFR 74, Subpart Q.                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Preapplication coordination is not required. Applications are subject to            
  Executive Order 12372. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,      
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult         
  the office or officials designed as the single point of contact in his or her State 
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying   
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  To apply for this funding opportunity, use application form PHS 398 (OMB            
  number 0925-0001 rev. 5/2001). Forms and instructions are available in an           
  interactive format on the CDC web site, at the following Internet address:          
  www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. Submit the signed original and five copies         
  of your application by mail or express delivery service to: Technical Information   
  Management, CDC Procurement and Grants Office, 2920 Brandywine Road,                
  Atlanta, GA 30341.                                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  After review and approval, a notice of award is prepared and processed, along       
  with appropriate notification to the public.                                        
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From three to six months.                                                           
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Projects are for one to five years with 12-month budget periods. Application        
  forms must be obtained from the Grants Management Officer, Grants                   
  Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease               
  Control and Prevention: Telephone: (770) 488-2720.                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. Although there      
  are no statutory requirements, applicants must assume part of the project's cost

  and fiscal information must be provided in the narrative portion of the             
  application pursuant to provisions of Section 317(k).                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Project Period: From one to five years. Budget Period: For 12 months.               
Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly or semi-annual narrative and statistical progress reports are required.   
  Financial status reports are required no later than 90 days after the end of the    
  budget period. Final financial status and performance reports are required 90       
  days after the end of a project period.                                             
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      


1552                                                                            11-08

  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the project shall be retained for at least 3 years or until
  resolution of any audit questions. Property records must be retained in
  accordance with PHS Grants Policy Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $18,838,880; FY 08 est $14,945,541; and FY
  09 est $14,945,541.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $69,400 to $1,356,000; $214,325.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is anticipated that in FY 2007 approximately 60 awards will be funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations governing this program are published under 42 CFR Part 51b.
  Guidelines are available in the application kit. PHS Grants Policy Statement No.
  94- 50,000 (Revised) April 1, 1994.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Contact: Cheryl Maddux, Grants Management Officer,
  Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room 3000, Atlanta,
  GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 498-1911.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.246, Health Centers Grants for Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers; 93.283,
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and Technical
  Assistance; 93.978, Preventive Health Services_Sexually Transmitted Diseases
  Research, Demonstrations, and Public Information and Education Grants;
  93.991, Preventive Health and Health Services Block Grant.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Youth in High Risk Situations (i.e., out of home setting). Perinatal HIV
  Reduction and Demonstration Activities Projects (PHREDA).
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated on the extent to which proposed objectives are
  specific, measurable, time-phased, and consistent with the stated purpose of this
  program; the extent to which the applicant's proposed plan will identify and
  reach appropriate hard-to-reach individuals at risk for HIV, and the quality and
  scope of the applicant's past and current activities to provide education about
  HIV prevention and AIDS to high risk individuals; the quality of the applicant's
  proposed interventions and strategies to motivate and reinforce risk reduction
  behavior change among hard-to-reach individuals; the quality of the applicant's
  proposed plan to promote changes in community norms regarding HIV
  prevention and risk reduction behavior, and to generate support, cooperation,
  and collaboration with community based organizations serving individuals at
  high risk for HIV; the extent to which the applicant's proposed plan will
  determine, monitor, and measure changes in the prevalence of specific
  knowledge, attitudes, beliefs and self-reported behaviors among hard-to-reach
  individuals; the quality of the applicant's plan, including proposed methods and
  instruments of measurement to evaluate effectiveness of the strategies used to
  motivate and reinforce behavior change among groups targeted by the
  interventions, and the impact of the programmatic efforts on community norms;
  the extent to which the applicant's proposed plan will enable it to respond to and
  redirect programmatic efforts based on new information, changes in behavior,
  and changes in HIV sero prevalence.
93.942 RESEARCH, TREATMENT AND EDUCATION
PROGRAMS ON LYME DISEASE IN THE UNITED STATES
   (Lyme Disease)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301, 42 U.S.C. 241(a) and 317(k)(2), 42
  U.S.C. 247b(k)(2), as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop, implement and evaluate practical and effective measures for the
  primary and secondary prevention of Lyme disease in the United States.
