TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funding opportunities are made available to develop disease surveillance,          
  conduct ecological and epidemiological studies, develop prevention and control     
  activities, develop better diagnostic tests, and develop and disseminate           
  educational materials and programs. Grants include funds for direct costs, i.e.,   
  personnel, travel, equipment, supplies, necessary to carry out an approved         
  project as well as funds for the reimbursement of applicable indirect costs.       
  Unallowable costs, such as reimbursement of pre-award costs, as well as those      
  for which prior written approval is required, are indicated in the Public Health   
  Service (PHS) Grants Policy Statement (http://www.hhs.gov/grantsnet.gps/).         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Public and nonprofit organizations able to provide services to geographical areas  
  where Lyme disease is endemic or found to be newly emerging in the continental     
  United States. Thus, universities, colleges, research institutions, State and local
  health departments, and private nonprofit organizations are eligible.              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  States, political subdivisions of states, and other public and nonprofit private   
  entities and the general public who may be exposed to the threat of Lyme disease   
  in certain geographical areas.                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Nonprofit organizations are corporations or associations no part of whose net      
  earnings may lawfully inure to the benefit of any private shareholder or           
  individual. Proof of nonprofit status must be submitted by private nonprofit       
  organizations with the application or, if previously filed with PHS, the applicant 
  must state where and when the proof was submitted.                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program has no preapplication requirements. This program is eligible for      
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."         
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point  
  of contact in the State for more information on the process the State requires to  
  be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for  
  review.                                                                            
Application Procedure:                                                               
  To apply for this funding opportunity, applications must be submitted              
  electronically through Grants.gov (http://www.grants.gov) using the SF424          
  Research and Related (R&R) forms and the SF424 (R&R) Application Guide.            
  Detailed application instructions are included in the Funding Opportunity          
  Announcements (FOAs) for federal assistance. Submit the signed original and        
  five copies of your application by mail or express delivery service to: Technical  
  Information Management System, (Add FOA number here), CDC Procurement              
  and Grants Office, U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, 2920              
  Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341. This program is subject to the provisions      
  of 45 CFR 92 for State and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for        
  nonprofit organizations.                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Upon receipt, applications will be evaluated for completeness and                  
  responsiveness by the agency program and HHS/CDC Procurement and Grants            
  Office (PGO). HHS/CDC will not review incomplete and non-responsive                
  applications. After review and approval, a notice of grant award (NoA) is          
  prepared and processed, along with appropriate notification to the public. Initial 
  award provides funds for first budget period (usually 12 months) and NoA           
  indicates support recommended for the remainder of project period, allocation of   
  Federal funds by budget categories, and special conditions, if any.                
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadline dates.           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately three to six months.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Cooperative agreement project periods are for three to four years. Subject to      
  availability of funds, after initial awards, projects may be renewed non-          
  competitively contingent upon satisfactory progress by the recipient (as           
  documented in required reports) and the determination that continued funding is    
  in the best interest of the Federal government.                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no matching requirements. This program has no statutory           
  formula.                                                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Assistance is available for a 12-month budget period within project periods        
  ranging from 3 to 4 years. After awards are issued, funds are released in          
  accordance with the payment procedure established by the grantee institution       
  with DHHS, which may be an Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cost            
  Request System.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  An original and two hard-copies of the Non-Competing Grant Progress Report         
  (PHS 2590) are due no less than 120 days prior to the end of each budget period    
  within the project period. Financial status reports are required no later than 90  


                                                                                11-08
  days after the end of each budget period. Final financial status and performance
  reports are required no more than 90 days after the end of the project period. All
  reports must be submitted to the Grants Management Specialist indicated in the
  NoA.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants are subject to inspection and audits
  by DHHS and other Federal government officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the project must be kept readily available for review by
  personnel authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must be
  maintained for a minimum of 3 years after the end of a budget period. If
  questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of an audit, records must
  be retained until completion or resolution of any audit in process or pending
  resolution. Property records must be retained in accordance with PHS Grants
  Policy Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $2,986,426; FY 08 $1,400,494; and FY 09 est
  $1,500,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $250,000 to $650,000; Average award depends on funding opportunity
  announcement.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal years 2001-2003, 20 new and competitive continuation awards were
  made. In fiscal years 2004-2007, 10 new and non-competitive continuation
  awards were made for Lyme disease diagnosis, immunology, pathogenesis and
  tick control research, and community-based prevention programs. Beginning in
  fiscal year 2008, new competitive funding opportunities will be available for the
  evaluation of reservoir-targeted vaccine formulations to prevent enzootic
  transmission of Borrelia burgdorferi, and field trials to evaluate efficacy of
  natural products for the control of the tick vectors of Lyme disease spirochetes.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000 (Rev.)
  April 1, 1994. Pertinent information may be obtained by contacting the
  Headquarters Office.
Regional or Local Office:
  Bacterial Diseases Branch, Division of Vector-borne Infectious Diseases,
  National Center for Zoonotic, Vector-borne and Enteric Diseases, Coordinating
  Center for Infectious Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 3150
  Rampart Road, Fort Collins, CO 80521. Branch Extramural Activities Contacts:
  Ms. Diane Hamm - Telephone: (970) 221-6414 and Dr. Charles B. (Ben) Beard
  - Telephone: (970) 221- 6418. Division Extramural Activities Contacts: Ms.
  Mary Ellen (Mel) Fernandez - Telephone: (970) 221-6426. Dr. Lyle R. Petersen -
  Telephone: (970) 221-6428.
Headquarters Office:
  Scientific/Research Program Contact: Dr. Brian Mahy, Extramural Research
  Program, Coordinating Center for Infectious Diseases, Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention, Mailstop C-19, 1600 Clifton Road, N.E., Atlanta, GA
  30333. Telephone: (404) 639-3770. FAX: (404) 639-2469. Financial or Grants
  Management Contact: Ms. Sharron Orum, Grants Management Specialist,
  Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  (CDC), 2920 Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-
  2716. Fax: (770) 488-2777.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In the 2004-2007 project period, examples of funded projects include:
  development of materials for education intervention; conducting studies in
  integrated pest management; conducting studies on the pathogenesis of Lyme
  neuroborreliosis using the monkey model; implementation of active surveillance
  systems; and studies to improve serologic diagnostic techniques.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated on the review criteria described in the Funding
  Opportunity Announcements (FOAs). In general, the review and selection
  process of complete and responsive applications to the FOA consists of
  determination of the scientific merit by peer review, availability of funds, and
  relevance of program priorities and the priorities of DHHS. Refer to the FOA for
  additional review criteria.t he purpose of the grant? Are the measures
  objective/quantitative and do they adequately measure the intended outcome? I.
  Budget: The reasonableness of the proposed budget and the requested period of
                                                                                 1553
