  support in relation to the proposed research. Additional review criteria             
  applicable to the second Recipient Activities (Prevention) only are: 1. The extent   
  to which the applicant demonstrates high incidence of Lyme disease in the study      
  population(s) (9.6 per 100,000 in 2000-2002); 2. The extent to which the             
  applicant demonstrates the likelihood that the proposed intervention will be         
  practical, affordable and sustainable in the target community and can be             
  implemented in other endemic communities. the design of the study is adequate        
  to measure differences when warranted, and (4) a statement as to whether the         
  plans for recruitment and outreach for study participants include the process of     
  establishing partnerships with community(ies) and recognition of mutual              
  benefits. If these provisions are not relevant to the proposed scope of work, state  
  this and 5 points will be credited to the application. 6. Budget: The extent to      
  which the budget is reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with the           
  intended use of cooperative agreement funds.the design of the study is adequate      
  to measure differences when warranted, and (4) a statement as to whether the         
  plans for recruitment and outreach for study participants include the process of     
  establishing partnerships with community(ies) and recognition of mutual              
  benefits. If these provisions are not relevant to the proposed scope of work, state  
  this and 5 points will be credited to the application. 6. Budget: The extent to      
  which the budget is reasonable, clearly justified, and consistent with the           
  intended use of cooperative agreement funds.                                         
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
93.943 EPIDEMIOLOGIC RESEARCH STUDIES OF                                               
ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS)                                              
AND HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS (HIV)                                                 
                                                                                       
INFECTION IN SELECTED POPULATION GROUPS                                                
   (Epidemiologic Research Studies of AIDS and HIV)                                    
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT                               
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Health Service Act, Section 301, 42 U.S.C. 241, Section 311, 42 U.S.C.        
  243, as amended.                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To support research of important HIV-related epidemiologic issues concerning         
  risks of transmission, the natural history and transmission of the disease in        
  certain populations and development and evaluation of behavioral                     
  recommendations for reducing AIDS and HIV infection. Of special interest are         
  programs that examine these research issues as they affect minority populations      
  (defined as one of the four federally-recognized groups: African-Americans;          
  Asian/Pacific Islanders; Latinos/Hispanics; and Native Americans).                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Assistance is provided to support cooperative agreements that examine                
  important epidemiologic research issues concerning AIDS and HIV infection.           
  The research should contribute to the health services knowledge base from            
  which empirically based information can be derived by policy makers, both            
  immediately and over the coming decades. Grants include funds for direct costs       
  (such as personnel, travel, equipment, or supplies) necessary to carry out an        
  approved project as well as funds for the reimbursement of applicable indirect       
  costs. Unallowable costs, as well as those for which prior written approval is       
  required, are indicated in the PHS Grants Policy Statement.                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Eligible applicants include States, political subdivisions of States or their agents 
  or instrumentalities, private research organizations, including American             
  Indian/Alaska Native tribal governments or tribal organizations located wholly       
  or in part within their boundaries, other public and private nonprofit               
  organizations, and for-profit organizations.                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State and local health agencies; private research organizations, public and          
  private nonprofit organizations, for profit organizations; minority groups;          
  including American Indian/Alaska Native tribal governments or tribal                 
  organizations located wholly or in part within their boundaries, and persons         
  physically afflicted with AIDS/HIV infection.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined by HHS Regulations 45 CFR Part 74, Subpart Q for            
  nonprofit organizations and in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87, "Cost          
  Principles for State and Local Governments."                                         
                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  A signed original and five copies of the application Form 398 must be sent to the    
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC). State and local governments        
  may use Form 5161. An original and two copies must be submitted. This                
  program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR 92 for State and Local                
  Governments and 45 CFR 74 for nonprofit organizations, as appropriate.               
                                                                                       
1554                                                                             11-08

Award Procedure:
  After review and approval, a notice of award is prepared and processed, along
  with appropriate notification to the public, initial award provides funds for first
  budget period (usually 12 months) and Notice of Award indicates support
  recommended for the remainder of project period, allocation of Federal funds by
  budget categories, and special conditions, if any. However, applicants are
  encouraged to call CDC for programmatic technical assistance prior to the
  development and submission of their assistance application.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 120 days from receipt of application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  If additional support is desired to continue a research project beyond the
  approved project period, an application for competing continuation must be
  submitted for review in the same manner as a new application.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There are no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is available for a 12-month budget period within project periods
  ranging from one to three years. After awards are issued, funds are released in
  accordance with the payment procedure established by the grantee institution
  with DHHS, which may be an Electronic Transfer System or a Monthly Cost
  Request System.
Reports:
  Financial status and progress reports are required annually. Upon completion of
  the project, final financial status and performance reports are required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the project must be kept readily available for review by
  personnel authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must be
  maintained for a minimum of 3 years after the end of a budget period. If
  questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of an audit, records must
  be retained until completion or resolution of any audit in process or pending
  resolution. Property records must be retained in accordance with PHS Grants
  Policy Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $4,415,183; FY 08 $4,483,640; and FY 09 est
  $4,483,640.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $49,585 to $757,500; $237,840.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is anticipated that in FY 07 approximately 13 awards will be funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations governing this program are published in the application kit. PHS
  Grants Policy Statement No. 94-50,000 (Revised) April l, 1994.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Contact: Cheryl Maddux, Grants Management Officer,
  Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room 3000, Atlanta,
  GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 498-1911.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.118, Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS) Activity.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Assistance has been provided to support epidemiologic research studies of: the
  natural history of HIV infection in men who have sex with men, women and
  infants, injecting drug users, and adolescents; the transmission of HIV infection
  in populations of women, children, blood recipients, drug users, heterosexuals,
  prisoners and specific groups of minorities; and social, psychological and
  behavioral studies of HIV infection in selected population groups.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be reviewed and evaluated based on the evidence submitted
  which specifically describes the applicant's abilities to meet the following
