  criteria: (1) the plans to develop and implement the study describing how study     
  participants will be identified, enrolled, tested and followed; (2) the ability to  
  enroll and follow an adequate number of eligible study participants to assure       
  proper conduct of the study. This includes both demonstration of the availability   
  of HIV-infected potential study participants and the experience of the              
  investigator in enrolling and following such persons; (3) the applicant's current   
  activities in AIDS and HIV research and how they will be applied to achieving       
  the objectives of the study; letters of support from cooperating organizations that 
  demonstrate that nature and extent of such cooperation should be included; (4)      
  the applicant's understanding of the research study objectives and, their ability,  
  willingness and/or need to collaborate with CDC and researchers from other          
  study sites in study design and analysis, including use of common forms, and        
  sharing of specimens and data; (5) the plan to protect the rights and               
  confidentiality of all participants and ensure adequate participation; (6) the size,
  qualifications and time allocation of the proposed staff and the availability of    
  facilities to be used during the research study; (7) how the project will be        
  administered to assure the proper management of the daily activities of the         
  program; (8) the proposed schedule for accomplishing the activities of the          
  research; including time frames; and (9) the quality of an evaluation plan which    
  specifies methods and instruments to be used to evaluate the progress made in       
  attaining research objectives.                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.944 HUMAN IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS                                                   
(HIV)/ACQUIRED IMMUNODEFICIENCY VIRUS                                                 
SYNDROME (AIDS) SURVEILLANCE                                                          
                                                                                      
   (HIV/AIDS Surveillance)                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT                              
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301(a), 311(b), and 317, as amended.            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To continue and strengthen effective human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and         
  acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) surveillance programs and to              
  effect, maintain, measure and evaluate the extent of HIV/AIDS incidence and         
  prevalence throughout the United States and its territories, providing              
  information for targeting and implementing HIV prevention activities.               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grant funds may be used for salaries of staff conducting HIV/AIDS surveillance      
  and sero surveillance activities, travel related to carrying out project activities 
  and participating in national planning and implementation meetings, necessary       
  supplies, computer software and hardware, and laboratory, data collection, and      
  analysis costs. Grant funds are to be additive to replace existing resources.       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The governments, or their agents or instrumentalities, of any of the States of the  
  United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,           
  territories or possessions of United States, including American Indian/Alaska       
  Native tribal governments or tribal organizations located wholly or in part within  
  their boundaries, and local governments who are current recipients of HIV/AIDS      
  surveillance cooperative agreements.                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Official health agencies will benefit.                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State         
  and local governments.                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not applicable. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,             
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult         
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying   
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications are made in the form of an application PHS-5161-1, to the Centers      
  for Disease Control and Prevention. The standard application forms, as

  furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR 92 for State and local governments

                                                                                      
  must be used for this program. This program is subject to the provisions of 45

  CFR Part 92 for State and local governments.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  After review and approval, a notice of award is prepared and processed, along       
  with appropriate notification to the public. Initial award provides funds for first

  budget period (usually 12 months) and Notice of Award (Form 5152-1) indicates       
  support recommended for the remainder of project period, allocation of Federal      
  funds by budget categories, and special conditions, if any.                         
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                 11-08
  About 120 days after application submission.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals may be approved for one to five years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There are no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  From one to five years.
Reports:
  Original and two copies of progress reports are due semiannually and must be
  submitted to the grants management office within 30 days after each reporting
  period. For renewal applications, progress narratives should be submitted with
  the renewal application and cover progress from the preceding reporting period.
  Annual financial status reports are required no later than 90 days after the end of
  each budget period. Final financial status and performance reports are required
  90 days after the end of a project period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the project must be kept readily available for review by
  personnel authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must be
  maintained for a minimum of three years after the end of each budget period. If
  questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of an audit, records must
  be retained until completion or resolution of any audit in process or pending
  resolution. Property records must be retained in accordance with PHS Grants
  Policy Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $67,774,469; FY 08 est $76,044,582; and FY
  09 est $76,044,582.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $4,000 to $4,705,000; $579,650.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is anticipated that in FY 2007 approximately 120 awards will be funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000,
  (Rev.) April 1, 1994; Administration of Grants, DHHS, 45 CFR 92; Application
  Instructions and Information and Program Guidance established by CDC for
  HIV/AIDS cooperative agreements.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Contact: Cheryl Maddux, Grants Management Officer,
  Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room 3000, Atlanta,
  GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 498-1911.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.283, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and
  Technical Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Surveillance of HIV/AIDS and (2) sero surveillance studies and surveys.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Official health agencies which are current recipients of funds for HIV/AIDS
  surveillance activities; (2) need and background; and (3) a willingness to comply
  with applicable CDC sero surveillance protocols.
93.945 ASSISTANCE PROGRAMS FOR CHRONIC DISEASE
PREVENTION AND CONTROL
  (State Cardiovascular Health Programs (CVH); and Racial and
  Ethnic Approaches to Community Health (REACH))
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301(a) and 317(a), and (k)(2), as amended.
                                                                                  1555
