OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To work with State health agencies and other public and private nonprofit          
  organizations in planning, developing, integrating, coordinating, or evaluating    
  programs to prevent and control chronic diseases; assist in monitoring the major   
  behavioral risks associated with the 10 leading causes of premature death and      
  disability in the United States including cardiovascular diseases; and, establish  
  new chronic disease prevention programs like Racial and Ethnic Approaches to       
  Community Health (REACH).                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grant funds may be used for costs associated with planning, implementing, and      
  evaluating chronic disease prevention and control programs. Cooperative            
  agreement funds may not be used for direct curative or rehabilitative services.    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants are the official State and territorial health agencies of the  
  United States, the District of Columbia, tribal organizations, the Commonwealth    
  of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the        
  Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the          
  Republic of Palau, and American Samoa. Other public and private nonprofit          
  community based organizations are also eligible (see REACH).                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State health agencies and community based organizations will benefit.              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, State the objectives of the    
  project, outline the method of operation, describe evaluation procedures, and      
  provide a budget with justification for funds requested. Costs will be determined  
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments,          
  OMB Circular No. A-21 for Educational Institutions, and OMB Circular No. A-        
  122 for nonprofit organizations.                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Preapplication coordination is not required. Applications are subject to the       
  review requirements of the National Health Planning and Resources                  
  Development Act of 1974, as amended, by the Health Planning and Resources          
  Development Act of 1979. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.          
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from the Grants      
  Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants               
  Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road,          
  Room 3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. This program is subject to the provisions of 45      
  CFR 92 and 74. The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and             
  required by 45 CFR 92 for State and local governments, must be used for these      
  programs.                                                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  After review and approval, a notice of award is prepared and processed, along      
  with appropriate notification to the public.                                       
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact CDC Headquarters Office for application deadlines.                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From three to four months.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  After review and approval, a notice of award is prepared and processed, along      
  with appropriate notification to the public.                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  There are no specific matching requirements except for the Basic                   
  Implementation states for the Cardiovascular Health Program which requires a       
  20 percent match from State health agencies.                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project Period: From 3 three to 5 five years. Budget period: Usually 12 months.    
Reports:                                                                             
  Progress reports are required on a semi-annual basis. An annual Financial Status

                                                                                     
  Report (FSR) is required. Financial status reports are required no later than 90   
  days after the end of each specified funding period. Final financial status and    
  progress reports are required 90 days after the end of a project.                  
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a a program-specific audit conducted for      
  that year. Nonfederal entities that that expend less than $500,000 a year in       
  Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except    
  as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements     
  are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government          
  officials.                                                                         


1556                                                                           11-08

Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the cooperative agreement program shall be retained for a
  minimum of 3 years, or until completion and resolution of any audit in process
  or pending resolution. In all cases, records must be retained in accordance with
  PHS Grants Policy Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) Financial Assistance: Cardiovascular (CVH): FY 07 est $30,500,000;
  FY 08 $26,664,828; and FY 09 est $30,500,000. REACH U.S.: FY 07 est
  $23,837,394; FY 08 est $23,837,394 and FY 09 est $23,837,394.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  CVH: Core Programs: Capacity Building: $250,000 to $350,000; $300,000.
  Basic Implementation: $900,000 to $1,350,000; $1,250,000. REACH U.S.:
  Centers of Excellence in the Elimination of Health Disparities (CEEDs):
  Average $850,000 Action Communities: Average ~$400,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Cardiovascular Health Program (CVH): CDC funded 32 States and DC in 2005.
  Fourteen of the 33 States are funded for basic implementation programs and 19
  States are building core capacity for cardiovascular health. State CVH programs
  are defining the CVD burden within their State; developing a comprehensive
  CVH State Plan with emphasis on developing heart-healthy policies, changing
  physical and social environments, and reducing disparities; and designing
  population- based strategies for the primary and secondary prevention of CVD
  and promotion of CVH. REACH U.S.: Supported by CDC, funds 40 REACH
  U.S. communities: 18 Centers of Excellence in the Elimination of Health
  Disparities (CEEDs) and 22 Action Communities. CEEDs have expertise
  working with specific racial and ethnic groups, and they will be able to widely
  disseminate effective strategies and train new community partners. The Action
  Communities will implement and evaluate successful practice-based or
  evidence-based approaches and programs to impact population groups rather
  than individuals. Effective strategies will be applied through innovative and
  nontraditional partnerships at the community level. CEEDs and Action
  Communities target one or more racial and ethnic groups, including African
  American, American Indian/Alaska Native, Asian American, Native
  Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, and Hispanic/Latino. Health focus areas include
  breast and cervical cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, asthma, adult/ older
  adult immunizations, infant mortality, hepatitis B, and tuberculosis.can, Native
  Hawaiian/Pacific Islander, and Hispanic/Latino. Health focus areas include
  breast and cervical cancer, cardiovascular disease, diabetes, asthma, adult/older
  adult immunizations, infant mortality, hepatitis B, and tuberculosis.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  There are program regulations under 42 CFR 51b, Project Grants for Preventive
  Health Services. Guidelines are also available from PHS Grants Policy
  Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994,
  applies to grants and cooperative agreements.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  Cardiovascular Health Program Contact: Nancy Watkins, Teamleader, Program
  Services Team, Division for Heart Disease and Stroke Prevention, National
  Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for
  Disease Control and Prevention, Public Health Service, Department of Health
  and Human Services, 4770 Buford Hwy., MS K47, Atlanta, GA 30333.
  Telephone: (770) 488-8004. Program Contact: Mike Waller, Deputy Director,
  Division of Adult and Community Health, National Center for Chronic Disease
  Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
  Public Health Service, Department of Health and 4770 Buford Hwy., MS K45,
  Atlanta, GA 30333. Human Services, 1600 Clifton Road, NE., Atlanta, GA
  30333. Telephone: Telephone: (770) 488-5269. Grants Management Contact:
  Nealean Austin, Team Lead, Carlos M. Smiley, Grants Management
  Officer/Contracting Officer, Branch B, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services,
  2920 Brandywine Road, Suite 3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-
  2754.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov/nccdphp.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.283, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and
  Technical Assistance; 93.988 Cooperative Agreements for State-Based Diabetes
  Control Programs and Evaluation of Surveillance Systems.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Cardiovascular Health Program (CVH): The New York Healthy Heart
  Program has partnered with its Dairy Council to educate the public about the
  benefits of drinking low-fat milk. The campaign increased the sale of milk by
  five percent and the sale of low fat milk by 15 percent. It has also assessed more
  than 600 businesses concerning a heart healthy worksite. Based on this
  assessment over 300 worksites have implement changes to make it easier for
  their employees to be heart healthy during the workday: workday: offering low-
