  fat food choices in vending machines, being smoke-free, smoke-free, providing     
  physical activity breaks during the workday, making stairwells safe, and safe,    
  and encouraging employees to be physically active. The North Carolina CVH         
  Carolina CVH Program provided the Strike Out Stroke program that targets          
  hypertension targets hypertension in African Americans in partnership with the    
  North the North Carolina Association of Pharmacies and through local health       
  departments. The Missouri CVH Program partners with the State Diabetes State      
  Diabetes Control Program (DCPC) and Federal qualified health centers to           
  improve to improve outcome measures related to Diabetes and CVD. Arthritis.       
  Alabama Arthritis Program has effectively partnered with the Alabama Division     
  of Senior Services to expand the use of an effective arthritis physical activity  
  program. Senior Services has incorporated this program as a core activity at      
  nutrition sites. Nutrition coordinators have been trained as program leaders.     
  Using this systems approach, the Alabama Arthritis Program has tripled the        
  number of people participating in the program. The Tennessee Arthritis            
  Program has successfully partnered with the Tennessee Agricultural Extension      
  Service to expand the reach of an evidence-based self management program, the     
  Arthritis Foundation Self Help Course. More than 500 people have been             
  reached through this partnership. REACH U.S.: The Breast and Cervical Cancer      
  Coalition at the University of Alabama at Birmingham works to increase breast     
  and cervical cancer screening rates for African American women throughout the     
  state. In Choctaw County, African American women were much less likely to get     
  a mammography screening compared with white women. In 8 years, the                
  proportion of African American women who received mammography screenings          
  increased from 29% to 61%, surpassing the rate for white women by 13%. In         
  Dallas County, a lower mammography screening rate for African American            
  women (30%) compared with white women (50%) was virtually eliminated              
  during the same time. According to data from the eight counties that the          
  Alabama REACH program focuses on, the gap in mammography screening rates          
  between African American and white women decreased by 76% over the same           
  8-year period. The REACH Charleston and Georgetown Diabetes Coalition             
  focuses on diabetes care and control for more than 12,000 African Americans       
  with diabetes. As a result of the coalition's work, a 21% gap in annual blood     
  sugar testing between African Americans and whites has been virtually             
  eliminated. In addition, more African Americans in the target area are getting    
  the recommended annual tests to monitor their cholesterol levels and kidney       
  function and being referred for eye exams and blood pressure checkups. Lower-     
  extremity amputations among African Americans with diabetes also have             
  decreased sharply. For example, in Charleston County, the percentage of           
  amputations among African American men with diabetes who were hospitalized        
  decreased by nearly 54% in 7 years. In Georgetown County, the rate decreased      
  54% in 3 years. The REACH Latino Health Project developed culturally tailored     
  interventions to reduce the diabetes burden in the Latino community. As a result, 
  participants showed dramatic improvements in control of high blood sugar and      
  high blood pressure, which are risk factors for diabetes-related complications. In
  the span of                                                                       
  3years,bloodsugarmeasures below 7.0 improved by 8.7%, systolic blood pressure     
  below 130 mm Hg improved by 17.5%, and diastolic blood pressure below 80          
  mm Hg improved by 14.4%. In addition, the proportionof participants who were      
  referred for eye exams improved 26.5%.                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Based on the evaluation criteria as published in the program and/or Federal       
  Register Announcement.                                                            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
93.946 COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS TO SUPPORT                                            
STATE-BASED SAFE MOTHERHOOD AND INFANT                                              
HEALTH INITIATIVE PROGRAMS                                                          
                                                                                    
  (Infant Health and pre-term delivery Initiative; PRAMS; MCHEP;                    
  ART; VAW; Maternal Health Research)                                               
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT

                                                                                    
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Section 301(a) and Section 317K, 42

                                                                                    
  U.S.C. 241(a); 42 U.S.C. 247b-12.

                                                                                    
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                    
  PRAMS: To work with official public health agencies of States to: (1) establish

                                                                                    
  and maintain State-specific, population-based surveillance of selected maternal

                                                                                    
  behaviors that occur during pregnancy and the child's early infancy; and (2)

                                                                                    
  generate State-specific data for planning and assessing perinatal health

                                                                                    
  programs. MCHEP: To work with official public health agencies of States and

                                                                                    
  localities to develop a multidisciplinary team of individuals dedicated to

                                                                                    
  building the recipient's analytic capacity to use epidemiologic and surveillance

                                                                                    
  data to address the health problems that affect its women, infants, and children.

                                                                                    
  Prevention research activities related to women's health related to pregnancy, in

                                                                                    
  vitro fertilization, violence around pregnancy, pre-term delivery, and other      
  reproductive health complications.                                                


                                                                               11-08
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  PRAMS: Cooperative Agreement funds may be used to develop a surveillance
  system that will identify behavioral risk factors during pregnancy and early
  infancy, and will identify problems in health care delivery. Funds may be used
  to support the following activities: (1) Obtaining a commitment of participation
  from the Maternal and Child Health, Vital Statistics, and Data Processing units;
  (2) assuring that the State PRAMS program will have access to needed vital
  records information; (3) forming a Steering Committee to promote user
  involvement; (4) developing a surveillance protocol; (5) preparing a
  questionnaire, including State-specific questions; (6) obtaining Institutional
  Review Board review and approval; (7) implementing surveillance operations,
  such as sampling, data collection, data management, database development, and
  data analysis; and (8) planning for data dissemination and use. MCHEP:
  Cooperative agreement funds may be used by grantees to build their analytic
  capacity to use epidemiologic and surveillance data to address health problems
  affecting women, infants and children. Grantees in States, D.C., cities, and U.S.
  territories will develop a multidisciplinary team to identify populations at
  increased risk of infant mortality and to help direct programs to reduce this risk.
  Funds may be used to: (1) Establish a risk-oriented approach to the reduction of
  infant mortality; (2) substantially build State and local surveillance and
  epidemiologic capabilities; (3) enhance capacity in States to use surveillance and
  epidemiologic findings in program and policy development, implementation,
  and evaluation; (4) disseminate such analytic capabilities to other States by
  providing information, direct technical assistance, and a pool of knowledgeable
  and experienced individuals for collaboration; (5) coordinate State programs in
  database development and intervention research; and (6)develop stronger
  interactive partnerships among State, territorial, and Federal. To carry out other
  types of surveillance, prevention research, and demonstrations projects as
  authorized under the Safe Motherhood authorization.
Applicant Eligibility:
  PRAMS and MCHEP: Eligible Category A, maintenance of existing PRAMS
  surveillance system: eligible applicants are the official State public health
  agencies designated as vital statistics registration areas in the United States, the
  District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico and for PRAMS are the
  jurisdictions that received direct funding from CDC for PRAMS activities. Also
  eligible is the public health agency of the City of New York, the only city public
  health agency designated as a Category A applicant. For PRAMS and MCHEP:
  Category B, eligible applicants are the official State and territorial public health
  agencies designated as registration areas for vital statistics, American Samoa, the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Federated States of
  Micronesia, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall
  Islands, the Republic of Palau, and Federally-recognized Indian tribal
  governments. Prevention research eligibility includes public and private not-for-
  profit agencies including universities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Official State and Territorial public health agencies. City of New York public
  health agency and District of Columbia. Applications may be submitted by
  public and private nonprofit and for-profit organizations and by governments
  and their agencies; that is, universities, colleges, research institutions, hospitals,
  other public and private nonprofit and for-profit organizations, State and local
  governments or their bona fide agents, including the District of Columbia, the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the
  Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, Guam, the Federated States of
  Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, and the Republic of Palau,
  federally recognized Indian tribal governments, Indian tribes, or Indian tribal
  organizations, and small, minority, women-owned businesses.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the
  project, outline the method of operation, describe evaluation procedures, and
  provide a budget with justification for funds requested. Costs will be determined
  in accordance with the OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication coordination is not required. These programs are eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from the Grants
  Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants
  Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road,
  Room 3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. This program is subject to the provisions of 45
  CFR 92. The standard application forms, as furnished by CDC and required by
  45 CFR 92 for State and local governments, must be used for this program.
Award Procedure:
  After review and approval, a notice of award is prepared and processed, along
  with appropriate notification to the public.
                                                                                     1557
