Deadlines:                                                                           
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines. Grants         
  Management Officer, Ms. Nealean Austin, Procurement and Grants Office,             
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room             
  3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2754.                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From three to four months.                                                         
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Information on renewals may be obtained from the Grants Management Officer,        
  Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,         
  2920 Brandywine Road, Room 3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. This program is

  subject to the provisions of 45 CFR 92. The standard application forms, as

  furnished by CDC and required by 45 CFR 92 for State and local governments,        
  must be used for this program.                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project Period: up to five years. Budget Period: All programs: For 12 months.

                                                                                     
  Assistance is awarded through the SMARTLINK II System.

                                                                                     
Reports:                                                                             
  Progress reports are required annually.                                            
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June

                                                                                     
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                     
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are

                                                                                     
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government

                                                                                     
  officials.                                                                         
Records:                                                                             
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other        
  records pertinent to the cooperative agreements program shall be retained for a    
  minimum of three years, or until completion and resolution of any audit in         
  process or pending resolution. In all cases, records must be retained in           
  accordance with PHS Grants Policy Statement requirements.                          
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                   
Obligations:

                                                                                     
  (Cooperative Agreements) PRAMS: FY 07 $5,021,324; FY 08 est $5,200,000;

                                                                                     
  and FY 09 est $5,200,000.

                                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                     
  PRAMS: $100,000 to $150,000; $125,000.

                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                     
  PRAMS data collection is on-going in 37 States, New York City and South

                                                                                     
  Dakota Yankton Sioux Tribe. Data from PRAMS are used by states to identify

                                                                                     
  service gaps which are addressed through a variety of programs, many funded by

                                                                                     
  the Maternal and Child Health Block Grant.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                     
  PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000,

                                                                                     
  (Rev.) April 1, 1994, applies to cooperative agreements.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

  Contact: Director, Division of Reproductive Health, National Center for Chronic    
  Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and           
  Prevention, Public Health Service, Department of Health and Human Services;        
  770 488 5200. Grants Management Contact: Mr. William Ryan, Grants                  
  Management Officer, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease             
  Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room 3000, Atlanta, GA               
  30341. Telephone: (770) 488-2717.                                                  
                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

  http://www.cdc.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  93.994, Maternal and Child Health Services Block Grant to the States.              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  MCHEP provides epidemiologic and surveillance technical assistance to              
  participating States. Many States participating in PRAMS have developed and        
  implemented an ongoing population-based surveillance of State residents who        
  have recently delivered a live-born infant. Questionnaires have been developed     
  to collect information from new mothers on selected experiences occurring          
  before, during, and after their pregnancies. Using birth certificates, a sample of 
  mothers is selected monthly and they are mailed a self-administered                
  questionnaire. Non-responders are contacted by telephone.                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  All programs: (1) The extent to which the application describes and presents       
  appropriate data indicating an understanding of the problem, the program for       
                                                                                     


1558                                                                           11-08

  which assistance is requested, and the purpose of the cooperative agreement; (2)
  the degree to which the workplan addresses the stated needs, is likely to achieve
  the purposes of the cooperative agreement, and describes the specific roles and
  responsibilities of participating personnel; (3) the degree to which the
  application provides a complete and achievable timetable of appropriate events;
  (4) the adequacy of the plan to monitor progress toward the stated objectives;
  (5) the extent to which the budget is reasonable, consistent with the problems
  identified and the scope of the program proposed to address these problems, and
  the intended use of cooperative agreement funds, and clearly reflects the
  applicant's intent to commit nonfederal resources to support the operational costs
  of these programs. PRAMS only: The degree to which the application describes
  the process for registering births in the State.
93.947 TUBERCULOSIS DEMONSTRATION, RESEARCH,
PUBLIC AND PROFESSIONAL EDUCATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Section 317(e), 42 U.S.C. 247(bb), as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist States, political subdivisions of States, and other public and nonprofit
  private entities in conducting research into prevention and control of
  tuberculosis nationally and internationally, especially in conducting
  demonstration projects for the prevention and control of tuberculosis; in
  providing public information and education programs for prevention and control
  of tuberculosis; and in developing education, training, and clinical skills
  improvement activities in the prevention and control of tuberculosis for health
  professionals, including allied health personnel.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Requests for direct assistance (i.e., "in lieu of cash") for personnel, equipment,
  and supplies directly related to project activities, particularly directly observed
  therapy, patient outreach, and program assessment will be considered. Project
  funds may not be used to supplant State or local funds available for tuberculosis
  control or to support construction costs or inpatient care.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, political subdivisions of States, and other public and nonprofit private
  entities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, political subdivisions of States, other public and nonprofit private
  entities, serving persons with TB infection and disease.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the
  project, outline the method of operation, describe the evaluation procedures, and
  provide a budget with justification of funds requested. Costs will be determined
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.
  For nonprofit recipients, costs will be determined in accordance with DHHS
  Regulations 45 CFR Part 74 Subpart Q.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication coordination is not required. Applications are subject to E.O.
  12372. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or officials designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  To apply for this funding opportunity, use application form PHS 398 (OMB
  number 0925-0001 rev. 5/2001). Forms and instructions are available in an
  interactive format on the CDC web site, at the following Internet address:
  www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. Submit the signed original and five copies
  of your application by mail or express delivery service to: Technical Information
  Management, CDC Procurement and Grants Office, 2920 Brandywine Road,
  Atlanta, GA 30341. The standard application forms 5161 must be used for the
  program as furnished by CDC and required by 45 CFR 92 for state and local
  governments and by 45 CFR 74 for nongovernmental applicants.
Award Procedure:
  Applications that are complete and responsive to the announcement will be
  evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate peer review group
  convened by the NCHHSTP in accordance with the review criteria listed above.
  As part of the initial merit review, all applications may: 1) Undergo a process in
  which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific merit,
  generally the top half of the applications under review, will be discussed and
  assigned a priority score; 2) receive a written critique; and 3) receive a second
  level review by the Science and Program Review Subcommittee (SPRS).
  Successful applicants will receive a Notice of Grant Award (NGA) from the
  CDC Procurement and Grants Office. The NGA shall be the only binding,
  authorizing document between the recipient and CDC. The NGA will be signed
