  by an authorized Grants Management Officer, and mailed to the recipient fiscal      
  officer identified in the application.                                              
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From three to six months.                                                           
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Project periods are for three to five years with 12-month budget periods.           
  Applications must be obtained from Grants Management Officer, Grants                
  Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease               
  Control and Prevention.                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. Although there      
  are no statutory requirements, applicants must assume part of the project cost      
  and fiscal information must be provided in the narrative portion of the             
  application pursuant to provisions of Section 317(e).

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  From three to five years. Budget Period: For 12 months.

                                                                                      
Reports:                                                                              
  Either quarterly or semi-annual narrative and statistical progress reports are      
  required. Financial status reports are required no later than 90 days after the end

  of each budget period. Final financial status and performance reports are           
  required 90 days after the end of a project period.                                 
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are           
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government               
  officials.                                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other         
  records pertinent to the project shall be retained for at least 3 years or until    
  resolution of any audit questions. Property records must be retained in             
  accordance with PHS Grants Policy Statement requirements.                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $1,840,159; FY 08 est $1,790,122; and FY 09          
  est $1,800,000.                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $136,303 to $1,334,939; $447,531.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  An award was made during fiscal year 2007 to an international organization to       
  conduct joint conferences, to develop teaching materials and jointly conduct        
  courses in TB epidemiology in developing countries and to conduct                   
  demonstration projects of TB control programs in countries of strategic interest    
  to the United States. Another award was made to an international organization       
  to expand efforts and strategies to prevent and control TB and TB/HIV and to        
  implement activities to assist national governments, regional authorities, non-     
  governmental organizations, private and public health care systems, donors and      
  other intrested parters to develop, establish, and coordinate systems and           
  procedures to strengthen TB and TB/HIV treatment and control efforts                
  worldwide. An award was made to an international agency to conduct activities       
  that will provide for long term follow up of patients on treatment for active TB,   
  to study the mortality of TB in HIV infected patients and to assess the annual      
  risk of infection. An award was also made during fiscal year 2007 to a domestic     
  organization to maintain effective communication capacity among the nation's        
  Tuberculosis Control officiels (TB Controllers) and TB nursing professionals. In    
  fiscal year 2007, four awards were made. It is estimated that four awards will be   
  made in fiscal year 2008 and four awards in fiscal year 2009.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Regulations governing this program are published under 42 CFR 51b.                  
  Guidelines are available in the application kit. PHS Grants Policy Statement No.    
  94-50,000 (Revised) April 1, 1994.                                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: Heather Duncan, National Center for HIV, STD, and TB               
  Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Public Health Service,      
  1600 Clifton Road NE. MS E10, Atlanta, GA 30333. Telephone: (404) 639-              
  8131. Grants Management Contact: Roslyn Curington, Grants Management                
  Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers           
  for Disease Control and Prevention, 1600 Clifton Road NE. MS E15, Atlanta,          
  GA 30333. Telephone: (404) 639-8321.                                                


                                                                                11-08 
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.246, Health Centers Grants for Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers; 93.283,
  Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and Technical
  Assistance; 93.978, Preventive Health Services_Sexually Transmitted Diseases
  Research, Demonstrations, and Public Information and Education Grants;
  93.991, Preventive Health and Health Services Block Grant.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A project to advance the goals toward TB elimination and a project to conduct
  conferences to assist in teaching targeted TB control programs about TB
  epidemiology.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated on the extent of the tuberculosis problem; the
  establishment of specific and measurable objectives; and the development of a
  sound operational plan that will ensure the implementation of each program's
  elements.
93.952 TRAUMA CARE SYSTEMS PLANNING AND
DEVELOPMENT
   (Rural EMS/Trauma Care)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title XII, Sections 1201, 42 U.S.C. 300d.
OBJECTIVES:
  To administer grants to States and Territories for the purpose of developing,
  implementing, and improving Statewide trauma care systems.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The intention of this grant opportunity is to, at the State level, facilitate and
  coordinate efforts toward the (1) Development of State and Territorial trauma
  system infrastructure which coordinates regional trauma systems to administer
  quality, cost effective care at the local level, (2) Completion of an OMB
  approved national assessment of trauma systems, EMS resources, and disaster
  readiness, (3) Exposure of key individuals within each State and Territory to the
  new HRSA Model Trauma Systems Planning and Evaluation document and
  State self assessment tool, and (4) State trauma care data evaluation.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The State lead agency that has been designated to manage and coordinate the
  State's trauma system program, or the designee of such agency, are the only
  eligible applicants for this grant funding. If a lead agency has not been
  designated, then the agency having responsibility for State emergency medical
  services may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals in the State will benefit from this program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in the State for information on the
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Healthcare Systems
  Bureau. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections
  for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by a committee composed of members of the staff of
  the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS) and nongovernmental
  representatives. Applications are reviewed for merit, and are recommended for
  approval or disapproval. Final decisions are made by the Associate
  Administrator, Maternal and Child Health Bureau.
Deadlines:
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
                                                                                 1559
