Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  There is no formula. Cash or in-kind matching is required in the second and       
  subsequent years.                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Awards are made for a 1-year budget and up to a 3-year project period.            
Reports:                                                                            
  A progress report and closeout report is required. In addition, a final financial 
  status report is to be submitted 90 days after the close of the project period.   
  Please see annual grant guidance.                                                 
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of       
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-  
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going          
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely 
  resolved.

Account Identification:

  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not      
  available.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  FY 05 States: $40,000; (one exception was that NH only applied for and

  received $35,703), Guam: $15,000.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Successful OMB PART Trauma-EMS Systems Program Evaluation during FY               
  2005 for FY 2007 budget. Initiated October 2005 meeting of Program's National     
  Trauma-EMS National Stakeholder Group comprised of affiliated                     
  representatives from professional organizations. Development and release of FY    
  2001 through FY 2005 Program Report. Administration of grants to 41 States        
  and Territories. Development of cumulative grant funding profiles for each        
  State/Territory Development of individualized technical assistance plans for      
  each State/Territory along with the provision of resources to each applicant      
  specific to their approved goals/objectives. Operation of a $650,000/year         
  contracted Technical Assistance Center assuring quality technical assistance to   
  the States/Territories through a variety of venues. Successful continuation of    
  both a State Trauma System Manager Interactive Listserv as well as a State        
  Trauma System Manger Mentoring Program. Ensuring programmatic quality by          
  monitoring and evaluating program performance. Initiated February 2006 2 1/2      
  day State Trauma Leadership meeting (130 attendees). Initiated July 2005          
  annual Federal Partner Meeting to coordinate Federal efforts (40 attendees).      
  Successfully published 3 journal articles: (a) Trauma System Structure and        
  Viability in the Current Healthcare Environment: A State-By-State Assessment.     
                                                                                    
  J Trauma, 2005 (b) Public Health Preparedness for Mass Causality Events: A

                                                                                    
  State-By-State Assessment. Prehospital Disaster Med, 2004 (c) The Capacity

                                                                                    
  and Comparability of Statewide Trauma Registries: Potential For A National

                                                                                    
  Trauma Dataset, J Trauma, 2005 Released legislatively required document

                                                                                    
  Model Trauma Systems Planning and Evaluation along with a State and

                                                                                    
  Regional Self-Evaluation Tool (www.hrsa.gov/trauma/model.htm) Released

                                                                                    
  nationally standardized trauma data dictionary with the American College of

                                                                                    
  Surgeons National Trauma Data Bank.

                                                                                    
  (www.facs.org/trauma/ntdb/datadictionary).

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and

                                                                                    
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,

                                                                                    
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                    
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants

                                                                                    
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,

                                                                                    
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.

                                                                                    
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)

                                                                                    
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.

                                                                                    
Web Site Address:

  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                     
                                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:

  93.953, Trauma Care Systems Planning and Development.                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Development of statewide trauma systems, state trauma plans, public               
  information/education campaigns, educational services to trauma care providers,   
                                                                                    


1560                                                                          11-08

  and performance improvement initiatives.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Adequacy of the description of the gap in EMS/Trauma system components
  and of data presented in the needs assessment to support that the applicant is
  among those States that have the greatest need to develop, implement, and
  monitor trauma care systems. (2) Adequacy of documentation to support that the
  applicant is among those States that demonstrate the greatest commitment to
  establishing and maintaining such systems. (3) Completeness of the current
  State emergency medical services plan and of anticipated modifications to
  ensure adequate availability of complementary components necessary to support
  the trauma care plan. (4) Adequacy of the rationale that the modifications
  proposed for development, implementation, or monitoring follow a rational
  sequence of EMS and trauma care planning activities, support the commitment
  to a continuum of care, and will improve quality of trauma care provided. (5)
  Appropriateness and adequacy of the work plan, methodologies, and schedule
  for organizing and completing the project within the timeframe. (6) Preparation
  of application and proposed activities and workplan demonstrate coordination
  and consultation with, and commitment of, the medical, surgical, and nursing
  specialty groups, hospital associations, State and local emergency medical
  services directors, concerned advocates and other interested parties. (7)
  Reasonableness of the proposed budget and the cost efficiency of the project
  relative to service versus administrative costs. (8) Proposal demonstrates an
  understanding of the obstacles to completion and proposes effective measures to
  overcome these problems.
93.954 TRIBAL RECRUITMENT AND RETENTION OF
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS INTO INDIAN HEALTH
PROGRAMS
   (Tribal Recruitment)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Health Care Improvement Act, Section 110, Public Law 94-437, as
  amended, Public Law 100-713 and Public Law 102- 573.
OBJECTIVES:
  To make financial assistance awards to Indian tribes and tribal and Indian health
  organizations to enable them to recruit, place, and retain health professionals to
  fill critical vacancies and to meet the staffing needs of Indian health programs
  and facilities including those administered by the Indian Health Service (IHS).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Establishing and operating programs designed to recruit and retain health
  professionals into Indian health programs and facilities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any federally-recognized Indian tribe or tribal or Indian health organization is
  eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Preference is given to those applicants who propose to recruit for health
  programs and facilities that IHS has designated as high priority for the IHS Loan
  Repayment Program for physicians, nurses, and other health professions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. Costs for other institutions will be determined by HHS
  Regulations 45 CFR 74, Subpart Q.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The preferred method for receipt of applications is electronic submission
  through Grants.gov. However, should any technical problems arise regarding
  the submission, please contact Grants.gov Customer Support at 1-800-518-4726
  or support@grants.gov. The Contact Center hours of operation are Monday-
  Friday from 7:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. (Eastern Standard Time). If you require
  additional assistance please contact Michelle G. Bulls, Grants Policy Officer at
  (301) 443-6528 at least fifteen days prior to the application deadline. To submit
  an application electronically, please use the http://www.Grants.gov apply site.
  Download a copy of the application package, on the Grants.gov website,
  complete it offline and then upload and submit the application via the
  Grants.gov site. You may not e-mail an electronic copy of a grant application to
  us.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are made directly by the Indian Health Service to applicant agency, based
  on results of competitive review process.
Deadlines:
  Contact Headquarters Office listed below for application deadline.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Within 90 days of IHS deadline.
