Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Continuation applications must be submitted via grants.gov annually.

  Continuation funding is subject to availability of funds, satisfactory

  performance, and continuing need of the IHS for the program.

                                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Payments of grant funds are made through the DHHS Payment Management                
  System or DHHS Electronic Transfer System. Information will be forwarded to         
  new grantees regarding the process of obtaining funds.                              
Reports:                                                                              
  Projects must have data systems to support administration and evaluation of the     
  project. The funding agency will provide forms for the uniform reporting of data    
  on case management, fiscal management and project activities, in accordance         
  with 45 CFR, Part 92 or OMB Circular No. A-110, depending on the type of            
  grantee organization.                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  "In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  DHHS and the Comptroller General of the United States or any of their               
  authorized representatives, shall have the right of access to any books,            
  documents, papers, or other records of a grantee, subgrantee, contractor, or        
  subcontractor, which are pertinent to the HHS grant, in order to make audits,       
  examinations, excerpts and transcripts. Grantees are required to maintain grant     
  accounting records 3 years after the end of a budget period. If any litigation,     
  claim, negotiation, audit or other action involving the records shall be retained   
  until completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or 
  until the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.                     
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0390-0-1-551.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants and Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not          
  available; and FY 09 est not available.                                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $60,000 to $100,000; $82,900.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  In fiscal year 2005, six continuing awards were issued. It is estimated that six

                                                                                      
  continuing awards will be funded in fiscal years 2006 and 2007.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The Indian Health Care Improvement Act, Public Law 94-437, amended by

                                                                                      
  Public Law 100-713, enacted November 23, 1988; PHS Grants Policy

                                                                                      
  Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994.             
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  For program information, contact Mr. Darrell Pratt, Leader, Health Professions      
  Manager, Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, Suite 120, Rockville,          
  MD 20852. Telephone: (301) 443-5710. For grants management information,             
  contact Ms. Kimberly Pendleton, Senior Grants Management Officer, Division          
  of Grants Operations, Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue, TMP,              
  Suite 360, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (301) 443-5204. Use the same             
  numbers for FTS.                                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ihs.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  Need - Is the need for the project justified? If a project targets urban Indian     
                                                                                      
  health programs, is there justification and documentation for conducting

                                                                                      
  activities at that site? Do proposed efforts complement and expand past

                                                                                      
  recruitment efforts? Approach - Are the objectives well stated? Is the

                                                                                      
  applicant's work plan for conducting the project sound and effective? Is the

                                                                                      
  approach innovative? Are the activities proposed cost effective and will they

                                                                                      
  lead to effective recruitment, placement, and retention? Adequacy of                
  Management Controls - Is the applicant capable of successfully conducting the       
  project both from a technical and business standpoint? Is the proposed              
  interaction with IHS staff adequate for an application for recruitment of Federal   
  staff? Is the budget sound in relation to the work plan and does it assure effective
  utilization of grant funds? Are the facilities and equipment adequate? Key          
  Personnel - Regarding the position descriptions, are the qualifications of key      


                                                                                 11-08
  personnel appropriate and adequate to carry out the project? If a resume is
  provided, are the individual's qualifications and experiences consistent with the
  position description and conduct of the project?
93.958 BLOCK GRANTS FOR COMMUNITY MENTAL
HEALTH SERVICES
   (CMHS Block Grant)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title XIX, Part B, Subpart I, as amended, Public Law
  106-310; 42 U.S.C. 300X.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance to States and Territories to enable them to carry
  out the State's plan for providing comprehensive community mental health
  services to adults with a serious mental illness and to children with a serious
  emotional disturbance; monitor the progress in implementing a comprehensive
  community based mental health system; provide technical assistance to States
  and the Mental Health Planning Council that will assist the States in planning
  and implementing a comprehensive community based mental health system.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used at the discretion of the State to achieve the described
  objectives except for certain requirements. State plans must meet prescribed
  criteria. Services under the plan will be provided only through appropriate,
  qualified community programs (which may include community mental health
  centers, child mental-health programs, psychosocial rehabilitation programs,
  mental health peer-support programs and mental-health primary consumer-
  directed programs). Services under the plan will be provided through community
  mental health centers only if the centers meet prescribed criteria. Up to 5 percent
  of grant funds may be used for administering the funds. Funds may not be used
  to provide inpatient services; to make cash payments to intended recipients of
  health services; to purchase or improve land, purchase, construct, or
  permanently improve (other than minor remodeling) any building or other
  facility, or purchase major medical equipment; to satisfy any requirement for the
  expenditure of nonfederal funds as a condition for the receipt of Federal funds;
  or to provide financial assistance to any entity other than a public or nonprofit
  private entity.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and U.S. Territory Governments; or Tribal Organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Recipients of State and U.S. Territory Governments; and members of Indian
  Tribes or Tribal organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Chief Executive Officer of the State or Territory must apply annually for an
  allotment. States are required to submit an application which contains a State
  Plan that describes comprehensive community mental health services for adults
  with a serious mental illness and children with a serious emotional disturbance,
  an Implementation Report that describes State progress in implementing the plan
  for the preceding year, recommendations from the State Mental Health Planning
  Council, a report on expenditure of the preceding fiscal year's block grant funds,
  a maintenance of effort report and agreements signed by the Chief Executive
  Officer of the State.
Award Procedure:
  Grant Awards are issued directly by The Center for Mental Health Services,
  Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) to the
  designated State agency.
Deadlines:
  The application is due no later than September 1 of the fiscal year prior to the
  fiscal year for which CMHS Block Grant funding is being requested.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula is cited in Section 1918 of Public Law 106-310. Allotments to States
  are based upon certain weighted population factors and total taxable resources
  except that no State will receive less than 20.6 percent of the amount the State
  received from allotments made in fiscal year 1992 under the Alcohol, Drug
                                                                                  1561
