  Abuse and Mental Health (ADMS) Block Grant. Territorial allotments are based       
  upon the relative civilian population of the Territory except that no Territory is 
  to receive less than $50,000. This program has no matching requirements, but       
  does have maintenance of effort (MOE) requirements.                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Each allotment is available for obligation and expenditure during the fiscal year  
  in which it was allotted through the end of the subsequent fiscal year.            
Reports:                                                                             
  As part of the application, each State must submit an Implementation Report        
  that describes the State's progress in implementing the State's Comprehensive      
  Community Mental Health Services Plan for the preceding fiscal year and a          
  report of the purposes for which the grant received for the preceding fiscal year  
  were expended, including a description of the activities of the State under the    
  program and the recipients of the funds.                                           
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, 45 CFR 74.26 requires that for-profit          
  recipients and subrecipients have an audit performed in accordance with            
  Government Auditing Standards or OMB Circular No. A-133.                           
Records:                                                                             
  Each State must maintain records which are consistent with their State laws and    
  requirements.                                                                      
Account Identification:                                                              
  75-1362-0-1-550.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $406,843,470; FY 08 est $406,843,470; and FY 09 est not reported.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $50,000 to $55,061,465; $6,895,652.                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Fifty-nine grants were awarded in fiscal year 2007. It is anticipated that 59      
  CMHS block grants will be issued in fiscal years 2008 and 2009.                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  45 CFR Part 96.                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Program Contact: Dr. Joyce Berry, State Planning and System Development            
  Branch, Center for Mental Health Services, Substance Abuse and Mental Health       
  Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, 1 Choke          
  Cherry Road, Room, 2-1093, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Telephone: (240)             
  276-1736. Grants Management Contact: LouEllen M. Rice, Grants Management           
  Officer, Division of Grants Management, Substance Abuse and Mental Health          
  Services Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Room 7-          
  1091, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Rockville, Maryland 20857. Telephone: (240) 276-        
  1404.                                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.samhsa.gov .                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Applications must fulfill statutory and regulatory requirements. For information   
  regarding statutory and regulatory requirements, contact Dr. Joyce Berry, State    
  Planning and Systems Development Branch, Center for Mental Health Services,        
  SAMHSA, PHS, 1 Choke Cherry Road, Room 2-1093 Rockville, MD 20850.                 
  Telephone: (240) 276-1736.                                                         
                                                                                     
93.959 BLOCK GRANTS FOR PREVENTION AND                                               
                                                                                     
TREATMENT OF SUBSTANCE ABUSE                                                         
   (Substance Abuse Prevention and Treatment (SAPT) Block Grant)                     
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  SUBSTANCE ABUSE AND MENTAL HEALTH SERVICES                                         
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                                     
  SERVICES                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Health Service Act, Title XIX, Part B, Subpart II, as amended, Public       
  Law 106-310; 42 U.S.C. 300x.                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide financial assistance to States and Territories to support projects for  
  the development and implementation of prevention, treatment and rehabilitation     
  activities directed to the diseases of alcohol and drug abuse.                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 


1562                                                                           11-08

  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used at the discretion of the States to achieve the statutory
  objectives, including the fulfillment of certain requirements. Not less than 20
  percent of the funds shall be spent for programs for individuals who do not
  require treatment for substance abuse, but to educate and counsel such
  individuals and to provide for activities to reduce the risk of such abuse by the
  individuals by developing community-based strategies for prevention of such
  abuse, including the use of alcoholic beverages and tobacco products by
  individuals to whom it is unlawful to sell or distribute such beverages or
  products. States shall expend not less than 5 percent of the grant to increase
  (relative to fiscal year 1994) the availability of treatment services designed for
  pregnant women and women with dependent children (either by establishing
  new programs or expanding the capacity of existing programs). States shall also
  expend not less than 5 percent of the grant to increase (relative to fiscal year
  1993) the availability of such services to pregnant women and women with
  dependent children. States must require programs of treatment for intravenous
  drug abuse to admit individuals into treatment within 14 days after making such
  a request or 120 days of such a request, if interim vices are made available
  within 48 hours. States will provide, directly or through arrangements with other
  public or nonprofit entities, tuberculosis services such as counseling, testing,
  treatment, and early intervention services for substance abusers at risk for the
  human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease. Other statutory requirements also
  apply.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and U.S. Territory Governments; or Tribal Organizations. NOTE: Only the
  Red Lake Band of Chippewa Indians is eligible for direct award of SAPT Block
  Grant Funds, per the PHS Act.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Recipients of State and U.S. Territory Governments; and members of Indian
  Tribes or Tribal Organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Chief Executive Officer of the State, Territory, or Tribal Organization (limited to
  the Red Lake Band of the Chippewa) must apply annually for an allotment.
Award Procedure:
  Grant awards are issued directly by the Center for Substance Abuse Treatment to
  the designated State Agency, Territory, or Tribal organization (limited to the Red
  Lake Band of the Chippewa).
Deadlines:
  The application is due no later than October 1 of the fiscal year for which SAPT
  Block Grant funding is being requested.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The formula for the allocation of funds is cited in 42 U.S.C. 300x-33.
  Allotments to the States are based upon weighted population factors and, for
  equity purposes, a measure reflecting the differences that exist between the State
  involved and other States in the cost of providing authorized services. Territories
  shall receive funds based on the civilian population of the Territory as indicated
  by the most recent available data divided by the aggregate civilian population of
  the Territories, but not less than $50,000. The Secretary shall each fiscal year
  reserve for the Territories of the United States, 1.5 percent of the amounts
  appropriated for these purposes.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Each allotment is available for obligation and expenditure during the fiscal year
  it was allotted through the end of the subsequent fiscal year. Payments are made
  through the Electronic Transfer System.
Reports:
  Each State must prepare and submit an annual report of program activities for
  the preceding fiscal year in conjunction with the application for the requested
  fiscal year's funding. A copy of the State's most recent annual audit report must
  also be submitted.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, 45 CFR 74.26 requires that for-profit
  recipients and subrecipients have an audit performed in accordance with
  Government Auditing Standards or Circular No. A-133.
