  http://www.cahmeweb.org/. In making awards of grants under this section,            
  preference will be given to qualified applicants that meet the following            
  conditions: (1) Not less than 25 percent of the graduates of the applicant are      
  engaged in full-time practice settings in medically underserved communities. (2)    
  The applicant recruits and admits students from medically underserved               
  communities. (3) For the purpose of training students, the applicant has            
  established relationships with public and nonprofit providers of health care in     
  the community involved. (4) In training students, the applicant emphasizes          
  employment with public or nonprofit private entities.                               
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
93.964 PUBLIC HEALTH TRAINEESHIPS                                                     
   (Public Health Traineeships)                                                       
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 769, 42 U.S.C. 294, as amended;       
  Health Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To support traineeships for students in graduate educational programs in            
  accredited schools of public health and to other public or nonprofit private        
  institutions accredited for the provision of graduate or specialized training in    
  Public Health which offer graduate programs for training in Public Health fields    
  with a severe shortage, e.g., (1) Biostatistics; (2) epidemiology; (3)              
  environmental health; (4) toxicology; (5) nutrition; and (6) maternal and child     
  health.                                                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grant funds may be used only to support students enrolled in grant-eligible         
  graduate programs for severe shortage public health professions. Students           
  pursuing joint degrees such as the MPH/MD, MPH/MSN, MPH/MSA, etc., are              
  eligible for traineeship support for completion of their public health degree only. 
   Funding may not be sought for courses or other expenses related to their non-      
  public health degree curriculum. Funding may not be used to support residency       
  requirements. Traineeship expenditures are limited to payment of stipends,          
  tuition and fees in accordance with the institution's established rates, and a      
  transportation allowance on an individual trainee basis when prior approval has     
  been obtained from the Grants Management Officer. Grantees may not spend            
  grant funds for sectarian instruction or for any religious purpose. Use of          
  traineeship funds for indirect cost (overhead) of the trainee institution is not    
  authorized.                                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Schools and programs of Public Health and other public or nonprofit private         
  educational entities, including faith-based and community-based organizations       
  accredited by the Council on Education for Public Health, and other public or       
  nonprofit private institutions accredited by a body recognized for this purpose by  
  the Secretary of the Department of Education.                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  (1) Trainees must be United States Citizens or non-citizen nationals and foreign    
  nationals who possess a visa permitting permanent residence in the United           
  States. (2) Trainees must be pursuing a graduate degree in an accredited school     
  of public health or other eligible institution. (3) For grants awarded on the basis 
  of a formula, all trainees must meet the admission requirements specified in the    
  approved grant application and those of the institution.                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued              
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from         
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be   
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                  
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health             
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final            
  selections for awards.

Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Notification is made in writing by a Notice of Grant Award issued from the          
  Headquarters Office.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  www.hrsa.gov .

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 3 to 5 months after receipt of applications.                                   
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               


1564                                                                            11-08

Renewals:
  At the end of the initial project period, competing continuation applications may
  be submitted for up to three (3) years of support.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Available funds are provided to schools of public health and other eligible
  accredited applicants on the basis of a formula which considers comparative
  enrollment of trainees in the applicant's proposal. This program has no
  matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant support may be requested for up to 3 years.
Reports:
  A Uniform Progress Report must be submitted via on-line for the current
  reporting period via the Bureau's web page www.bhpr.hrsa.gov/grants, click on
  Grantee Reports. A financial status reports must be submitted within 90 days
  after the end of each budget period. A final progress report and final financial
  status report must be submitted within 90 days after the end of the project
  period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,289,740; FY 08 est $1,258,262; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  (2007) $9,404 to $182,096; $57,194 average.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007 22 awards were made. In FY 2008, it is estimated that 22
  continuation awards will be made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  David Hanny, Program Officer, Division of Diversity and Interdisciplinary
  Education, Bureau of Health Professions, Health Resources and Services
  Administration, Department of Health and Human Services, Room 9-36, 5600
  Fishers Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-6950 and Email:
  dhanny@hrsa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-3524; Research and Training Branch: (301)
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Support of trainees who are pursuing a graduate course of study in: (1)
  biostatistics (2) epidemiology; (3) environmental health; (4) nutrition; (5)
  toxicology; and (6) maternal and child health.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  After staff review, funds are awarded on a formula basis among the eligible
  applicant schools of public health and other accredited public or private
  nonprofit institutions based on the number of students preparing to enter
  occupations for which there exist severe shortages.
93.965 COAL MINERS RESPIRATORY IMPAIRMENT
TREATMENT CLINICS AND SERVICES
   (Black Lung Clinics)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
