  Federal Mine Safety and Health Act, Section 427(a); Black Lung Benefits Act;        
  Public Law 95-239.                                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  (1) To develop high quality, patient-oriented, integrated systems of care which     
  assure access to and continuity of appropriate primary, secondary and tertiary      
  care with maximum use of existing resources; (2) to minimize the effects of         
  respiratory and pulmonary impairments in coal miners and others with                
  occupational related respiratory diseases; and (3) to emphasize patient and         
  family member education to maximize the patient's ability for self-care.            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  USES: Grants may be used for the cost of providing diagnostic and treatment         
  procedures required in the management of black lung and other respiratory           
  impairments in coal miners and others with occupational related respiratory         
  diseases, and costs of equipment and facilities renovation when these costs are     
  demonstrated to be necessary to enable the implementation of services.              
  RESTRICTIONS: Support is available only in areas where it can be                    
  demonstrated that there are significant numbers of active and/or inactive coal      
  miners.                                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Any State and/or public or private entity. Federally recognized tribes and tribal   
  organizations are eligible to apply.                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Coal workers with respiratory and pulmonary impairments and their families.         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued              
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be      
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office of official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from         
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find     
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be   
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                  
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Office of Rural Health.      
  The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final selections for          
  awards.                                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Each applicant will receive written notification of the outcome of the objective    
  review process, including summary of the expert committee's assessment of the       
  application's merits and weaknesses, and whether the application was selected       
  for funding. Applicants who are selected for funding may be required to respond     
  in a satisfactory manner to conditions placed on their application before funding   
  can proceed. Letters of notification do not provide authorization to begin          
  performance. The Notice of Grant Award, which is signed by the Grants               
  Management Officer and is sent to the applicant agency's Authorized                 
  Representative, is the authorizing document.                                        
Deadlines:                                                                            
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 90 to 120 days.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Same as Application Procedure.                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Assistance will cover operational costs and grantees will generally be expected     
  to begin to deliver services immediately. However, at the discretion of the

  awarding office, up to 6 months may be allowed for planning and program             
  development.                                                                        
Reports:                                                                              
  Grantees are required to submit an annual report that describes the utilization     
  costs of services provided under the grant, and provide such other information as   
  the Secretary determines appropriate. The Black Lung Clinics Program Database       
  report is due annually according to specific instructions from the Program          
  Office. Financial status reports are required no later than 90 days after the end of
  each budget period. Final financial status and progress reports are due 90 days     
  after the end of a project period.                                                  
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         


                                                                                 11-08
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3-
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $5,648,496; FY 08 est $5,600,000; and FY 09 est $5,600,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $115,000 to $1,200,000. The average award is $387,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 07 15 grantees were funded and it is anticipated that in both FY 08 and
  FY 09 fifteen clinics will be funded to serve victims of black lung disease.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations, as
  applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  Office of Rural Health Policy, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  5600 Fishers Lane Room 9A-55, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-
  0835.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.
  Health Services Branch: 301-443-2385; Research and Training Branch: 301-
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: 301-443-3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  17.307, Coal Mine Workers' Compensation; 93.224, Consolidated Health
  Centers (Community Health Centers, Migrant Health Centers, Health Care for
  the Homeless, Public Housing Primary Care, and School Based Health Centers);
  93.773, Medicare_Hospital Insurance; 93.774, Medicare_Supplementary
  Medical Insurance; 93.778, Medical Assistance Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) A statewide program of Black Lung Clinics as part of community primary
  care centers with coordination and assistance from the State health department;
  (2) an area-wide system of clinical and educational services in a rural area for
  Black Lung victims administered by a secondary referral hospital through
  linkage arrangements with other provider agencies; and (3) a respiratory clinic
  operated by a nonprofit community organization to serve Black Lung victims in
  a county. Primary care services can be provided by private practitioners and
  community clinics through referral agreements.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Projects must: (1) Serve a significant number of coal workers with pulmonary
  impairment without regard for their ability to pay; (2) maximize use of existing
  resources; (3) assure high quality treatment services and management; (4) assure
  that enrolled clients will receive education and training in the management of
  their health care; (5) establish agreements with all levels of care providers to
  assure continuity of care; (6) provide a coordinator of patient care who will
  assure the implementation of a patient care plan for each enrollee; and (7)
  coordinate with other similar projects to assure access to those who need
  services without duplication of effort.
93.969 GERIATRIC EDUCATION CENTERS
   (GEC's)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, Title VII, Section 753(a), as amended; Health
  Professions Education Partnerships Act of 1998, Public Law 105-392.
OBJECTIVES:
  Grants are given to support the development of collaborative arrangements
  involving several health professions schools and health care facilities. Geriatric
  Education Centers provide training of health professional faculty, students, and
  practitioners in the diagnosis, treatment and prevention of disease, disability,
  and other health problems of the elderly. Health professionals include allopathic
  physicians, osteopathic physicians, dentists, optometrists, podiatrists,
  pharmacists, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, chiropractors, clinical
                                                                                  1565
