  us. This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and      
  local governments and OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations.           
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Grants are made directly by the Indian Health Service to applicant agency, based    
  on results of competitive review process.                                           
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact Headquarters Office for application deadlines.                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Within 90 days of IHS deadline.

Appeals:

  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Continuation applications must be submitted annually. Continued funding is

                                                                                      
  subject to availability of funds and satisfactory performance.                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Payments of grant funds are made through the DHHS Payment Management

                                                                                      
  System (PMS) or DHHS Electronic Transfer System. Information will be                
  forwarded to new grantees regarding the process of obtaining funds.                 
Reports:                                                                              
  Projects must have data systems to support administration and evaluation of the

                                                                                      
  project. The funding agency will provide forms for the uniform reporting of data

                                                                                      
  on case management, fiscal management and project activities, in accordance         
  with 45 CFR, Part 92 or OMB Circular No. A-110, depending on the type of            
  grantee organization.                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  HHS and the Comptroller General of the United States or any of their authorized     
  representatives, shall have the right of access to any books, documents, papers,    
  or other records of a grantee, subgrantee, contractor, or subcontractor, which are  
  pertinent to the HHS grant, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts and     
  transcripts. Grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records 3 years     
  after the end of a budget period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or   
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3- 
  year period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and       
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later.                                                         
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0390-0-1-551.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est. not available.                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $300,000 to $500,000; $224,600.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2005, 11 continuing projects were awarded. In fiscal years 2006      
  and 2007, 11 continuing projects are expected to be funded.                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  42 CFR 36.310 - 36.319. Final rules and regulations, the Indian Health Care

                                                                                      
  Improvement Act, Public Law 94-437, amended by Public Law 100-713,                  
  enacted November 23, 1988; and Public Law 102-573, enacted October 29,              
  1992; PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000,           
  (Rev.) April 1, 1994.                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  For Health Professions Recruitment and Health Resident Recruitment Contact:         
  Mr. Darrell Pratt, Leader, Health Professions Manager, Indian Health Service,       
  801 Thompson Avenue, Suite 120, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (301)               
  443-5710. For Nursing Recruitment Contact: Ms. Sandra Haldane, Director,            
  Division of Nursing Services, Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue,           
  Suite 300, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (301) 443-1026. Grants                   
  Management Contact: Ms. Kimberly Pendleton, Senior Grants Management                
  Officer, Division of Grants Operations, Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson         
  Avenue, TMP. Suite 360, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (301) 443-5204.             
  Use the same numbers for FTS.                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ihs.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  (1) The University of North Dakota recruited Indians into its medical and health    
  care programs; and (2) the Arizona State University recruited students for          


                                                                                 11-08
  nursing careers, and provided scholarship support through the grant.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Potential effectiveness of the proposed project in carrying out such purposes,
  (2) the demonstrated capability of the applicants to successfully conduct this
  type of project, (3) accessibility of the applicant to the target population, (4)
  relationship of project objectives and known or anticipated Indian health
  manpower objectives, (5) soundness of the fiscal plan, (6) cost reasonableness,
  and (7) completeness of the application.
93.971 HEALTH PROFESSIONS PREPARATORY
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM FOR INDIANS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Indian Health Care Improvement Act, Public Law 94- 437, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To make scholarships to American Indians and Alaska Natives for the purpose
  of completing compensatory pre-professional education to enable the recipient to
  qualify for enrollment or re- enrollment in a health professions school or
  curriculum.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Scholarship awards are limited to persons of American Indian or Alaska Native
  descent. Awards are limited to a maximum of 2 years of full-time scholarship
  support under this section of the Indian Health Care Improvement Act.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Scholarship awards are made to individuals of American Indian or Alaska
  Native descent, who have successfully completed high school education or high
  school equivalency and who have been accepted for enrollment in a
  compensatory, pre-professional general education course or curriculum.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals of American Indian or Alaska Native descent.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Students must submit proper documentation of Indian eligibility verification
  from the college advisor that the courses or curriculum to be taken are required
  to meet the applicant's deficiency and compensatory needs at the professional
  level and represent the number of credit hours which the school considers as
  full-time or at least 6 credit hours per semester for part-time.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication is not required. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application forms and instructions are provided by the Indian Health Service
  (IHS) Scholarship Program acting through the IHS Area Program Offices.
  Application forms and required documentation (official transcripts, letter of
  acceptance by college, curriculum verification, Indian eligibility, tuition
  verification, faculty evaluations) should be submitted to IHS Headquarters for
  review and approval/disapproval.
Award Procedure:
  Payments for stipends and books are made directly to the individual applicant.
  Tuition payments and fees are made to the college or university, upon receipt of
  an invoice.
Deadlines:
  Contact IHS Area offices for application deadlines. New applications are usually
  available to interested individuals in February with a submission deadline of
  April 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants are notified by July 31.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Continuation applications must be submitted annually. Continued funding
  subject to availability of funds and satisfactory performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Tuition payments are paid upon receipt of invoices from the universities.
  Stipend payments are paid monthly, for 10 months or for the academic period if
  students attends summer school. Amount for books and other necessary
  expenses are provided to student.
Reports:
  Students are required to submit their official transcripts as they are received. In
  addition, recipients must submit initial progress reports on forms supplied by
  IHS and notifications of problems/changes.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
                                                                                  1567
