  Indian Health Service Scholarship Branch, IHS, maintains records on all             
  students. Records are maintained for 4 years after the final award payment has      
  been made.                                                                          
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0390-0-1-551.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,519,107; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $17,500 to $26,019; $17,366.                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  It is estimated that 98 continuation scholarship awards will be funded in fiscal    
  years 2007.                                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  42 CFR 36.320 - 36 324. Final Rules and Regulations, the Indian Health Care         
  Improvement Act, Public Law 94-437, published in the Federal Register on            
  November 18, 1977.                                                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for Indian Health Service Area Offices.              
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: Ms. Patrcia Lee-McCoy, Scholarship Branch, Division of             
  Health Professions Support, 801 Thompson Avenue, Suite 450A, Rockville, MD          
  20852. Telephone: (301) 443-6197. Grants Contact: Ms. Lois Hodge, Grants            
  Management Officer, Division of Grants Operations, Indian Health Service, 801       
  Thompson Avenue, TMP, Suite 360, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (301)              
  443-0243. Use the same numbers for FTS.                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.ihs.gov .                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  In fiscal year 2005, continuing scholarship recipients will be funded in the pre-   
  professional categories of pre-nursing, pre-medical technology, pre-physical        
  therapy, pre- engineering, pre-sanitation, and pre-pharmacy only.                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applicant must be American Indian or Alaska Native. Other elements                  
  considered are: (1) Academic performance; (2) faculty recommendation; (3)           
  stated reasons for asking for the scholarship; (4) goals of the individual; and (5) 
  the relative needs of the IHS and Indian health organizations for persons in        
  specific health professions are taken under consideration.                          
                                                                                      
93.972 HEALTH PROFESSIONS SCHOLARSHIP                                                 
                                                                                      
PROGRAM                                                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  INDIAN HEALTH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                               
  SERVICES                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Indian Health Care Amendments of 1988, Section 104.                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide scholarships to American Indians and Alaska Natives at health            
  professions schools in order to obtain health professionals to serve Indians.       
  Upon completion, scholarship recipients are obligated to serve in the Indian        
  Health Service or an Indian health organization for each year of support with a     
  minimum of 2 years.                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Scholarships support students who pursue full-time or part-time courses of study    
  in health professions needed by the Indian Health Service (IHS). Disciplines        
  have included allopathic and osteopathic medicine, dentistry, nursing               
  (baccalaureate and graduate), public health nutrition (graduate), medical social    
  work (graduate), speech pathology/audiology (graduate), optometry,                  
  pharmacology and health care administration. Not all disciplines participate        
  each year. Scholarships may not be awarded to students who have conflicting         
  service obligations after graduation or who are not enrolled members of             
  Federally-recognized tribes. Recipients are required to perform 1 year of           
  obligated service for each year of scholarship support, with a minimum              
  obligation of 2 years in the Indian Health Service, or in a program conducted       
  under a contract entered into under the Indian Self-Determination Act; or in an     
  Indian health organization assisted under Title V of the Indian Health Care         
  Improvement Act; or in private practice in a Health Manpower Shortage Area          
  which addresses the health care needs of a substantial number of Indians.           
  Deferment for internship, residency, or other advanced clinical training for        
  medical, osteopathy, and dental students is generally not to exceed 3 years,        
  consistent with the specialty needs of the IHS. Currently, 4-year deferments may    
  be granted for obstetrics- gynecology and psychiatry residencies.                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Individuals of American Indian or Alaska Native who are enrolled members of a       
  Federally-recognized tribe are eligible. Applicants for new awards: (1) must be     
  accepted by an accredited U.S. educational institution for a full-time or part-time 


1568                                                                            11-08

  course of study leading to a degree in medicine, osteopathy, dentistry, or other
  participating health profession which is deemed necessary by the Indian Health
  Service; (2) be eligible for or hold an appointment as a Commissioned Officer in
  the Regular or Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service; or (3) be eligible for
  civil service in the Indian Health Service.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals of American Indian or Alaska Native who are enrolled members of
  Federally-recognized tribe; full-time students of medicine or other health
  professions; prospective or currently Commissioned Officers in the Regular or
  Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service; and eligible civilians of the Indian
  Health Service.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Students claiming Indian priority must submit proper certification and
  documentation as specified in the application. All applicants must provide
  transcripts of their latest academic work. All incoming freshmen are to provide
  copies of acceptance letters for enrollment in school.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication coordination is not required. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application forms and instructions are provided by the Indian Health Service
  Scholarship Program, acting through the IHS Area offices.
Award Procedure:
  Priority will be given to applicants who are prior recipients. Special
  consideration is given to junior and senior level students whose specialty plans
  are in primary care fields. Criteria which determine competitive ranking fawards
  may include: (1) work experience, preferably health-related in communities of
  health care need; (2) personal background from a community of health care
  need; (3) career goals of primary care practice in service to Indians; and, (4)
  academic performance. Student financial need does not affect selection.
Deadlines:
  Contact IHS Area offices for application deadlines. New applications are
  available to interested individuals usually in February with a submission
  deadline of April 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants notified by July 31.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Continuation applications must be submitted annually. Continued funding
  subject to availability of funds and satisfactory performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Tuition payments and fees are paid upon receipt of invoices from the
  universities. Stipend payments are paid monthly for the 12-month academic
  period. An amount for books and other necessary expenses is provided to the
  student. Maximum length of funding is a total of 4 years.
Reports:
  Students are required to submit of their official transcripts as they are received.
  In addition, recipients must submit initial and mid-term progress reports on
  forms supplied by IHS. Annual reports are required from schools indicating
  average student educational expense.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  The Indian Health Service Scholarship Program, maintains records for 7 years
  following completion of obligated service or other disposition of the scholarship
  obligation.
Account Identification:
  75-0390-0-1-551.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $9,603,857; FY 08 $9,603,857; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $24,128 to $38,222; $24,694.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2006, approximately 78 new and 196 continuing scholarships were
  awarded. Approximately the same number of awards will be funded in fiscal
  years 2007 and 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  42 CFR 36.330-36.334. Final rules and regulations, the Indian Health Care
  Improvement Act, Public Law 94-437, published in the Federal Register on
  November 18, 1977.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for Indian Health Service Area Program Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Ms. Pat Lee-McCoy, IHS Scholarship Program, Division of
  Health Professions Support, Indian Health Service, 801 Thompson Avenue,
  Suite 120, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone: (301) 443-6197. Grants
  Management Contact: Ms. Kimberly Pendleton, Senior Grants Management
