  and many large local health departments (New York, Chicago, Los Angeles),        
  have ongoing disease control programs utilizing these grants. Sexually           
  transmitted disease project funds supplement the detection and prevention        
  components of the STD control efforts of State and local government agencies.    
  Activities include reporting, screening, case finding and case follow-up         
  activities, interstate epidemiologic referral, and education activities. The     
  provision of diagnostic/treatment services for STD are not normally supported    
  by project funds and are considered the responsibility of the grantee            
  organization.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Applications will be evaluated based upon the magnitude of the problem, the      
  establishment of specific and measurable objectives to address the problem, and  
  the development of a sound operational plan which will ensure the                
  implementation of each program element.                                          
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
93.978 PREVENTIVE HEALTH SERVICES-SEXUALLY

                                                                                   
TRANSMITTED DISEASES RESEARCH,                                                     
DEMONSTRATIONS, AND PUBLIC INFORMATION AND                                         
EDUCATION GRANTS                                                                   
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT                           
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Public Health Service Act, Section 318b, 42 U.S.C. 247c, as amended; Disease     
  Control Amendments of 1972, Public Law 92-449; Disease Control                   
  Amendments of 1976, Public Law 94-317; Health Services and Centers               
  Amendments of 1978, Public Law 95-626; Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act         
  of 1981, as amended, Public Law 97-35; Departments of Labor, Health and          
  Human Services, and Education, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of        
  1988, Public Law 100-202.                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To develop, improve, apply, and evaluate methods for the prevention and control  
  of gonorrhea, chlamydia, syphilis, and other sexually-transmitted diseases (STD) 
  through demonstrations and applied research; to develop, improve, apply, and     
  evaluate methods and strategies for public information and education about       
  syphilis, gonorrhea, chlamydia and other STD, and to support professional        
  (including appropriate allied health personnel) STD education, training, and     
  clinical skills improvement activities.                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants.                                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  Grant funds may be used for: (1) The costs associated with planning, organizing, 
  and conducting applied research, demonstrations, and education programs; (2)     
  professional (including appropriate allied health personnel) STD education,      
  training, and clinical skills improvement activities; and (3) to reimburse       
  individuals asked to be participants in the applied research. Such               
  reimbursements must be submitted for specific approval. Grant funds may not      
  be used for supplanting funds supporting existing STD control services provided  
  by a State or locality. Proposals for applied research involving human subjects  
  must follow current Public Health Service (PHS) and Centers for Disease          
  Control and Prevention (CDC) guidelines on human experimentation.                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  Any State, political subdivisions of States, and any other public or private     
  nonprofit institutions including American Indian/Alaska Native tribal            
  governments or tribal organizations located wholly or in part within their       
  boundaries.                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Any State, political subdivisions of States, and any other public or private     
  nonprofit institutions including American Indian/Alaska Native tribal            
  governments or tribal organizations located wholly or in part within their       
  boundaries.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, describe the evaluation      
  procedures, and provide a budget with justification of funds requested. Costs    
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and        
  local governments. For other grantees, costs will be determined in accordance    
  with 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q.                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.         
Application Procedure:                                                             
  To apply for this funding opportunity, use application form PHS 398 (OMB         
  number 0925-0001 rev. 5/2001). Forms and instructions are available in an        
  interactive format on the CDC web site, at the following Internet address:       
  www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm. Submit the signed original and five copies      
  of your application by mail or express delivery service to: Technical Information
  Management, CDC Procurement and Grants Office, 2920 Brandywine Road,             
  Atlanta, GA 30341. The standard application forms 5161 must be used for the      
  program as furnished by CDC and required by 45 CFR 92 for state and local        


                                                                              11-08
  governments and by 45 CFR 74 for nongovernmental applicants. The standard
  application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by 45 CFR, Part 92 for
  State and local governments, must be used for this program. This program is
  subject to the provisions of 45 CFR, Part 92 for State and local governments and
  OMB Circular No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations, as appropriate.
Award Procedure:
  Applications that are complete and responsive to the announcement will be
  evaluated for scientific and technical merit by an appropriate peer review group
  convened by the NCIPC in accordance with the review criteria listed above. As
  part of the initial merit review, all applications may: 1) Undergo a process in
  which only those applications deemed to have the highest scientific merit,
  generally the top half of the applications under review, will be discussed and
  assigned a priority score; 2) receive a written critique; and 3) receive a second
  level review by the Science and Program Review Subcommittee (SPRS) of the
  Advisory Committee for Injury Prevention and Control (ACIPC). Successful
  applicants will receive a Notice of Grant Award (NGA) from the CDC
  Procurement and Grants Office. The NGA shall be the only binding, authorizing
  document between the recipient and CDC. The NGA will be signed by an
  authorized Grants Management Officer, and mailed to the recipient fiscal officer
  identified in the application.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Headquarters Office for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From three to four months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Same as in Application Procedure.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project period: From one to five years; budget period: 12 months.
Reports:
  Quarterly and annual performance reports are required. Financial status reports
  are required no later than 90 days after the end of each specified reporting
  period. Final financial status and progress reports are required 90 days after the
  end of a project.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the grant program shall be retained for a minimum of 3
  years, or until completion and resolution of any audit in process or pending
  resolution. In all cases records must be retained until resolution of any audit
  questions. Property records must be retained in accordance with PHS Grants
  Policy Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $5,727,536; FY 08 est $4,685,883; and FY 09 est $4,810,883.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $288,422 to $575,096; $492,713.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2001, funds supported grants for the following activities:
  demonstration projects to develop alternative service modes for STD diagnosis
  and treatment and to develop innovative methods for syphilis control, applied
  research projects supporting research into treatment, complication and outcome
  of congenital syphilis, development of treatment and control strategies for
  chlamydia, development of diagnostic test evaluations for genital warts;
  development of control programs for human papiloma virus, behavioral research
  into barriers to condom usage in high-risk populations and a public and
  professional educational initiative to support a clinic based prevention project
  among high-risk ethnic groups. In fiscal year 2001, 10 grants were awarded to
  support STD/HIV Prevention Training Centers. It is estimated that 10 awards
  will be made in fiscal year 2002 and 10 awards will be made in fiscal year 2003.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations governing this program are published under 42 CFR 51b.
  Guidelines are available. PHS Grants Policy Statement, DHHS Publication No.
  (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994, is available.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
                                                                                 1571
