  Law 97-35.                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  Provide resources to state health departments to: 1) Determine the size and       
  nature of diabetes-related problems and why they exist; 2) develop and evaluate   
  new strategies for diabetes prevention; 3) establish partnerships to prevent      
  diabetes problems; 4) increase awareness of diabetes prevention and control       
  opportunities among the public, the health care and business communities, and     
  people with diabetes; 5) improve access to quality care in order to prevent,      
  detect and treat diabetes complications; 6)emphasize prevention of                
  complications and premature mortlality among people with diabetes; and            
  7)utilize a model of influence by linking new programs and existing programs      
  that support social and environmental policies for the promotion of wellness in   
  both people with diabetes and those at risk for diabetes.                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Cooperative Agreement funds may be used for costs associated with planning,       
  implementing, and evaluating State based diabetes control programs.               
  Cooperative Agreement funds may not be used for direct curative or                
  rehabilitative services.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Eligible applicants are the official State and territorial health agencies of the 
  United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the     
  Virgin Islands, Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Federated States of       
  Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palau, and      
  American Samoa.                                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  State health agencies will benefit.                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the   
  project, outline the method of operation, describe evaluation procedures, and     
  provide a budget with justification for funds requested. Costs will be determined 
  in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Preapplication coordination is not required. Applications are subject to the      
  review requirements of the National Health Planning and Resources                 
  Development Act of 1974 as amended by the Health Planning and Resources           
  Development Act of 1979. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.         
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should        
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.        
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Information on the submission of applications may be obtained from the Grants     
  Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and Grants              
  Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road,         
  Room 3000, Atlanta, GA 30341. This program is subject to the provisions of 45     
  CFR 92. The standard application forms, as furnished by PHS and required by       
  45 CFR 92 for State and local governments, must be used for this program.         
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  After review and approval, a notice of award is prepared and processed, along     
  with appropriate notification to the public.                                      
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact Headquarters Office for applications deadline.                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  From 3 to 4 months.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  Same as Application Procedure.                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Funds for a Capacity Building Diabetes Control Programs have a matching           
  requirement; matching funds must be from nonfederal sources in an amount not      
  less than $1 for every $5 of Federal funds awarded and $1 for every $4 of         
  Federal Funds awarded for each Basic Implementation Diabetes Control              
  Program Award.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  For 5 years. Budget period: Approximately 12 months.                              
Reports:                                                                            
  Progress reports are required annually. A plan of action is required annually.    
  Special studies will require protocols, subject to approval. Financial status     
  reports are required no later than 90 days after the end of each specified funding
  period. Final financial status and progress reports are required 90 days after the
  end of a project.                                                                 
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        


                                                                               11-08
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, grants and cooperative agreements are
  subject to inspection and audits by DHHS and other Federal government
  officials.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other
  records pertinent to the cooperative agreement program shall be retained for a
  minimum of 3 years, or until completion and resolution of any audit in process
  or pending resolution. In all cases, records must be retained in accordance with
  PHS Grants Policy Statement requirements.
Account Identification:
  75-0943-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  (Grants) Financial Assistance: FY FY 07 $29,858,629 DA $ est not available;
  FY 08 est FA $29,858,629, DA $ est not available; and FY 09 est 29,828,106.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Capacity Building Programs: $75,000 to $350,000; $250,000. Basic
  Implementation Programs: $300,000 to $800,000; $500,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Fiscal year 2003 CDC announced the availability of funds to continue the
  diabetes program for a five year funding period till 2008. This announcement
  will continue to emphasize prevention and complications and premature
  mortality among people with diabetes. Program will continue to incorporate a
  model of influence by linking new programs and existing programs that support
  social and environmental policies for the promotion of wellness in both people
  with diabetes and those at risk for diabetes. Awards were made in two
  categories: Capacity Building (Core) and Basic Implementation
  (Comprehensive) Presently there will be 31 Capacity Building and 28 Basic
  Implementation. It is anticipated that with future funds CDC expects to contiue
  funding the state-based diabetes proventiona nd control programs for another
  five-year budget cycle.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  There are no regulations, but guidelines are available. HHS Grants Policy
  Statement, DHHS Publication No. (OASH) 94-50,000, (Rev.) April 1, 1994,
  applies to cooperative agreements.
Regional or Local Office:
  Program Contact: Mr. Russ Sniegowski, Acting Chief, Program Development
  Branch, Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease
  Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers of Health and Human Services, 1600
  Clifton Road, NE., Atlanta, GA 30333. Telephone: (770) 488-5033. Grants
  Management Contact: Nealeen Austin, Grants Management Officer, Grants
  Management Branch, Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine Road, Room 3000, Atlanta, GA
  30341. Telephone: (770) 488- 2722.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Mr. Russ Sniegowski, Division of Diabetes Translation,
  National Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers
  for Disease Control and Prevention, Public Health Service, Department of
  Health and Human Services, 1600 Clifton Road, NE., Atlanta, GA 30333.
  Telephone: (770) 488-5033. Grants Management Contact: Nealean Austin,
  Grants Management Officer, Grants Management Branch, Procurement and
  Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Public Health
  Service, Department of 2929 Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341 Telephone:
  (770) 488-2722.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  93.283, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention_Investigations and
  Technical Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  All funded projects are State-Based Diabetes Control Programs. Each
  State/Territory-Based Diabetes Control Program works to integrate diabetes
  prevention and control activities into existing and evolving health care systems.
  Examples of funded activities included in State DCP projects includes; (1)
  Media campaigns, (2) community based projects aimed at high risk populations,
  (3) partnerships with managed care organizations implementing quality of care
  standards, (4) Quality Improvement projects to insure the use of standards of
  care, and (5) utilization of school networks to implement diabetes education
  programs targeting children.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  For Capacity Building Programs: (1) The consistency of the work plan with the
  stated morbidity reduction purpose of the cooperative agreement. (2) The quality
  of the applicant's plans for the integration of the diabetes program elements into
  the health care delivery system at the community level. (3) The quality of the
  applicant's plans to develop and maintain the capacity to identify high-risk
  populations, define needs, and plan future program development. (4) The ability
  of the applicant to identify staff for the program who are capable and trained to
  carry out the required tasks. (5) The extent to which the budget is reasonable,
  consistent with the intended use of cooperative agreement funds, and includes
  evidence of the State's commitment to the program by matching financial and/or
                                                                                 1573
