  in- kind contributions from nonfederal sources to activities of the proposed          
  program. For Basic Implementation Programs: (1) Documented need and                   
  demonstrated capacity and infrastructure; (2) time-framed and measurable              
  objectives; (3) feasibility; appropriateness, and specificity of objectives; (4)      
  quality of evaluation plan; (5) quality of plan for statewide implementation; and     
  (6) quality of management plan.                                                       
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
93.989 INTERNATIONAL RESEARCH AND RESEARCH                                              
TRAINING                                                                                
   (International Research)                                                             
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND                               
  HUMAN SERVICES                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Public Health Service Act, Sections 301 and 405, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 241            
  and 284.                                                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  The John E. Fogarty International Center (FIC) supports research and research         
  training to reduce disparities in global health and to foster partnerships between    
  U.S. scientists and their counterparts abroad. FIC supports basic biological,         
  behavioral, and social science research, as well as related research training. The    
  research portfolio is divided into several programs that support a wide variety of    
  funding mechanisms to meet programmatic objectives.                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants; Training.                                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Grants and Research Training Grants provide funds for salaries, equipment,            
  supplies, travel, tuition, and other expenses associated with research training and   
  scientific investigation concerning global health issues. These grants are            
  awarded to universities; colleges; medical, nursing and dental schools; hospitals;    
  and other non-profit and for-profit institutions. Awards include grants,              
  cooperative agreements, international research training grants, and career            
  development awards.                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  In general, universities, colleges, hospitals, laboratories, Federal institutions and 
  other public or private non-profit and for-profit domestic and foreign                
  institutions, and State and local units of government are eligible to submit          
  applications for research grants, research training grants, cooperative               
  agreements, and career development awards. The grantee institution must agree         
  to administer the grant in accordance with prevailing regulations and policies.       
  The eligibility requirements may differ amongst FIC programs, based on the            
  eligibility section found in our Requests For Applications (RFAs) and Program         
  Announcements (PAs) at: http://www.fic.nih.gov/funding/index.htm .                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Any non-profit or for-profit organization, company or institution engaged in          
  health and biomedical research.                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Applications for research grants must present the objectives, methodology, and        
  resources for the specific research project, and must demonstrate the applicant's     
  competence and interest. For training grants, the applicant's academic record,        
  research experience, and the proposed area and plan of training must be included      
  in the application. The applicant institution must present the objectives, training   
  program, and resources for the research-training program, the research                
  qualifications and experience of directing staff in training students (the criteria   
  to be used in selecting individuals for awards), a detailed budget, and               
  justification for the amount of grants funds requested. Costs will be determined      
  in accordance with OMB Circular A-21 - Cost Principles for Educational                
  Institutions, Circular A-110 - Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants         
  and Other Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, OMB Circular A-           
  122 for Nonprofit Organizations, Circular A-102 - Grants and Cooperative              
  Agreements with State and Local Governments, and Circular A-87, Cost                  
  Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments. For-profit                 
  organizations' costs are determined in accordance with Subpart 31.2 of the            
  Federal Acquisition Regulations. For other than State and local government            
  grantees, costs will be determined by Health and Human Services (HHS)                 
  Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q.                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.              
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Standard application forms, as required by 45 CFR, Part 74 and 92, must be            
  used for this program. Detailed instructions for submitting applications to our       
  programs are provided in our Requests For Applications (RFAs) and Program             
  Announcements (PAs) at: http://www.fic.nih.gov/funding/index.htm .                    
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Applications are reviewed initially for scientific and technical merit. This is       
  followed by a second level review by the FIC Advisory Board.                          
Deadlines:                                                                              
  An application deadline date will appear in the RFA or PA for each competition.       


1574                                                                              11-08

  The RFAs and PAs can be found at: http://www.fic.nih.gov/funding/index.htm .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Grants: From six to nine months.
Appeals:
  A Principal Investigator (PI) may question the substantive or procedural aspects
  of the initial scientific review of his or her application by communicating with
  FIC staff.
Renewals:
  Non-competing renewal applications may be made for all multi-year awards.
  Applicants must submit their request on form PHS 2590 two months before the
  end of the last budget period. Competing renewal applications may be submitted
  only if allowed in the RFA or PA.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This Program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Approval of a project includes determination of support for the authorized
  project period (not to exceed five years). Awards to support the project are made
  on an annual basis. At the time of initial award, the grant provides funds for the
  conduct of the project during the first budget period (usually 12 months) and the
  Notice of Grant Award (Form PHS-1533) indicates the support recommended
  and expected to be made available for the remainder of the project beyond the
  approved project period. Funds are disbursed via the PMS Electronic Transfer
  System for domestic grantees, and by U.S. Treasury Check or Direct Deposit for
  foreign grantees. Loan Repayment Program Awards are for two years with the
  opportunity for renewal.
Reports:
  The grantee is responsible for annual progress reports. These reports are required
  for program analysis as part of all continuation applications. In addition, a final
  report must be filed within 90 days of the termination of the grant. The final
  report includes an account of progress made toward achievement of the
  originally stated aims; a list of the significant results; and a list of publications
  resulting from the projects. For most projects, a financial status report must be
  filed 90 days after each competitive segment. Reports must be provided to FIC
  staff in accordance with the CFR Title 42 Part 52 - Grants for Research Projects
  and the CFR Title 45 Part 74 - Uniform Administrative Requirements for grants
  and cooperative agreements.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," non-Federal entities
  that receive $500,000 or more per year in Federal awards will have a single or a
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Non-Federal entities that expend
  less than $500,000 per year in Federal awards are exempt from these audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133. In addition,
  grants and cooperative agreements are subject to inspection and audits by DHHS
  and other Federal government officials. Loan Repayment Program awards will
  be audited prior to the end of the contract, or as needed.
Records:
  Expenditures and other financial records must be retained for three years from
  the day on which the grantee submits the last expenditure report for the report
  period.
Account Identification:
  75-0819-0-1-552.
Obligations:
  (Grants, Cooperative Agreements, and Career Awards) FY 07 $50,033,000; FY
  08 est $50,100,000; and FY 09 not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range and Average of Financial Assistance: Recipients of FIC regular research
  grants, education project grants, and international training grants receive from
  $100,000 to $1,300,000. Recipients of FIC Career Development Awards receive
  from $50,000 to $150,000. Recipients of FIC Cooperative Agreements may
  receive from $300,000 to $700,000. Recipients of FIRCA small grant awards
  receive from $30,000 to $45,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  AIDS International Training and Research Program: In FY 2007, 27 awards
  were made. In FY 2008, 26 awards are expected to be made. Brain Disorders in
  the Developing World: In FY 2007, 2 awards were made. FIC expects to fund 4
  awards in FY 2008. Collaborative Trauma and Injury Research Training
  Program: 12 awards were made in FY 2007. In FY 2008, FIC expects to make
  12 awards. Ecology of Infectious Diseases Program: In FY 2007, five awards
  were made. Three awards are expected to be made in FY 2008. Fogarty
  International Clinical Research Scholars Resource and Support Center: This
  award was made for the first time FY 2007. One award was made in FY 2007
  and one award is expected to be made in FY 2008. Fogarty International
  Research Collaboration Award: In FY 2007, 100 awards were made. In FY
  2008, FIC expects to make 100 awards. Framework Programs for Global Health:
  In FY 2007, 22 awards were made. FIC expects to make seven awards in FY
  2008. Global Health Research Initiative Program for New Foreign Investigators:
  47 awards were made in FY 2007. 37 awards are expected to be made in FY
  2008. Global Infectious Disease Research Training Program: 39 training grants
  were made in FY 2007. FIC expects to make 29 awards in FY 2008. Informatics
