  Training for Global Health Program: In FY 2007, six awards were made. FIC           
  expects to make six awards in FY 2008. International Clinical, Operational and      
  Health Services Research and Training Award: In FY 2007, 13 awards were             
  made. 13 awards are expected to be made in FY 2008. International Clinical,         
  Operational and Health Services Research and Training Award for HIV/AIDS            
  and Tuberculosis: In FY 2007, 12 awards were made. FIC expects to make 12           
  awards in FY 2008. International Cooperative Biodiversity Groups Program: In        
  FY 2007, seven awards were made. All seven awards were U01 (cooperative             
  agreements). Three U01 awards are expected to be made in FY 2008.                   
  International Malaria Clinical, Operational and Health Services Research            
  Training Program Planning Grants: In FY 2007, one planning grant was made.          
  FIC expects to fund three planning grants in FY 2008. International Research        
  Ethics Education and Curriculum Development Award: In FY 2007, 15 training          
  grants were awarded. FIC plans to make six awards in FY 2008. International         
  Research Scientist Development Award: In FY 2007, 11 awards were made.              
  Seven awards are expected to be made in FY 2008. International Studies on           
  Health and Economic Development Program: One award was made in FY 2007.             
  FIC expects to fund one award in FY 2008. International Tobacco and Health          
  Research and Capacity Building Program: 18 grants were made in FY 2007. 18          
  awards are expected to be made in FY 2008. International Training and               
  Research in Environmental and Occupational Health Program: In FY 2007, 16           
  awards were made. FIC expects to fund 16 awards in FY 2008. International           
  Training and Research in Population and Health Program: In FY 2007, 10              
  awards were made. 10 awards are expected to be made in FY 2008. Stigma and          
  Global Health Research Program: In FY 2007, three awards were made.08, FIC          
  expects to make 6 awards each fiscal year.                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  The grant program legislation and program regulations cited in the Notice of        
  Grant Award, the restrictions on the expenditure of Federal funds in                
  appropriations acts, to the extent those restrictions are pertinent to the award, 45
  CFR Part 74 or 45 CFR Part 92, as applicable, the NIH Grants Policy Statement,      
  including addenda in effect as of the beginning date of the budget period, and      
  the terms and conditions on the notice of grant award. Information regarding FIC    
  programs can be found at: http://www.nih.gov/fic/programs.html.                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Fogarty International Center, National Institutes of Health, Department of Health   
  and Human Services, Building 31, Room B2C39, MSC 2220, Bethesda, MD                 
  20892-2220. Potential applicants are encouraged to visit the FIC website at:        
  http://www.fic.nih.gov/funding/index.htm to obtain more information regarding

  these programs. FIC Telephone number for more information: (301) 496-1653.

Web Site Address:

                                                                                      
  http://www.fic.nih.gov .                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Given the interdisciplinary nature of global health challenges, the FIC             
  systematically seeks alliances with other Federal agencies, international           
  organizations, development agencies, and non-government organizations. The          
  AIDS International Training and Research Program (AITRP), led by FIC and in         
  partnership with nine NIH institutes, supports research training that is critical to
  advancing the AIDS research agenda abroad. For example, with FIC support,           
  investigators at the University of Nairobi and University of Washington have        
  evaluated the rates of HIV transmission to infants through breastfeeding. In the    
  new study, pregnant HIV-infected women joined groups that would either              
  breastfeed or formula feed their infants. Among infants born to mothers in the      
  breast-feeding group the risk of becoming HIV-infected increased by 76% in          
  contrast to the formula fed group. Overall, 44 % of the HIV infections in infants   
  born to mothers in the breastfeeding group were due to breast milk. This study      
  clearly shows the need to prevent breast milk transmission and has major            
  implications for development and deployment of public health interventions in       
  resource-poor settings. Additional studies are now underway to address the          
  related and complex social and economic implications on infant feeding. The         
  International Cooperative Biodiversity Groups (ICBG) program is a unique            
  effort, administered by the FIC, to integrate improvement of human health           
  through drug discovery, incentives for ecological conservation, and new models      
  of sustainable economic activity that focus on the environment, health, and         
  equity. This program is based on the belief that the discovery and development      
  of pharmaceutical and other useful agents from natural products can, under          
  appropriate circumstances, promote sustained economic growth in developing          
  countries while conserving the biological habitats from which these products are    
  derived. The ICBG program is a partnership amongst nine Institutes and Centers      
  of the National Institutes of Health (NIH), as well as the National Science         
  Foundation (NSF) and the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA). Seven               
  ICBGs are currently working in nine countries across Latin America, Africa and      
  Asia, building research capacity in more than 16 different institutions and         
  training hundreds of individuals. To date, over 5,000 species of plants, animals    
  and microorganisms have been examined for biological activity in more than 22       
  different therapeutic areas. Numerous publications in chemistry, biodiversity       


                                                                                 11-08
  policy, conservation and ethnobiology have emerged from the funded ICBG
  groups. An example of such accomplishment includes efforts by researchers at
  Walter Reed Army Institute of Research to characterize a new mode of action for
  treatments against leishmaniasis and related parasitic diseases, and isolate
  promising lead compounds for this and other areas from traditional plant use in
  West Africa. Another example can be found in the stimulus and coordination of
  efforts for a new marine and terrestrial national park in Panama to protect 2600
  square kilometers containing high biodiversity and many endemic species that
  will preserve the habitat for research projects like the ICBG, as well as other
  non-destructive activities. ICBG research and conservation initiatives are
  partially credited for this government's decision to establish Coiba National
  Park. In 2005, this park was designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site. FIC
  established an interagency, interdisciplinary research program in FY 2000 on
  ecology and infectious diseases. The first 12 projects supported by this
  interdisciplinary program will assess how large-scale man-made environmental
  events, such as habitat destruction, urban sprawl, water pollution, introduced
  species and agricultural intensification, all contribute to the emergence and
  spread of emerging infectious diseases in animals and humans. With FIC
  support, scientists at Case
  WesternReserveUniversity and the Institute of Medical Research in Papua New
  Guinea have discovered a new mutation in a gene for the Duffy blood group that
  reduces susceptibility of red blood cells to malaria caused by Plasmodium vivax
  (P.vivax). This parasite must interact with the Duffy blood group factor on cells
  in order to infect them. Genetic epidemiologists have demonstrated that
  individuals with two copies of the mutant gene are resistant to P.vivax infection.
  Targeting the parasite's Duffy-binding protein and its interaction with the Duffy
  blood group may be a productive strategy for developing a vaccine for vivax
  malaria. The insights from this study not only suggest that it is feasible, but
  represent a conceptual model for addressing the more virulent malaria parasite,
  Plasmodium falciparum.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The major elements in evaluating proposals include assessment of: (1) the
  scientific merit and general significance of the proposed study or research
  training program and its objectives; (2) the technical adequacy of the
  experimental design and approach; (3) the competency of the proposed
  investigator or group to successfully pursue the project; (4) the adequacy of the
  available proposed facilities and resources; (5) the necessity of the budget
  components requested in relation to the proposed project; and (6) the relevance
  and importance to the announced program objectives. All pertinent evaluation
  criteria are provided in the RFAs and PAs.
93.990 NATIONAL HEALTH PROMOTION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN
  SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Service Act, as amended, Title III, Section 301, Title XVII,
  Section 1701, 42 U.S.C. 300 k-1, 300(o).
OBJECTIVES:
  To engage national membership organizations from various sectors as a means
  of expanding and coordinating health promotion efforts. To promote the
  development, implementation and coordination of programs that promote good
  health habits and programs that are designed to prevent disease and disability.
  These objectives are consistent with the General Authorities set forth in Sections
  1701(a) and 301 of the Public Health Service Act.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance must be provided to satisfy program needs of the National Health
  Promotion Program, including but not limited to: (1) identifying or developing
  materials for health promotion programs for use by schools, medical treatment
  sites, worksites, and community health promotion programs; (2) adding to the
  scientific data base, especially to fill gaps identified in the "Healthy People
  2010: National Health Promotion and Disease Prevention Objectives"; and (3)
  identifying the needs of special population groups, such as Blacks, Hispanics,
  Asian/Pacific Islanders, American Indians/Alaska Natives, those with disabilities
  or special health care needs, and elderly Americans.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public or private nonprofit organizations. Faith based organizations are eligible
  to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proof of nonprofit status is required. Costs will be determined by HHS
  Regulations 45 CFR, Part 74, Subpart Q.
Preapplication Coordination:
  There are no preapplication requirements. This program is eligible for coverage
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of
                                                                                 1575
