Application Procedure:                                                                
  Each State shall submit an application to the funding agency. Specific format is    
  required, and forms are provided.                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications are reviewed for completeness and for compliance with legislative      
  requirements. Award is made to the applicant by the Centers for Disease Control     
  and Prevention.                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Applications will be accepted beginning on October 1 of the eligible fiscal year.   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  About 3 weeks.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  For the basic block grant, an allocation percentage is determined for each State    
  based on the amounts of fiscal year 1981 funds provided to the State for certain    
  categorical health grants that were combined to comprise the Preventive Health      
  and Health Services block grant to the total amount of fiscal year 1981 funds       
  appropriated for these grant programs. For the services to rape victims and the     
  Rape Prevention portion of the block grant, at least $7,000,000 is allocated to     
  States based on the percentage of each State's population to the national           
  population. States may set aside no more than 10 percent of block grant funds       
  for administrative costs. HHS can reserve a portion of a State's allotment for      
  certain qualifying Indian tribes or tribal organizations, in proportion to a State's
  allotment distributed to such tribes in fiscal year 1981.                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Each allotment is available for obligations over a 24-month period; payments are    
  made through the Electronic Transfer System.                                        
Reports:                                                                              
  Each State shall prepare and submit by February 1 of the following fiscal year      
  (120 days beyond the funded fiscal year) to the Secretary annual reports on its     
  activities to secure a record of the purposes for which funds were spent, and the   
  progress made toward achieving the purposes for which funds were provided.

Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                      
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as          
  noted in Circular No. A-133.                                                        
Records:                                                                              
  Each State must maintain records which are consistent with their State laws and     
  requirements.                                                                       
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0943-0-1-551.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $93,327,380 (FA: $92,897,391; DA: $429,989); FY 08                   
  $91,651,300; and FY 09 est not available.                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $20,685 to $6,847,385; $1,529,957. (Note: A formula based on fiscal year 1981       
  allocations to States is used for the annual basic grant allocation.)               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In Indiana, PHHSBG funds were used to support the School Physical Activity          
  and Nutrition Survey to obtain baseline data on nutrition and physical activity     
  habits of children. In Illinois, PHHSBG funds are supporting a new program          
  called HI TRACK to screen all newborns for congenital hearing loss before they      
  leave the hospital. In Kansas, the Center for Health and Wellness in northeast      
  Wichita used PHHSBG funds to provide 9,649 blood pressure checks and                
  referred 1,328 people for follow-up. In New York, PHHSBG funds support the          
  Childhood Lead Poisoning Program, which found 2,568 children to have                
  elevated blood lead levels. In Iowa, PHHSBG funds helped develop Lighten Up         
  Iowa to encourage people to adopt better nutrition and physical activity habits.    
  In Texas, PHHSBG funds were used to establish a Hearne Community Garden in          
  Robertson County to increase awareness of the importance of eating fruits and       
  vegetables. In Wisconsin, PHHSBG funds are helping rural health departments         
  develop multicounty environmental coalitions to eliminate food and water            
  contamination, radon, asbestos, and other human health hazards. In Nebraska,        
  only 22 (24%) of the 93 counties have a local health department. PHHSBG             
  funds were used to develop a strategic plan to increase awareness of the benefits   
  of a strong public health system. As a result, the state legislature allocated      
  funding to establish district health departments to provide services to the 71      
  counties that did not have a health department. In Ohio, PHHSBG funds               
  launched 21 cardiovascular health projects to increase the number of heart-         
  healthy communities in areas of Ohio at high risk for heart disease. In             
  California, PHHSBG funds helped to create The California Asthma Among               
  School-Aged Children Project. In Florida, the PHHSBG funds the Pasco                
  Community Intervention Program, which provides health screenings to migrant         


                                                                                 11-08
  farm workers of Mexican descent and promotes physical activity through
  programs such as Folklorico, an intergenerational dance program. In Minnesota,
  PHHSBG funds were used to develop teaching modules called the Core
  Essentials of Public Health: Applications for Public Health Nursing. CDC and
  PHHS Block Grantees worked cooperatively to develop the Grant Application
  and Reporting System (GARS). GARS is a dynamic accountability tool that
  formats basic PHHSBG information to identify the role that block grant dollars
  play in addressing health problems at state and local levels. GARS helps
  grantees establish health priorities and tie essential program activities to
  PHHSBG dollars that are spent on public health programs. The GARS
  applications and reports are submitted electronically to CDC via E-mail or a
  direct Internet connection.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 Code of Federal Regulations, Part 96 (Published in the Federal Register on
  July 6, 1982 and revised in the Federal Register, October 13, 1987).
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Program Contact: Ms. Audrey Williams, Project Officer, National Center for
  Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion (K30), Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention, Department of Health and Human Services, 4770
  Buford Highway, NE Atlanta, GA 30341-3724. Telephone: (770) 488-5941.
  Grants Management Contact: Veronica Davis, Grants Management Specialist,
  Procurement and Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention,
  2920 Brandywine Road, Room 3719, Atlanta, GA 30341. Telephone: (770) 488-
  2743.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Compliance with requirements of application procedure.
93.993 PUBLIC HEALTH RESEARCH ACCREDITATION
PROJECT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL AND PREVENTION, DEPARTMENT
  OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Sections 301 and 317(k)(2) of the Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. Section
  241 and 247b(k)(2), as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assess the role of accreditation of human research protection programs to
  enhance protections afforded to persons involved in the full-range of public
  health research programs, e.g., epidemiologic research, health services research,
  and social and behavioral intervention research, as well as traditional biomedical
  research and clinical trials. Voluntary accreditation is one component of a
  national oversight system for protection of human subjects.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This project will result in the development of pilot measures that can be used to
  assess the improvement of the ability of the public health infrastructure (such as
  State and local public health departments, schools of public health, and other
  public health research partners) to assess and monitor research involving human
  subjects. In year two, the pilot measures will be implemented in several
  locations, such as State or local health departments, schools of public health, or
  community-based organizations that engage in public health research, and will
  be evaluated for utility and feasibility in the public health setting. In year three,
  the measures will be refined and made available to public health research
  partners to document and evaluate the impact of accreditation as a process to
  improve protection of human subjects in public health research.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Assistance will be provided only to a public, private, for-profit, or nonprofit
  organization that is currently actively engaged in the process of accrediting
  human research protection programs that represent the full range of activities,
  which are applicable to State, and local public health departments.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public, private, for-profit, or nonprofit organization that is currently actively
  engaged in the process of accrediting human research protection programs that
  represent the full- range of activities, which are applicable to State, and local
  public health departments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should document the need for assistance, state the objectives of the
  project, present their approach to meeting the objectives, and outline the
  methods of operating. Costs will be determined in accordance with HHS
  Regulations 45 CFR 74, Subpart Q. For-profit organizations' cost are determined
                                                                                    1577
