  in accordance with the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR 31.                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Preapplication coordination is desired for research grants, but not required. This  
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Submit the signed original and two copies of PHS form 398. (OMB Number              
  0925-0001); adhere to the instructions on the Errata Instruction Sheet for PHS      
  398. Submit the application to: Technical Information Management, CDC               
  Procurement and Grants Office, 2920 Brandywine Road, Atlanta, GA 30341-             
  4146. Applications may not be submitted electronically.                             
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Approved grants are funded based on a priority score ranking from an                
  independent review group as well as availability of funds, secondary review and     
  such other significant programmatic factors deemed necessary and appropriate        
  by the agency. Initial award provides funds for the first budget period (usually    
  12 months) and Notice of Grant Award (Form PHS 5152-1) indicates support            
  recommended for remainder of project period (usually three to five years),          
  allocations for Federal funds by budget categories, and special conditions, if any.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  Applications shall be considered as meeting the deadline if they are received

  before 4:00 p.m. Eastern Time on the deadline date.

                                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 90 to 120 days.

Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Continuation awards within an approved project period will be made on the           
  basis of satisfactory progress as evidenced by required reports and the             
  availability of funds.                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Financial assistance is provided for a 12-month budget period with project          
  periods of up to three years subject to the availability of funds and satisfactory  
  progress of the grantee.                                                            
Reports:                                                                              
  Interim progress report, no less than 90 days before the end of the budget period.  
   The progress report will serve as your non-competing continuation application,     
  and must contain the following elements: (1) Current Budget Period Activities       
  Objectives; (2) Current Budget Period Financial Progress; (3) New Budget            
  Period Program Proposed Activity Objectives; (4) Detailed Line-Item Budget          
  and Justification; and (5) Additional Requested Information. Financial status       
  report, no more than 90 days after the end of the budget period. Final financial    
  and performance reports, no more than 90 days after the end of the project          
  period.                                                                             
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt for Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133. In addition, these grants are subject to inspection and      
  audits by DHHS and other Federal officials.                                         
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other         
  records pertinent to the project must be kept readily available to review by        
  personnel authorized to examine PHS grant accounts. Records must be                 
  maintained for a minimum of 3 years after the end of a budget period. If            
  questions still remain, such as those raised as a result of an audit, records must  
  be retained until completion or resolution of any audit in process or pending       
  resolution. Property records must be retained until the matter is completely        
  resolved.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0943-0-1-550.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported.                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  None.                                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  For general questions about this announcement, contact: Technical Information       
  Management, CDC Procurement and Grants Office, 2920 Brandywine Road,                
  Atlanta, GA 30341-4146, Telephone: (770) 488-2700. For business                     
  management and budget assistance, contact: Mattie Jackson, Procurement and          


1578                                                                            11-08

  Grants Office, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 2920 Brandywine
  Road, Atlanta, GA 30341-4146, Telephone: (770) 488-2696, E-mail:
  MJackson2@cdc.gov . For program technical assistance, Contact: Marylin
  Radke, MD, MPH, Office of the Chief Science Officer, Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention, MS D-50, 1600 Clifton Road, N.E., Atlanta, GA 30333;
  Telephone: (404) 639-7260, E-mail: mzr4@cdc.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.cdc.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be evaluated based upon the applicant's ability to identify a
  plan that will achieve the purpose of the program, background and qualifications
  of staff, measurable objectives, adequacy of methods to achieve objectives,
  Evaluation plan, timeline and the overall budget.
93.994 MATERNAL AND CHILD HEALTH SERVICES
BLOCK GRANT TO THE STATES
   (MCH Block Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Social Security Act, Title V, Section 501(a) (1), as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To enable States to maintain and strengthen their leadership in planning,
  promoting, coordinating and evaluating health care for pregnant women,
  mothers, infants, and children and children with special health care needs in
  providing health services for mothers and children who do not have access to
  adequate health care.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  States may use funds to develop systems of care for the provision of health
  services and related activities, including planning, administration, education and
  evaluation consistent with the State's annual application. Funds may not be used
  for (1) Inpatient services other than those provided to children with special
  health care needs or to high-risk pregnant women and infants and such other
  inpatient services as the Secretary may approve; (2) cash payments to intended
  recipients for health services; (3) purchase and improvement of land,
  construction or permanent improvement of buildings or purchase of major
  medical equipment; (4) matching other Federal grants; or (5) providing funds for
  research or training to any entity other than a public or private nonprofit entity.
  Beginning in FY 1991, States must use at least 30 percent of their Federal
  allotment for preventive and primary care services for children, and at least 30
  percent for services for children with special health care needs. In addition, each
  State must establish and maintain a toll-free information number for parents on
  maternal and child health (MCH) and Medicaid providers. No more than 10
  percent of each State's allotment may be used for administration.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Title V MCH Block Grants are limited to States and insular areas.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Mothers, infants, children, including CSHCN, and their families, particularly
  those of low-income.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Maternal and
  Child Health. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final
  selections for awards.
Award Procedure:
  Funds are allocated to States quarterly subsequent to the review and approval of
  the State application and Annual Report.
Deadlines:
  www.hrsa.gov .
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From one to two months.
Appeals:
