  None.                                                                            
Renewals:                                                                          
  Funds will be made available annually to any State submitting an acceptable      
  application.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  Funds are allocated among the States and jurisdictions in proportion to their    
  relative shares of funds received under eight antecedent programs in fiscal year 
  1981. When funding exceeds the amount appropriated in fiscal year 1983, the      
  additional funds are allocated in proportion to the poverty population under age 
  18. States must assure that $3 of State or local funds will be expended for      
  Maternal and Child Health purposes for every $4 of Federal funds allotted        
  through the formula mechanism.                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Funds are awarded each fiscal year in quarterly installments and remain          
  available for expenditure for the current and subsequent fiscal year.            
Reports:                                                                           
  Each State must prepare and submit an annual report on the activities            
  undertaken. Such reports will be in such form, and contain such information as   
  the Secretary may require.                                                       
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"   
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that 
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted 
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:                                                                           
  All records must be maintained until expiration of 3 years from the date of      
  submission of the final expenditure report. If questions remain following the 3- 
  uear period, such as those raised as a result of an audit or an on-going         
  enforcement action, recipients must retain records until the matter is completely
  resolved.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                            
  75-0350-0-1-550.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 $561,718,437; FY 08 est $551,241,460; and FY 09                   
  $553,702,453.                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  $151,665 to $44,452,058; $9,520,652.                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  All 59 States and jurisdictions were awarded grants in FY 06, FY 07, and FY 08.  
  The Maternal and Child Health Bureau has developed a web-based system of         
  reporting that captures data contained in the States' Block Grant                
  Application/Annual Reports. Designed initially to capture the qualitative        
  programmatic information of the States, it has been modified according to the    
  Bureau's performance measurement model to collect uniform quantitative data.     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 96 as applicable and    
  individual State Regulations.                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Program Contact: Division of State and Community Health, Maternal and Child      
  Health Bureau, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of       
  Health and Human Services, Room 18-31, Parklawn Building, 5600 Fishers           
  Lane, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-2204.                            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Grants Management Office: Rick Goodman, Director, Division of Grants             
  Management Operations, Health Resources and Services Administration,             
  Department of Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16.         
  Health Services Branch: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch: (301)      
  443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch: (301) 443-3288.                   
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  www.hrsa.gov.                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  93.110, Maternal and Child Health Federal Consolidated Programs.                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Each of the 59 States and jurisdictions determines its individual program

                                                                                   
  priorities under its Block grant.

                                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                   
  Not applicable.

                                                                                   
                                                                                   
93.995 ADOLESCENT FAMILY LIFE-DEMONSTRATION                                        
PROJECTS                                                                           
                                                                                   
   (AFL)                                                                           
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN                          
  SERVICES                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     


                                                                              11-08
  Public Health Service Act, Title XX, Section 2003, Public Law 104-193, Public
  Law 98-512, 42 U.S.C. 300z-2, as amended; Public Laws 101-517; and Public
  Law 95-35.
OBJECTIVES:
  To establish innovative, comprehensive, and integrated approaches to the
  delivery of care services for pregnant and parenting adolescents with primary
  emphasis on adolescents who are under 17 years of age. To promote abstinence
  from sexual relations through provision of age-appropriate education on
  sexuality and decision-making skills as the most effective method of preventing
  adolescent pregnancy and avoiding sexually transmitted diseases, including
  HIV/AIDS.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds for services under this program can only be used to: (1) Provide care
  services, prevention services, or both care and prevention services to eligible
  persons; (2) coordinate integrate and provide linkages among providers of care,
  prevention, and other services for eligible persons; (3) provide supplemental
  services to eligible persons in the community when existing services are not
  adequate or not available and are essential to the care of pregnant adolescents
  and/or to the prevention of adolescent sexual activity and adolescent pregnancy;
  (4) plan for the administration, evaluation, and coordination of pregnancy
  prevention services and programs of care for pregnant adolescents and
  adolescent parents to further the objectives of this legislation; and (5) fulfill
  assurances required for grant approval. Funded projects may not provide or
  subcontract for the provision of abortions or abortion counseling or referral (with
  exceptions).
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public (including city, county, regional, and State government) organizations;
  and private nonprofit organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  For prevention services: non-pregnant adolescents and their families. For care
  services: pregnant adolescents, infants, adolescent parents, and their families.
  Primary emphasis should be given to unmarried adolescents 17 years of age and
  under.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A nonprofit private entity must provide evidence of its nonprofit status.
  Allowability of costs charged to the grant will be determined in accordance with
  the following Cost Principles: OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational
  institutions, OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments, and OMB
  Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations. Faith based organizations are
  eligible to apply.
Preapplication Coordination:
  There is no preapplication coordination requirement. The Governor(s) of the
  State(s) in which the project is to be located is to be given 60 days in which to
  review and comment on applications for funding under this authority. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. This program is subject to the Public
  Health Systems Reporting Requirements.
Application Procedure:
  Application kits may be requested by calling (240) 453-8822 or writing to: Ms.
  Karen Campbell, Director, Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS) Office
  of Grants Management, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD
  20852. Applications should be submitted to: Ms. Karen Campbell, Director,
  Office of Public Health and Science (OPHS), Office of Grants Management,
  1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD 20852. Applications must be
  prepared using Form OPHS-1. This form is available in Adobe Acrobat format
  at the following website: http://www.cdc.gov/od/pgo/forminfo.htm . The Office
  of Public Health and Science (OPHS) provides multiple mechanisms for the
  submission of applications. Applicants will receive notification via mail from
  the OPHS Office of Grants Management confirming the receipt of applications
  submitted using any of these mechanisms. Applications submitted to the OPHS
  Office of Grants Management after the deadlines will not be accepted for review
  and will be returned to the applicant unread. The submission deadline will not be
  extended. Applications which do not conform to the requirements of the grant
  announcement will not be accepted for review and will be returned to the
  applicant. Applications may only be submitted electronically via the electronic
  submission mechanisms specified below. Any applications submitted via any
  other means of electronic communication, including facsimile or electronic mail,
  will not be accepted for review. While applications are accepted in hard copy,
  the use of the electronic application submission capabilities provided by the
  OPHS e-Grants system or the Grants.gov Web site Portal is encouraged.
  Information about this system is available on the OPHS e-Grants Web site,
  https://egrants.osophs.dhhs.gov.
Award Procedure:
  All applications and proposals are read by a panel of independent experts who
  make recommendations for action to the Office of Adolescent Pregnancy
                                                                                  1579
