  Programs. After considering the recommendation of this panel, the Deputy            
  Assistant Secretary for Population Affairs makes the final decision on the          
  funding of applications. All applicants are notified in writing of actions taken on 
  their applications. A Notice of Grant Award is issued for those applications that   
  are approved and funded.                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the Headquarters Office for application deadlines or visit our web page     
  at www.opa.osophs.dhhs.gov .                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 3 to 5 months.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewal awards may be approved pending availability of funding, and evidence

  of satisfactory progress and compliance.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Federal participation is limited to 70 percent of total project costs for the first 
  and second years and decreases in each subsequent year of funding.                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Grants may not exceed 5 years (subject to the availability of funds). Payments

                                                                                      
  will be made either on a monthly cash request basis or under the Electronic         
  Transfer System. Necessary instructions for the appropriate type of payment will    
  be issued at the time an award is made.                                             
Reports:                                                                              
  Grantees must submit annual and final progress and evaluation reports.              
  Expenditure reports are required 90 days after the end of each budget period.       
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                      
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  HHS and the Comptroller General of the United States or any of their authorized

                                                                                      
  representatives, shall have the right of access to any books, documents, papers,

                                                                                      
  or other records of a grantee, subgrantee, contractor, or subcontractor, which are

                                                                                      
  pertinent to the HHS grant, in order to make audits, examinations, excerpts and

                                                                                      
  transcripts. In accordance with 45 CFR, Part 74.53 and 45 CFR, Part 92,

                                                                                      
  grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records 3 years after the end

                                                                                      
  of a budget period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other action

                                                                                      
  involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period,

                                                                                      
  the records shall be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all

                                                                                      
  issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year period,

                                                                                      
  whichever is later.

                                                                                      
Account Identification:                                                               
  75-0120-0-1-550.

                                                                                      
Obligations:

                                                                                      
  (Grants) FY 07 $25,000,000; FY 08 est not available: and FY 09 est not

                                                                                      
  reported.

                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                      
  $250,000 to $375,000.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  None.                                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Contact: Ms. Johanna Nestor, Office of Adolescent Pregnancy                 
  Programs, Office of Population Affairs, Department of Health and Human              
  Services, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 700, Rockville, MD 20852. Telephone:          
  (240) 453-2828. Grants Management Contact: Karen Campbell, Director, Office         
  of Grants Management, Office of Public Health and Science, Department of            
  Health and Human Services, 1101 Wootton Parkway, Suite 550, Rockville, MD           
  20853, Telephone (240) 453-8822.                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.opa.osophs.dhhs.gov .                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  93.111, Adolescent Family Life Research Grants.                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Projects to provide care services, prevention services, or both care and            
  prevention services to eligible persons; projects to coordinate, integrate, and     
  provide linkages among providers of care, prevention, and other services for        
  eligible persons; projects to provide supplemental services where these services    
  are not adequate or not available to eligible persons and which are essential to    
  the care of pregnant adolescents and to the prevention of adolescent sexual         
  relations and adolescent pregnancy; and projects which test new approaches to       
  providing care and prevention services which are national in scope.                 




1580                                                                            11-08

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals must contain care and/or prevention services requirements specified in
  the statute. Priority will be given to applicants who: (1) Serve an area (a) where
  there is a high incidence of adolescent pregnancy, (b) where the incidence of
  low-income families is high, and (c) where the availability of programs for
  adolescents as specified in this act is low; (2) show evidence (a) for care
  services, of ability to deliver wide range of required services on single-site or
  network basis, or (b) for prevention services, ability to provide services targeted
  to population; (3) will utilize to maximum extent possible (a) existing programs
  and facilities, and (b) other sources of funding; (4) can demonstrate community
  commitment to the project; (5) have involved community in developing the
  project; (6) will demonstrate innovative approaches; and (7) demonstrate the
  reasonableness of the estimated cost considering the anticipated results.
93.996 BIOTERRORISM TRAINING AND CURRICULUM
DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM
   (BTCDP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HEALTH RESOURCES AND SERVICES ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND HUMAN SERVICES
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Health Security and Bioterrorism Preparedness and Response Act of
  2002, Public Law 107-188, Section 105, Education of Health Care Personnel;
  Training Regarding Pediatric Issues, Section 319F(g) of the Public Health
  Service Act as re-designated by Section 104(a)(2) of this Act.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop a health care workforce with the knowledge, skills, abilities and core
  competencies to: (1) recognize indications of a terrorist event; (2) meet the acute
  care needs of patients, including pediatric and other vulnerable populations, in a
  safe and appropriate manner; (3) participate in a coordinated, multidisciplinary
  response to terrorist events and other public health emergencies, and include
  consideration of surge capacity issues; and (4) rapidly and effectively alert the
  public health system of such an event at the community, State, and national
  level. Emergency preparedness and response issues include other forms of
  terrorism (such as the use of chemical, explosive, incendiary or nuclear agents
  against civilian populations), natural disasters and catastrophic accidents.
  Effective responses to public health emergencies require close collaboration
  among all types of health professionals involved in patient care including allied
  health professionals, medical and dental specialists, nurses, pharmacists, mental
  health and other professionals, the public health system, and the emergency
  response system. To achieve such a collaborative environment, it will be
  necessary to implement new and enhanced models of undergraduate/graduate
  curricula and continuing education and training for health professionals. The
  Bioterrorism Training and Curriculum Development Program (BTCDP) consists
  of two discrete foci of activity: 1) Provision of Continuing Education for
  Practicing Providers (CE); and 2) Curriculum Development in Health
  Professions Schools (CD). Each of the categories above must have a distinct and
  separate application.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements)
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Applicants shall demonstrate linkages and relationships with entities such as the
  CDC Public Health Preparedness and Response for Bioterrorism Program
  awardees, the HRSA National Bioterrorism Hospital Preparedness Program
  awardees and others that provide emergency preparedness and response training.
  Proposals shall indicate that the training supported with these funds will not only
  focus on the discipline specific knowledge, skills abilities and competencies
  needed to recognize, treat and efficiently report instances of a terrorist event, but
  will also prepare the learners to participate in a multidisciplinary terrorist
  response reflecting a two-tiered approach. Each course of study shall include
  both discipline-appropriate clinically oriented material and team coordination to
  respond to terrorist events. These activities will outline the integrated
  professional roles and responsibilities inherent in a community response and will
  include participation in drills, exercises and/or simulations occurring in the state
  or regions. Proposals addressing the continuing education component of this
  program shall involve at least three disciplines and shall establish and maintain a
  programmatic advisory board with members including representatives of the
  CDC Public Health Preparedness and Response for Bioterrorism Program, the
  HRSA National Bioterrorism Hospital Preparedness Program, an academic
  health center, other health professions schools and both service providers and
  consumers from the area served by the program. Proposals addressing the
  curriculum development component of this program shall show that funds
  awarded will be utilized in conjunction with no less than three health care
  disciplines. Whereas one school, the applicant, will be held responsible for
  implementing the curriculum, training must be used by no less than three
  disciplines. Applicants shall demonstrate collaboration with the Department of
  Homeland Security (DHS) National Response Plan, December 2004.
