  Drills/exercises in which BTCDP awardees participate shall be compliant with       
  the DHS National Incident Management System (NIMS).                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible Applicants For Continuing Education: The entities eligible to apply for   
  this program are academic health centers; other public or private nonprofit        
  accredited or licensed health professions schools; other educational entities such 
  as professional organizations and societies; private accrediting organizations;    
  other nonprofit institutions or entities including faith-based organizations and   
  community-based organizations; and multi-state or multi-institutional consortia    
  of various combinations of these eligible entities. Eligible Applicants For        
  Curricular Enhancement or Curriculum Development: The entities eligible to         
  apply for this program are public or private nonprofit accredited or licensed      
  health professions schools; other educational entities such as professional        
  organizations and societies; and other nonprofit institutions or entities including
  faith-based organizations and community-based organizations. To apply for          
  funding for Curriculum Development, an entity that is not a health professions     
  school must provide a written agreement with a health professions school           
  demonstrating that the health professions school will participate in carrying out  
  the project and will implement the newly developed or the modified/enhanced        
  curriculum. This agreement must describe the roles of the entity and               
  collaborating health professions school.                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  The entities eligible to apply for the Continuing Education focus are academic     
  health centers; other public or private nonprofit accredited or licensed health    
  professions schools; other educational entities such as professional organizations 
  and societies; private accrediting organizations; other nonprofit institutions or  
  entities including faith-based organizations and community-based organizations;    
  and multi-state or multi-institutional consortia of various combinations of these  
  eligible entities. The entities eligible to apply for the Curriculum Enhancement   
  or Curriculum Development focus are public or private nonprofit accredited or      
  licensed health professions schools; other educational entities such as            
  professional organizations and societies; and other nonprofit institutions or      
  entities including faith-based organizations and community-based organizations.    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants should review the individual HRSA Guidance documents issued             
  under this CFDA program for any required proof or certifications which must be     
  submitted prior to or simultaneous with submission of an application package.      
                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

  Grant applications and required forms for this program can be obtained from        
  Grants.gov. Please visit the Grants.gov Web site at www.grants.gov to both find    
  and apply for all Federal grant opportunities. All qualified applications will be  
  forwarded to an objective review committee which will make funding                 
  recommendations to the Associate Administrator for the Bureau of Health            
  Professions. The Associate Administrator has the authority to make final           
  selections for awards.                                                             
                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

  None.                                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  www.hrsa.gov .                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 3 to 4 months after submission deadline.                                      
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Competing continuation applications may be submitted during the final budget       
  year of the approved project.                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Project periods are limited up to three years.                                     
Reports:                                                                             
  Grantees must submit an annual Uniform Progress Report to describe progress in     
  meeting the objectives stated in the application. A financial status report is     
  required within 90 days of the end of each grant year. The report is an            
  accounting of expenditures under the project that year. Final progress and         
  financial reports must be submitted within 90 days after the end of the project    
  period. Awardees shall report a list and brief description of all training courses 
  conducted by this program to include course title and description, objectives,     
  target audience by discipline, contact hours, evaluation results, lessons learned  
  and delivery mechanism every 6 months.                                             
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                    
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000   
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit           
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a      
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,   
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                             


                                                                                11-08
Records:
  Grantees are required to maintain grant accounting records for a minimum of 3
  years after the end of a grant period. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or
  other action involving the record has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. More detailed information regarding retention
  requirements are provided in Title 45, CFR, Parts 74 and 92.
Account Identification:
  75-0350-0-1-550.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $21,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range of Awards For FY 05: Continuing Education (CE): $684,510 to
  $1,500,000; Average CE Award: $1,271,460. Curriculum Development:
  $77,130 to $200,000; Average CD Award: $152,526.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 45 CFR Part 92 for State, local and
  tribal governments and 45 CFR Part 74 for institutions of higher education,
  hospitals, other nonprofit organizations and commercial organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Terri Spear, Branch Chief, Emergency Training Branch, Division of Healthcare
  Preparedness, Healthcare Systems Bureau, HRSA, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 13-
  103, Rockville, MD 20857. Telephone: (301) 443-4912 (voice), (301) 443-4922
  (fax), Email: tspear@hrsa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Office: Oscar Tanner, Director, Division of Grants
  Management, Health Resources and Services Administration, Department of
  Health and Human Services, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 11A-16. Health Services
  Branch. Telephone: (301) 443-2385; Research and Training Branch. Telephone:
  (301) 443-3099; Government and Special Focus Branch. Telephone: (301) 443-
  3288.
Web Site Address:
  www.hrsa.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A listing and descriptions of funded programs is available at:
  http://bhpr.hrsa.gov/publichealth/03abstracts/biocd.htm.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be reviewed by nonfederal consultants who make
  recommendations to the Secretary of the Department. The Secretary will approve
  projects that promote the purposes of the Bioterrorism Training and Curriculum
  Development Program. Review criteria: the following review criteria apply to the
  Bioterrorism Training and Curriculum Development Program. The review of
  applications will take into consideration the following criteria: (1) NEED The
  level of preparedness among the current or anticipated health workforce to
  respond to bioterrorism and other public health emergencies in the target area
  (e.g., the state); how the program will fill or address the identified health
  personnel training gaps/needs in a state; how the program will improve the
  health workforce, practice and education; how the program will affect the state
  or region's (target area) bioterrorism and other public health emergency
  preparation and response; the extent to which the program identifies the
  competencies for bioterrorism preparedness already developed for the specific
  professions proposed to be trained; evidence of an enrollee/program participant
  pool, which may include underrepresented minorities/disadvantaged; and how
  the project identifies the geographical area that will be covered, as illustrated by
  a map to be included in the Appendices; (2) RESPONSE The purpose is
  consistent with the legislative purpose and is clearly described; the extent to
  which the proposed project responds to the "Need" included in the program
  description; the clarity of the proposed goals and objectives and their
  relationship to the identified project; the extent to which the activities (scientific
  or other) described in the application addresses the problem and is focused on
  attaining the project objectives; and the extent to which the project addresses
  existing discipline-specific competencies on bioterrorism preparedness; (3)
  EVALUATIVE MEASURES The effectiveness of the method proposed to
  monitor and evaluate the project results. Evaluative measures must be able to
  assess: 1) to what extent the program objectives have been met, and 2) to what
  extent these can be attributed to the project; (4) IMPACT The extent and
  effectiveness of plans for dissemination of project results and/or the extent to
  which project results may be national in scope and/or degree to which the
  project activities are replicable, the potential effectiveness and usefulness of the
  data-sharing plan, and/or the sustainability of the program beyond the Federal
  funding; (5) RESOURCES/CAPABILITIES The extent to which project
  personnel are qualified by training and/or experience to implement and carry out
  the projects. The capabilities of the applicant organization, and quality and
  availability of facilities and personnel to fulfill the needs and requirements of the
  proposed project; (6) SUPPORT REQUESTED Effective use of funds and
                                                                                    1581
