                        CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE

94.002 RETIRED AND SENIOR VOLUNTEER PROGRAM                                           
                                                                                      
   (RSVP)                                                                             
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, Title II, Part A, Section

                                                                                      
  201, Public Law 93-113, 42 U.S.C. 5001, as amended; National and Community          
  Service Trust Act of 1993, Public Law 103-82.

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Retired and Senior Volunteer Program (RSVP) provides grants to qualified

                                                                                      
  agencies and organizations for the dual purpose of engaging persons 55 and

                                                                                      
  older in volunteer service to meet critical community needs; and to provide a

                                                                                      
  high quality experience that will enrich the lives of volunteers.

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                      
  Project Grants.

                                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                      
  Volunteers are not to supplant hiring, displace employed workers, or impair

                                                                                      
  existing contracts for service. No agency supervising volunteers shall request or

                                                                                      
  receive compensation for services of the volunteers. Volunteers are not to be

                                                                                      
  involved in and funds are not to be used for religious activities, labor or anti-

                                                                                      
  labor organizations, lobbying, or partisan or non-partisan political activities.

                                                                                      
  Grants may be used for staff salaries and fringe benefits, staff travel, equipment,

                                                                                      
  and related expenses, and for volunteer out-of- pocket expenses, primarily for

                                                                                      
  transportation. In addition, eligible agencies or organizations may, with a Notice

                                                                                      
  of Grant Award from the Corporation for National and Community Service,

                                                                                      
  receive technical assistance and materials to aid in establishing and operating

                                                                                      
  non-Corporation funded RSVP projects using local funds.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Grants are made only to public agencies, including state and local government

                                                                                      
  agencies and private nonprofit organizations.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Persons age 55 and older who are willing to volunteer on a regular basis.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  The applicant must furnish evidence of: capacity to operate direct community

  service programs; experience and interest in the needs of older adults; and the     
                                                                                      
  ability to develop strong community financial and programmatic support.

                                                                                      
  Nonprofit organizations must furnish: proof of nonprofit status, articles of

                                                                                      
  incorporation and certification of accounting capability. Costs will be

                                                                                      
  determined in accordance with OMB Circulars No. A-21 for educational

                                                                                      
  institutions, No. A-87 for State and local governments, and No. A-122 for non-

                                                                                      
  profit organizations.                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Organizations interested in exploring the possibility of developing a local RSVP    
  project should contact the appropriate Corporation for National and Community       
  Service State Program Office. The Corporation for National and Community            
  Service issues application forms to applicants who have established their           
  eligibility. The standard application forms (modified by the Corporation for        
  National and Community Service with OMB approval), as furnished by the              
  Corporation for National and Community Service and required by OMB                  
  Circular No. A-102 must be used for this Program. This program is eligible for      
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."          
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point   
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State        
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the   
  Program for review.                                                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications for new projects are submitted to the Corporation for National and     
  Community Service. This Program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular        
  No. A-110 and A-102 for State and local governments.                                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Grants are awarded by the Corporation for National and Community Service.           
  States will be notified of awards through the Federal Assistance Awards Data        
  System (FAADS).                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the Corporation for National and Community Service State Office for         
  application deadlines.                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  120 days after receipt of application by the Corporation for National and           
  Community Service.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                              
  No formal appeals for denial of initial grant application, but regulations provide  
  for hearings on terminations and suspensions, and opportunity to show cause in      
  cases of denial of refunding.                                                       
Renewals:                                                                             
  Grant renewal applications, usually required annually, are submitted 120 days       
  prior to the end of the budget period.



                                                                                 11-08
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This Program has no statutory formulas. The RSVP sponsor is responsible for
  generating needed financial support for the RSVP project from all sources,
  Federal and nonfederal, including grants, cash and in-kind contributions, to meet
  the budgeted costs of the project. The sponsor will supplement a Corporation for
  National Service grant with other support to the fullest extent possible. As a
  guide to the level of local support expected, 10 percent of the total budget can be
  required for the first year, 20 percent for the second year, and 30 percent in any
  subsequent years. The level of local support negotiated may be higher or lower
  than these figures, as mutually agreed to by the Corporation for National and
  Community Service and the sponsor, and as justified by local conditions.
  Sponsors proposing to contribute local support of less than 30 percent of the
  total project budget for the third or succeeding years must provide the
  Corporation for National and Community Service with an acceptable written
  justification for the lower level of support.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant project periods are generally three years, with one year budget periods.
  Grant payments are through the DHHS Payment Management System.
Reports:
  Quarterly Financial Status Report, Periodic Project Progress Report, Quarterly
  Federal Cash Transactions Report, Annual Project Profile and Volunteer
  Activity Survey; Customer Satisfaction Survey.
Audits:
  Corporation for National and Community Service grants are subject to audit by
  the Corporation for National and Community Service, the General Accounting
  Office, other Federal agencies, and contract auditors. In accordance with the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments,
  and Non-Profit Organizations," grantees that expend $500,000 or more in a year
  in Federal awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted for
  that year in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All financial records for each budget period, including receipts, disbursements,
  and vouchers for Federal and nonfederal costs, copies of all contracts, personnel
  records, and job descriptions must be available for a period of three years from
  date of submission of the Final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  44-0103-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $59,685,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $0 to $847,000; $68,800.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  More than 485,000 older persons participated in the Corporation for National
  and Community Service and non-Corporation RSVP projects. They contributed
  almost 77,000,000 hours of service to over 65,000 local organizations. Service
  opportunities continue in intergenerational activities, education, in-home care,
  consumer education, public safety, homeland security, mentoring children of
  prisoners and other health and human service activities. To ensure maximum
  utilization of program resources, RSVP will provide guidance and technical
  assistance to other agencies to expand opportunities available to older people.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 2553; Retired and Senior Volunteer Program flyers.
Regional or Local Office:
  Corporation for National and Community Service State Program Offices as
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  National Senior Service Corps, Retired and Senior Volunteer Program,
  Corporation for National and Community Service, 1201 New York Avenue,
  NW., Washington, DC 20525. Telephone: (202) 606-6715.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nationalservice.org .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  94.011, Foster Grandparent Program; 94.016, Senior Companion Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The following exemplifies RSVP: An RSVP service volunteer, who is a retired
  architect and engineer, designs homes for low-income families displaced by
  midwestern floods. Another volunteer, who is bilingual, uses her fluency in
  English and Japanese to help non-English speaking Japanese-American seniors
  access community resources and live independently. Another RSVP volunteer is
  the coordinator, fund-raiser and supervisor of over 30 other RSVP volunteers
  who operate an inner-city soup kitchen which feeds more than 250,000 homeless
  and disadvantaged persons annually. In another instance, RSVP volunteers
  organized neighborhood watches for an entire city of more than 45,000. As a
  result, the police noted a 58 percent reduction in crime in some areas. RSVP
  provides creative opportunities for older people to serve their communities by
  responding to locally identified needs. The following statistics suggest the scope
                                                                                  1583
