  of their service: During fiscal year 1997, over 127,000 RSVP volunteers served       
  at 10,400 acute care hospitals, clinics, and other medical care facilities. Over     
  30,700 volunteers served in over 6,000 school systems. Over 100,000 served at        
  congregations and Meals on Wheels programs. Other volunteers served with             
  police departments, Head Start centers, libraries and ground water protection        
  agencies. In aggregate, they served over 80 million hours.                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Program Design: (1) Well- documented compelling community need(s); (2)               
  well-designed activities with measurable goals and objectives that meet              
  community needs (3) well- defined roles for participants that lead to measurable     
  outcomes/impact; (4) effective involvement of target community in                    
  planning/implementation; and (5) ability to provide or secure effective technical    
  assistance. Strengthening Communities: (1) Strong community partnerships,            
  including well-defined roles for community partners; (2) potential for               
  sustainability, innovation, and/or replicability of project activities; (3) enhanced 
  capacity of organizations and institutions; (4) mobilization of community            
  resources, including volunteers; and (5) bring together people of diverse            
                                                                                       
  backgrounds. Participant Development: (1) Effective plans for recruiting,

                                                                                       
  developing, training, supervising, and recognizing participants; (2)well-designed

                                                                                       
  plan to engage participants in high-quality service-learning as defined by the

                                                                                       
  corporation; and (3) well-designed plan for participants to learn to serve together

  with people of diverse backgrounds. Organizational Capacity: (1) Ability to

  provide sound programmatic and fiscal oversight; (2) Sound track record in the       
  issue areas(s) to be addressed by the project; (3) Well-defined roles for staff and  
  administrators; and (4) well-designed plans or systems for self-assessment,

  evaluation and continuous improvement. Budget/Cost-Effectiveness: (1)                
  Adequate budget to support program design; (2) commitment of applicant               
                                                                                       
  organization/host agency to securing resources for program, implementation

                                                                                       
  and/or sustainability; and (3) cost-effective within program guidance.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
94.003 STATE COMMISSIONS                                                               
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended.                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To develop a State plan; to assist States in the application process; and to         
  provide oversight of funded AmeriCorps programs within each State. The funds         
  enable States to form a 15 to 25 member, independent, bipartisan commission          
  appointed by a governor to implement service programs in their State.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds are used to operate a commission to oversee service programs.                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State governments, District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico         
  may apply.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  States will benefit.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  State commission administrative grant proposals must be submitted to the             
  Corporation.                                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  For final procedures contact the Headquarters Office.                                
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the Corporation for deadline dates.                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  The range is from one to two months.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Renewals are annual.                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Cost-sharing is involved over time. The amount varies from year to year.             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Time frames have not been established.                                               
Reports:                                                                               
  Financial status reports and reports of accomplishments are required.                
Audits:                                                                                
  Audit must be performed as required by the Law.                                      
Records:                                                                               
  Required records to will be spelled out in the individual grant.                     
Account Identification:                                                                
  95-2720-0-1-506.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $12,516,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.              


1584                                                                             11-08

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $125,000 to $750,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Examples are not currently available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  For detailed information contact the Headquarters Office.
Regional or Local Office:
  See the Corporation for National and Community Service's listing in Appendix
  IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Corporation for National and Community Service, 1201 New York Avenue,
  NW., Washington, DC 20525. Telephone: (202) 606-6715.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nationalservice.org .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funds are given to State commissions.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Governors must request funding and work directly with the Corporation. For
  more details, contact the Corporation.
94.004 LEARN AND SERVE AMERICA-SCHOOL AND
COMMUNITY BASED PROGRAMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage elementary and secondary schools and community-based agencies
  to create, develop, and offer service- learning opportunities for school- age
  youth; educate teachers about service- learning and incorporate service-learning
  opportunities into classrooms to enhance academic learning; coordinate adult
  volunteers in schools; and introduce young people to a broad range of careers
  and encourage them to pursue further education and training.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds may be used for a wide range of activities including: planning and
  capacity building; operating and expanding service-learning programs through
  grants to local partnerships; implementing and expanding school-based
  programs involving adult volunteers to use service-learning to improve the
  education of students; and providing training and technical assistance to
  qualified organizations. Corporation assistance may not be used to provide
  religious instruction, conduct worship services or engage in any form of
  proselytization; to assist, promote, or deter union organizing; to finance, directly
  or indirectly, any activity designed to influence the outcome of an election to any
  public office; or to impair existing contracts for service of collective bargaining
  agreements.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State education agencies, State Commissions on National Service, U.S.
  Territories, Indian tribes, and public or private nonprofit entities may apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  School-based program participants must be enrolled in elementary or secondary
  school. Community-based program participants must be between the ages of 5
  and 17.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants should contact the Corporation for specific instructions. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Contact the Corporation for specific details.
Award Procedure:
  Contact the Corporation for specific details.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Corporation for specific details.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  A range has not been established.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Based on grantee progress, the quality of the renewal plans, and the availability
  of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Corporation's share of the total cost of carrying out a funded program may
  not exceed 90 percent for the first program year; 80 percent for the second year;
  70 percent for the third year; 50 percent for the fourth and any subsequent year.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are for up to a 3- year period. Funding is awarded on an annual basis
