  subject to annual review and the availability of funds.                               
Reports:                                                                                
  Reports should be made as required by Law.                                            
Audits:                                                                                 
  Audits must be performed as required by the Law.                                      
Records:                                                                                
  Records are required to be maintained as spelled out in the individual grant.         
Account Identification:                                                                 
  95-2720-0-1-506.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $25,616,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not                
  reported.                                                                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  From $20,000 to $2,376,360; $298,610.                                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In fiscal year 2002, it is estimated that Learn and Serve America: School and         
  Community based programs engaged over 1,500,000 school-age youth in                   
  service-learning programs in local schools and communities nationwide. These          
  programs provide opportunities for youth to learn and develop while addressing        
  unmet needs in the areas of education, public safety, health, and environment.        
  To accomplish the program's overarching goals of promoting academic                   
  excellence, fostering civic responsibility, and impacting communities, the            
  Corporation has identified five programmatic priorities. The priorities are           
  building capacity and an infrastructure to promote and support high quality           
  service-learning efforts; forming partnerships with other educational                 
  improvement initiatives; qualitative/quantitative research and evaluation; linking    
  service-learning to other types of national and community service efforts; and        
  forming partnerships with citizen groups, community organizations and                 
  institutions of higher education. To ensure the quality of Learn and Serve            
  America: School and Community based programs, the Corporation will provide            
  guidance and technical assistance to funded agencies and organizations, and           
  others interested in expanding service learning opportunities.                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Contact the Corporation's Headquarters Office. The Corporation's requirements         
  for Learn and Serve America are set forth in the regulations published in the         
  Federal Register on March 23, 1994, CFR 2515 to 2519.                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a list of regional offices.                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Corporation for National and Community Service, 1201 New York Avenue,                 
                                                                                        
  NW., Washington, DC 20525. Telephone: (202) 606-6715.

                                                                                        
Web Site Address:

                                                                                        
  www.nationalservice.org .

                                                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  In a Minnesota service-learning program, high school students visit the St. Louis     
  River as part of a chemistry class to test water quality and initiate local pollution 
  control. Third graders, in an Indiana program, spend time with seniors in             
  nursing homes. Information is gathered and friends are made of long- time             
  residents of their community as part of an English Project for a book on local        
  history.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Grant application are reviewed against the following criteria: (1) Program design     
  (2) organizational capacity, and (3) budget/cost-effectiveness.                       
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
94.005 LEARN AND SERVE AMERICA-HIGHER                                                   
EDUCATION                                                                               
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  National and Community Service Act of 1990; as amended and the Higher                 
  Education Act of 1965.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  This grant program has two main objectives: (1) To support high quality service       
  learning projects that engage students in meeting community needs with                
  demonstrable results, while enhancing students' academic and civic learning;          
  and (2) to support efforts to build capacity and strengthen the service               
  infrastructure with institutions of higher education.                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  To strengthen the service-learning infrastructure and support high quality            
  programs.

                                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Entities eligible to receive a grant are limited to individual institutions of higher

                                                                                        
  education (as defined by the Higher Education Act of 1965), consortia of

                                                                                        
  institutions of higher education, and nonprofit organizations or public agencies,

                                                                                        
  including States, working in partnership with one or more institutions of higher      


                                                                                   11-08
  education.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Graduate and undergraduate students, faculty members, local and national
  nonprofit organizations, and public agencies will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Grant applicants apply directly to the Corporation for National and Community
  Service through an annual grant cycle. Selected institutions and organizations
  receive grants directly from the Corporation. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Contact the Corporation for specific details.
Award Procedure:
  Contact the Corporation for specific details.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Corporation for National and Community Service headquarters.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  A range has not been established.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grant recipients are required to provide a cash and/or in-kind match of an
  amount equal to or greater than the amount of the grant award.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The Corporation awards grants for a one-year period, with the possibility of
  renewal in each of the two following years, contingent upon program
  performance and the availability of funds.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  Audits must be performed as required by the Law.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  95-2720-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $8,539,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $40,000 to $320,000; $188,600.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  For fiscal year 2002, the Corporation awarded continuation grants to support 57
  service-learning programs at colleges and universities across the Nation. These
  programs engaged over 30,000 students at over 300 institutions of higher
  education in service activities such as tutoring, mentoring, health outreach and
  education, primary and preventive health care, conflict resolution, neighborhood
  clean-up and revitalization, gang violence, and substance abuse prevention.
  Through structured reflection and related course work, the students translate
  their service activities into opportunities for academic and civic learning. The
  Corporation monitors and provides technical assistance to funded programs in
  order to enhance quality and networking opportunities. In fiscal year 2003, the
  Corporation's funding will support approximately 62 continuing programs.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Application regulations have been specified in the Law. Contact the
  Corporation's headquarters office for further details.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a list of State Program Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Corporation for National and Community Service, 1201 New York Avenue,
  NW., Washington, DC 20525. Telephone: (202) 606-6715.
Web Site Address:
  www.nationalservice.org .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Over 150 teacher education students at three State colleges are learning how
  to use service- learning in K-12 classrooms, while working alongside K-12
  students in service projects assisting the homebound elderly. (2) As part of a
  credit bearing clinical program, over 35 law students at a private university are
  providing legal assistance to low-income communities in order to reduce toxic
  exposure and work place environmental hazards. (3) As part of their clinical
  rotations, over 250 nursing and allied health professions students from one
  private and one community college are providing community-based health
  education and primary care to senior citizens and low-income people. (4) A
  national organization of community colleges is providing subgrants, technical
  assistance, and networking opportunities to eight member colleges engaged in
  developing service learning projects and infrastructure.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Grant applications are reviewed against the following quality criteria: (1)
                                                                                 1585
