  Program design, (2) organization capacity, and (3) Budget/Cost-Effectiveness.        
  All applications are evaluated in a multi-stage process that includes a peer         
  review. Continuation applications are reviewed by corporation staff.                 
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
94.006 AMERICORPS

                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended.                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  AmeriCorps is the cornerstone of the Corporation's national service programs.        
  AmeriCorps addresses pressing education, public safety, human, and                   
  environmental needs of our Nation's communities by encouraging Americans to          
  serve either part or full-time. AmeriCorps programs have four goals: 1) Getting      
  things done by providing services with direct and demonstrable results; 2)           
  strengthen communities and uniting individuals of different backgrounds in a         
  common effort to improve their communities); 3) encourage responsibility             
  through service and civic education (AmeriCorps enables members to see               
  themselves as leaders and problem solvers and fulfill their responsibilities to      
  their communities); and 4) expand opportunities in return for devoting a year of     
  their lives to national service. AmeriCorps members may receive education            
  awards for qualified postsecondary education expenses or to pay off qualified        
  student loans.                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds must be used to operate or plan national and community service                 
  programs.                                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Tribes, Territories, national nonprofit   
  organizations, professional corps, and multi-State organizations may apply.          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Tribes, Territories, national nonprofit   
  organizations, professional corps, and multi-State organizations will benefit.

Credentials/Documentation:

  None.

                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Contact the Corporation for specific information.                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Contact the Corporation for specific award information.                              
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the Corporation for deadline dates.                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  The time ranges from 2 to 3 months.

                                                                                       
Appeals:

                                                                                       
  None.

Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
                                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Fifteen percent living allowances for AmeriCorps members; 33 percent                 
  operating and support expenses must be matched. (The funds are allocated as          
  follows: 1) State formula programs. One-third of the fiscal year AmeriCorps          
  funds will be allocated to States according to a population based formula; 2)        
  State competitive programs. At least one-third of the fiscal year AmeriCorps         
  funds will be distributed to programs that are first selected by the States and then 
  submitted to the Corporation for competitive consideration; 3) National direct.      
  Remaining fiscal year funds will be distributed directly to programs operated by     
                                                                                       
  national nonprofit organizations, professional corps and programs operating in

                                                                                       
  more than one State; and 4) Set-asides are estimated at two percent of the fiscal

                                                                                       
  year AmeriCorps funds. Set-aside for Indian Tribes and Territories, one percent

                                                                                       
  each.

                                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                       
  A time frame has not been established.

                                                                                       
Reports:

  As required by the Law.                                                              
Audits:                                                                                
  Audits must be performed as required by the Law.                                     
Records:                                                                               
  All records necessary to perform a proper audit must be retained.                    
Account Identification:                                                                
  95-2720-0-1-506.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $258,960,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not              
  reported.                                                                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  The anticipated program grant sizes (excluding planning grants) will range from      
  approximately $200,000 for State formula programs to $3,000,000 for National         
  Directs.                                                                             


1586                                                                             11-08

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In the 2006-2007 program year, about 67,350 Americans of all ages will serve in
  AmeriCorps projects. The Corporation has identified four issue areas: education,
  public safety, human needs and environment. The vast majority of AmeriCorps
  projects funded will work within these priority areas with a special emphasis on
  children and youth.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  As described in the Law. Contact the Corporation's headquarters office for
  further details.
Regional or Local Office:
  A list has been included in Appendix IV of the Catalog. State commissions
  should also be contacted.
Headquarters Office:
  Corporation for National and Community Service, 1201 New York Avenue,
  NW., Washington, DC 20525. Telephone: (202) 606-6715.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nationalservice.org .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  AmeriCorps members serve in area elementary schools as teaching assistants,
  tutors, mentors, and role models. AmeriCorps members develop and lead after
  school programs, work with community volunteers to develop community
  service projects, assist in immunization projects, renovate housing in low-
  income areas, tutor elementary children, and staff a crisis help-line for parents of
  at-risk children; work to improve relationships between community youth and
  local law enforcement officials by performing outreach, developing public safety
  instructional materials, conducting conflict resolution classes, and developing
  crime watch programs. AmeriCorps members have worked to transform a city
  sludge farm into a nature preserve, restore a polluted swamp to a thriving natural
  lake, test area drinking water, and create environmental public service
  announcements.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are contained in the application guidelines.
94.007 PLANNING AND PROGRAM DEVELOPMENT
GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  National and Community Service Act of 1990, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  Innovation grants support innovative demonstration service programs that build
  the ethic of service among Americans of all ages and backgrounds. These
  include the AmeriCorps Education Award Program, AmeriCorps Promise
  Fellows, Martin Luther King, Jr., Day of Service grants, and Disability Outreach
  grants.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Varies by program. AmeriCorps Promise Fellows support community efforts to
  achieve the five goals for children and youth set at the Presidents' Summit on
  America's Future. Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service Grants support
  community-based service activities conducted to honor the ideals of Dr. King in
  conjunction with the federal holiday marking his birth. Disability outreach
  grants support efforts to increase the number of people with disabilities in
  national and community service.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State, local governments, and nonprofit organizations are eligible for
  demonstration grants. State commissions, national nonprofit organizations, and
  operating AmeriCorps programs are eligible for disability grants.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments and nonprofit organizations are beneficiaries of
  demonstration grants Persons with disabilities who are participants in
  AmeriCorps programs operated by State commissions, institutions of higher
  education, nonprofit organizations, and governments are beneficiaries of
  disability grants.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Described in the Notice of Funding Availability published in the Federal
  Register for each program.
Award Procedure:
  The Corporation for National Service awards the grants.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines vary according to the program and are published in the Federal
  Register.
