Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  There is a two to four month range.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Varies by program.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Varies by program.                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Varies by program.                                                                  
Reports:                                                                              
  Varies by program.                                                                  
Audits:                                                                               
  Audits are performed annually.                                                      
Records:

                                                                                      
  Records must be maintained as required by the individual grant.

                                                                                      
Account Identification:

                                                                                      
  95-2720-0-1-506.

                                                                                      
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $9,029,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.     
  (Total for all activities under Innovation Programs.)                               
                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                      
  Demonstration grants generally range from $25,000 to $500,000. However, Dr.

                                                                                      
  Martin Luther King, Jr., Day of Service grants generally are for $5,000 or less.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  Education Award Program grants supported more than 13,000 full-and part-time

                                                                                      
  AmeriCorps members who served with national and community service groups

                                                                                      
  in education, public safety, environmental, health and human service programs.

                                                                                      
  The Disability Outreach initiative was initiated in fiscal year 2000 and the grants

                                                                                      
  award process is still in process.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                      
  For final guidelines, contact the headquarters office.

                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                      
  A list of field offices is available in Appendix IV of the Catalog.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                      
  Corporation for National Service, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington,

                                                                                      
  DC 20525. Telephone: (202) 606-6715.

                                                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.nationalservice.org .                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                      
  94.002, Retired and Senior Volunteer Program; 94.003, State Commissions.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  In one innovative Education Award program, Frostburg State University in

                                                                                      
  Maryland has a freshman dormatory hall where all residents participate on a         
  part-time basis as AmeriCorps Education Award Program members, with the             
  education award going to support their enrollment at Frostburg. These               
  AmeriCorps HallSTAR members tutor in area schools, support community                
  service agencies, and enroll in courses reinforcing the service-learning            
  experience. More than 500 AmeriCorps Promise Fellows are spearheading               
  community efforts to provide young people with the five fundamental resources       
  identified at the Presidents' Summit for America's Future: caring adults in their   
  lives as parents, mentors, tutors, and coaches; safe places with structured         
  activities in which to learn and grow; a healthy start; an effective education that 
  equips them with marketable skills; and an opportunity to give back to              
  communities through service. In California, 22 Fellows serve on projects that       
  promote increase use of health screening and immunization services in               
  underserved areas, that expand the number of after-school programs, and that        
  create job shadowing and community service activities for youth. In New York,       
  12 Fellows coordinate technology-based Family Learning Centers that train           
  children to be peer tutors and enable students to achieve grade-level skills in     
  reading and math. In Maryland, a Fellow is creating a national mentoring            
  program for first-time juvenile offenders.                                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Varies by program. Specific criteria is published in the Federal Register through   
  a Notice of Funds Availability (NOFA) when appropriate. The Corporation is          
  looking for high quality programs that have the potential to be replicated and      
  which provide meaningful service activities for Americans of all ages,              
  backgrounds and abilities.                                                          
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
94.009 TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National and Community Service Act of 1993, as amended.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide training and technical assistance to national service programs           
  supported by the Corporation for National Service, as well as to State              
  Commissions or alternative entities.                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            


                                                                                11-08 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Training and Technical Assistance Cooperative Agreements are used to provide
  training and technical assistance services to CNCS grantees in areas that include
  sustainability, evaluation, member development and management, organization
  development and program management, supervisory skills training, financial
  management and human relations training. The services are provided through
  national, regional and State workshops and conferences, informational materials
  in print and electronic formats, telephone assistance and on-site consultations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public agencies including Federal, State, and local agencies and other units of
  government, nonprofit organizations including groups serving youths,
  community based organizations, service organizations, institutions of higher
  education, Indian tribes, and for-profit companies; State and Federal agencies
  and non-governmental organizations are eligible to compete for Training and
  Technical Assistance Cooperative Agreements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, Tribes, Territories, national nonprofit
  organizations, Federal agencies, professional corps, and multi-State
  organizations will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applications are submitted to and awarded by the Corporation for National and
  Community Service. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Contact the Corporation for application procedures.
Award Procedure:
  Cooperative Agreements are awarded by the Corporation for National and
  Community Service.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Corporation for deadline dates.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  A time frame has not been established.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are subject to performance, continuing need, and the availability of
  funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  A time frame has not been established.
Reports:
  Reports must be submitted in accordance with the terms of the cooperative
  agreement and as required by Law.
Audits:
  Audits are performed as required by Law.
Records:
  Records must be maintained in accordance with the requirements of the
  Cooperative Agreement.
Account Identification:
  95-2720-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $9,029,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Training and Technical Assistance Cooperative Agreements awarded
  competitively to range from $100,000 to $1,500,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Training and technical assistance services offered to Corporation-funded
  national service programs included: assistance in organizational development,
  evaluation, leadership development, sustainability, financial management,
  member training, service-learning, human relations and diversity, reading skills
  development, and member development.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Contact the Corporation for guidelines.
Regional or Local Office:
  A list of regional offices appears in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Corporation for National Service, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington,
  DC 20525. Telephone: (202) 606-6915. Fax: (202) 208-4151.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nationalservice.org .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The Northwest Regional Education Laboratory provides program staff with the
  skills and resources to effectively design and implement high quality education
  programs with particular emphasis on literacy, out-of-school time and mentoring
  programs for youth. Assistance includes regional training of trainer events on
                                                                                 1587
