  effective practices in such areas as preschool and family literacy, America         
  Reads, tutor training, program start-up, and literacy assessment as well as a       
  regularly updated web site of downloadable education and tutoring resources.        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The Corporation assesses Training and Technical Assistance proposals for            
  quality, organizational capacity, innovation, cost, and replicability.              
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
94.011 FOSTER GRANDPARENT PROGRAM

                                                                                      
   (FGP)                                                                              
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, Title II, Part B, Section       
  211, Public Law 93-113, 42 U.S.C. 5011, as amended; National and Community          
  Service Trust Act of 1993, Public Law 103-82.                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Foster Grandparent Program provides grants to qualified agencies and            
  organizations for the dual purpose of engaging persons 60 or older, with limited    
  incomes, in volunteer service to meet critical community needs; and to provide a    
  high quality volunteer experience that will enrich the lives of the volunteers.     
  Program funds are used to support Foster Grandparents in providing supportive,      
  person to person service to children with exceptional or special needs.             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The grants may be used for: low-income Foster Grandparent stipends,                 
  transportation, physical examinations and meals; staff salaries and fringe          
  benefits, staff travel, equipment, space costs, etc. An amount equal to 80          
  percent of the corporation for National Service's Federal share must be used for    
  Foster Grandparent direct benefits. Assignment of Foster Grandparents to            
  children and youth may occur in residential and non-residential facilities,         
  including preschool establishments and to children living in their own homes.       
  Volunteers are not to supplant hiring or displace employed workers, or impair       
  existing contracts for service. No agency supervising volunteers shall request or   
  receive compensation for services of the volunteers. Volunteers are not to be       
  involved in and funds are not to be used for religious activities, labor or anti-   
  labor organization, lobbying, or partisan or non-partisan political activities. In  
  addition, eligible agencies or organizations may, with a Notice of Grant Award      
  from the Corporation for National and Community Service, receive technical          
  assistance and materials to aid in establishing and operating a non-Corporation     
  funded Foster Grandparent Program project using state, local and private funds.     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Grants are made only to State and local government agencies and private             
  nonprofit organizations.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Foster Grandparents must be: 60 years of age or older, with an income within        
  limits determined by the CEO of the Corporation for National and Community          
  Service (based on the Department of Health and Human Services Poverty               
  Guidelines), and interested in serving infants, children, and youth with special or 
  exceptional needs. (However, individuals who are not income eligible may serve      
  as non- stipended volunteers under certain conditions.) They must be                
  physically, mentally, and emotionally capable and willing to serve selected         
  infants, children or youth on a person-to-person basis.                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The applicant must furnish evidence of: availability of income-eligible older       
  persons, eligible volunteer stations, and the ability to provide sufficient         
  matching nonfederal funds. Nonprofit organizations must furnish: proof of           
  nonprofit status, articles of incorporation, and certification of accounting        
  capability. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circulars No. A-        
  21 for educational institutions, No. A-87 for State and local governments and       
  No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations.                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Organizations interested in exploring the possibility of developing a local FGP     
  project should contact the appropriate Corporation for National and Community       
  Service State Program Office. The application forms (modified by the                
  Corporation for National and Community Service with OMB approval), as               
  furnished by the Corporation for National and Community Service and required        
  by OMB Circular No. A- 102, must be used for this Program. This Program is          
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal        
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the 
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected 
  the Program for review.                                                             
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications are submitted to the Corporation for National and Community            
  Service State Program Office. This Program is subject to the provisions of OMB      
  Circular No. A-110 and A-102 for State and local governments.                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      


1588                                                                            11-08

  Grants are awarded by the Corporation for National and Community Service.
  States will be notified of awards through the Federal Assistance Awards Data
  System (FAADS).
Deadlines:
  Contact the Corporation for National and Community Service State Office for
  application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  120 days after receipt of application by the Corporation for National and
  Community Service.
Appeals:
  No formal appeals for denial of initial grant application, but regulations provide
  for hearings on terminations and suspensions, and opportunity to show cause in
  cases of denial of refunding.
Renewals:
  Grant renewal applications, usually required annually, are submitted 120 days
  prior to the end of the current budget period.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This Program has no statutory formula. Generally, at least 10 percent of the total
  project costs must be met by the applicant. In exceptional cases, the CEO of the
  Corporation for National and Community Service may make grants in excess of
  90 percent of total project budget costs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant budget periods generally are 1 year, with an opportunity to amend each
  year. Grant payments are done through the DHHS Payment Management
  System.
Reports:
  Semi-annual Financial Status Report, Project Progress Report, Federal Cash
  Transactions Report, Project Profile and Volunteer Activity Survey, National
  Accomplishment Survey, and customer satisfaction survey.
Audits:
  The Corporation for National and Community Service grants are subject to audit
  by the Corporation for National and Community Service, the General
  Accounting Office, other Federal agencies, and contract auditors. In accordance
  with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, States, Local Governments,
  and Non-Profit Non-Federal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a year in
  Federal awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that
  year Organizations.
Records:
  All financial records for each budget period, including receipts, disbursements,
  and vouchers for Federal and non-Federal costs; copies of all contracts;
  personnel records; and job descriptions must be available for a period of 3 years
  from date of submission of Final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  44-0103-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $110,943,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $0 to $1,949,000; $318,333.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2005, more than 31,000 Foster Grandparent volunteers contributed
  27.9 million hours of service to help nearly 263,000 children with special and
  exceptional needs. Foster Grandparents served through a network of 342 local
  projects nationwide supported with Corporation and non-Corporation funds.
  These grantees in turn worked with more than 10,000 community organizations
  that supervise the Foster Grandparents during their service. Special emphasis
  was placed on terminally ill children, juvenile delinquents, pregnant teenagers,
  boarder babies and abused children.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  45 CFR 2552; Foster Grandparent Program brochure.
Regional or Local Office:
  Corporation for National and Community Service as listed in Appendix IV of
  the Catalog under the Corporation for National and Community Service.
Headquarters Office:
  National Senior Service Corps, Foster Grandparent Program, Corporation for
  National and Community Service, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington,
  DC 20525. Telephone: (202) 606-6715.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nationalservice.org .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  94.002, Retired and Senior Volunteer Program; 94.016, Senior Companion
  Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The following exemplifies FGP service: Foster Grandparents serve seriously ill
  children, many with cancer, at a medical center. The volunteers help the children
  deal with their illnesses, as well as their temporary separation from their
  families. While often afraid of the hospital staff, the children "know" that they
  can trust their Foster Grandparents. Another Foster Grandparent who serves
  HIV/AIDS toddlers promotes social interaction, sensory stimulation and
  perception, emotional well-being and language development. Two other Foster
  Grandparents offer chess instruction to at-risk, elementary school children for
