  10-week sessions in an effort to provide behavioral modification. Foster            
  Grandparents serve in various settings by assisting children with a variety of      
  physical, emotional, mental, or learning needs. The follow statistics suggest the   
  scope of their service. In fiscal year 1997, 771 Foster Grandparents served in      
  over 215 residential and juvenile detention centers where they assisted youth by    
  providing adult guidance, companionship, and emotional support. Over 9,000          
  Foster Grandparents served at approximately 3,200 schools where they helped         
  children with literacy needs and a range of other problems. Over 4,100 Foster       
  Grandparents served in Head Start Centers. Some 717 Foster Grandparents             
  served as adult role models and taught parenting skills to over 4,300 teenage       
  mothers. In the area of substance abuse, almost 900 foster Grandparents             
  provided counseling and assistance to almost 5,000 youth.                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The corporation-wide evaluation criteria: program design: getting things done;      
  well-documented compelling community needs(s); well-designed activities with        
  measurable goals and objectives that meet community needs; well-defined roles       
  for participants that lead to measurable outcomes/impact; effective involvement     
  of target community in planning/implementation; ability to provide or secure        
  effective technical assistance. Strengthening Communities: Strong community         
  partnerships, including well-defined roles for community partners; Potential for    
  sustainability, innovation, and/or replicability of project activities; enhance     
  capacity of organizations and institutions; mobilization of community resources,    
  including volunteers; Bring together people of diverse backgrounds. Participant     
  Development; Effective plan for recruiting, developing, training, supervising,      
  and recognizing participants; Well-designed plan to engage participants in high-    
  quality service-learning as defined by the Corporation; well-designed plan for      
  participants to learn to serve together with people of diverse backgrounds.         
  Organizational Capacity: Ability to provide sound programmatic and fiscal           
  oversight; sound track record in the issue areas(s) to be addressed by the project; 
  well- defined roles for staff and administrators; well-designed plans or systems    
  for self-assessment, evaluation and continuous improvement. Budget/Cost-            
  Effectiveness: Adequate budget to support program design; commitment of             
  applicant organization/host agency to securing resources for program                
  implementation and/or sustainability; cost-effectiveness within program             
  guidance.                                                                           
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
94.013 VOLUNTEERS IN SERVICE TO AMERICA                                               
   (Americorps*VISTA)                                                                 
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, Title I, Part A, Public         
  Law 93-113, 42 U.S.C. 4951 et seq.                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To supplement efforts of private, nonprofit organizations and Federal, State, and   
  local government agencies to eliminate poverty and poverty-related problems by      
  enabling persons from all walks of life and all age groups to perform meaningful    
  and constructive service as volunteers.                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Provision of Specialized Services.                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Volunteer: Provides full-time, full- year volunteers to local sponsoring            
  organizations to work on clearly- defined tasks which address the problems of       
  poverty. The volunteers live among the people they serve at subsistence levels      
  of support. All volunteers work to improve the community's ability to solve its     
  own problems. Members of the poor community should actively participate in          
  the development and implementation of the project. Projects must be responsive      
  to the needs and desires of the people who are to benefit from them in order to     
  be funded by VISTA. Volunteers are not to supplant hiring or displace employed      
  workers, or impair existing contracts for service. No agency supervising            
  volunteers shall request or receive compensation for services of the volunteers.    
  Volunteers are not to be involved in, and funds are not to be used for, religious   
  activities, labor or anti-labor organization, lobbying, or partisan or non-partisan 
  political activities. Volunteers may be recruited locally to serve in their own     
  communities or referred by the Corporation for National Service to sponsoring       
  organizations in other parts of the country based on the volunteers' skills and     
  project needs.                                                                      
                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

  Sponsors applying for VISTA Volunteers must be Federal, State or local              
  government agencies or private, nonprofit organizations. The project proposing      
  to use the volunteers must be designed to assist in the solution of poverty-related 
  problems.                                                                           
                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Persons who are assisted by VISTA project activities must be low-income and         
  VISTA activities must directly benefit the poor.                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants must be bona fide public or private nonprofit organizations.             
                                                                                      
  Nonprofit organizations must furnish proof of nonprofit status and articles of



                                                                                 11-08
  incorporation.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Application inquiry forms and assistance in applying for Volunteers may be
  obtained through the appropriate Corporation for National Service State Office.
  The application form is submitted to the appropriate Corporation for National
  Service State Office. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the review process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Prospective sponsors apply through Corporation for National Service State
  Offices. The Governor or other chief executive officer of the State concerned has
  the right to disapprove programs submitted within 45 days of their submission.
Award Procedure:
  New renewal project applications are reviewed and judged by Corporation for
  National Service State Offices with final decisions rendered by the Corporation
  State Director.
Deadlines:
  Contact the Corporation for National and Community Service State Office for
  project application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  No formal appeals for denial of initial project application; however, regulations
  provide for hearings on terminations and suspensions, and opportunity to show
  cause in cases of denial of refunding.
Renewals:
  Renewal applications are required annually at least 115 days prior to the end of
  the project period. Renewals are subject to the same review procedures as new
  projects.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  VISTA Volunteers are assigned to a project for a given length of time, generally
  1 year, as designated in a Memorandum of Agreement between Corporation for
  National Service and the sponsor. Individual volunteers commit themselves to a
  1- year term of service which may be extended with sponsor and Corporation for
  National Service approval.
Reports:
  Quarterly Project Progress Reports in first year; semi- annual thereafter unless
  requested by Corporation State Office.
Audits:
  Sponsors are subject to audit by Corporation for National Service.
Records:
  Sponsors are expected to maintain records pertaining to volunteer assignments
  and training activities for 3 years after the end of the project year.
Account Identification:
  44-0103-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  (Direct costs only) FY 07 $95,470,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est
  not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  During fiscal year 2005, approximately 6,707 VISTA Volunteers served 1,200
  sponsoring organizations in 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico
  in a variety of poverty-related programs. The programs are focused on hunger,
  homelessness, unemployment, health, economic development including welfare
  to work , and illiteracy; including literacy problems faced by America's children.
  Approximately 50 percent of VISTA's resources are focused on the problems of
  disadvantaged youth, who comprise the largest category, by age, of America's
  poor. Many of these activities address the problems of substance abuse,
  delinquency, child abuse, and illiteracy. VISTA resources are allocated among
  Corporation for National Service Cluster and State offices in accordance with
  poverty indices within those areas.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  VISTA Program Guidelines, 60 FR 7172 February 7, 1995; VISTA Handbook
  for Volunteers and Sponsors (Corporation for National Service Handbook
  4302.0.)
Regional or Local Office:
  See Corporation for National Service Cluster and State Program Offices list in
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Director of VISTA, Corporation for National Service, 1201 New York Avenue,
  NW., Washington, DC 20525. Telephone: (202) 606-5000 or toll-free (800)
  424-8867.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nationalservice.org .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
                                                                                   1589
