  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  VISTA has helped to set up drug abuse action centers, literacy programs, food      
  distribution efforts and shelters for runaway youth, and the homeless. For         
  example, VISTA Volunteers provided assistance to families involved in a self-      
  help housing project for low-income families by helping them to select building    
  sites and affordable house plans, obtaining cost estimates for construction        
  materials and subcontracting required, obtaining home ownership loans and          
  providing the families with information on loan payments, credit counseling and    
  home ownership responsibilities. VISTA volunteers assigned to a nonprofit          
  organization in New York provided low-income adults with tutoring services to      
  upgrade their reading skills and to improve their employment potential through     
  computer literacy activities. Volunteers serving in technology projects assess     
  local technology needs, develop and design technology plans, establish             
  community Internet sites, develop web sites and recruit community volunteers       
  for such activities as installing computer hardware and software and staffing      
  computer labs. VISTA Volunteers through a health project provided                  
  coordination services from a hospital and local health organizations, which        
  enabled services and resources to be provided to medically under-served seniors    
  in ten target neighborhoods. Volunteers also recruited local volunteers to provide 
  health screenings and referral services in each neighborhood.                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  All of the following elements must be found in the applicant's proposal for new    
  or renewal projects. The project must: (1) be poverty oriented in scope and        
  comply with the provisions of the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973           
  applicable to VISTA and all published regulations and Corporation for National     
  Service policies; (2) show that the project goals, objectives and Volunteer tasks  
  are attainable within the time frame during which the Volunteers will be serving   
  on the project and will produce a measurable result; (3) provide for reasonable    
  efforts to recruit and involve low-income community residents in the planning,     
  development and implementation of the VISTA project; (4) provide for frequent      
  and effective supervision of the Volunteers; (5) identify resources needed and     
  make them available for Volunteers to perform their tasks; and (6) have the        
  management capability to carry out the project.                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
94.016 SENIOR COMPANION PROGRAM

                                                                                     
   (SCP)                                                                             
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  CORPORATION FOR NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY SERVICE                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973, as amended, Title II, Part C, Section      
  213, Public Law 93-113, 42 U.S.C. 5013; National and Community Service             
  Trust Act of 1993, Public Law 103-82.                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Senior Companion Program provides grants to qualified agencies and             
  organizations for the dual purpose of engaging persons 60 and older, particularly  
  those with limited incomes, in volunteer service to meet critical community        
  needs; and to provide a high quality experience that will enrich the lives of the  
  volunteers. Program funds are used to support Senior Companions in providing       
  supportive, individualized services to help adults with special needs maintain     
  their dignity and independence.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The grants may be used for: Senior Companion stipends, transportation, physical    
  examinations, insurance, and meals; staff salaries and fringe benefits, staff      
  travel, equipment, space costs, etc. An amount equal to 80 percent of the          
  Corporation for National and Community Service Federal share must be used for      
  Senior Companion direct benefits. Assignment of Senior Companions to adults        
  may occur in residential and non-residential facilities and in their own homes.    
  Volunteers do not supplant hiring or displace employed workers, or impair          
  existing contracts for service. No agency supervising volunteers shall request or  
  receive compensation for services of the volunteers. Volunteers are not to be      
  involved in and funds are not to be used for religious activities, labor or anti-  
  labor organization, lobbying, or partisan or non-partisan political activities. In 
  addition, eligible agencies or organizations may, under a Notice of Grant Award    
  from the Corporation for National and Community Service, receive technical         
  assistance and materials to aid in establishing and operating non-Corporation for  
  National and Community Service funded SCP projects using state, local and          
  private funds.                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Grants are made only to State and local government agencies and private            
  nonprofit organizations.                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Senior Companions must be: 60 years of age or older, with an income within         
  limits determined by the CEO of the Corporation for National and Community         
  Service (based on the Department of Health and Human Services Poverty              
  Guidelines); interested in serving special-needs adults, especially the frail      


1590                                                                           11-08

  elderly, and must be physically, mentally, emotionally capable, and willing to
  serve on a person-to- person basis. However, non-income eligible individuals
  may serve as non-stipended volunteers under certain conditions.) Adults served
  are age 21 and over with limitations in one or more activities of daily living
  which place them at-risk of an inappropriate placement in an institutional
  setting.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must furnish evidence of: availability of income eligible older
  persons, eligible volunteer stations, ability to provide sufficient matching
  nonfederal funds. Non- profit organizations must furnish: proof of nonprofit
  status, articles of incorporation, and certification of accounting capability. Costs
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circulars No. A-21 for educational
  institutions, No. A-87 for State and local governments, and No. A-122 for non-
  profit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Organizations interested in exploring the possibility of developing a local SCP
  project should contact the appropriate Corporation for National Service State
  Program Office. The Corporation for National and Community Service issues
  application forms to applicants who have established their eligibility. The
  application forms (modified by the Corporation for National and Community
  Service with OMB approval), as furnished by the Corporation for National and
  Community Service and required by OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for
  this Program. This Program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the Program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Applications are submitted to the Corporation for National and Community
  Service State Program Office. This Program is subject to the provisions of OMB
  Circular Nos. A-110 for nonprofit organizations, and A-102 for State and local
  governments.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are awarded by the Corporation for National and Community Service.
  States will be notified of awards through the Federal Assistance Awards Data
  System (FAADS).
Deadlines:
  Contact the Corporation for National and Community Service State Office for
  application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  120 days after receipt of application by the Corporation for National and
  Community Service.
Appeals:
  No formal appeals for denial of initial grant application, but regulations provide
  for hearings on terminations and suspensions, and opportunity to show cause in
  cases of denial of refunding.
Renewals:
  Grant renewal applications, usually required annually, are submitted 120 days
  prior to the end of the current budget period.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This Program has no statutory formula. Generally, at least 10 percent of the total
  approved budget must be met by the applicant. In exceptional cases, the CEO of
  the Corporation for National and Community Service may make grants in excess
  of 90 percent of total project budget costs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant budget periods are generally three years, with annual budget periods.
  Grant payments are made through the DHHS Payment Management System.
Reports:
  Corporation for National and Community Service Semi-Annual Financial Status
  Report, Project Progress Report, Federal Cash Transactions Report, Project
  Profile and Volunteer Activity Survey, National Accomplishment Survey,
  customer satisfaction survey.
Audits:
  Corporation for National and Community Service grants are subject to audit by
  Corporation for National and Community Service, the General Accounting
  Office, other Federal agencies, and contract auditors. In accordance with the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments,
  and Non-Profit Organizations," grantees that expend financial assistance of
  $500,000 or more a year in Federal awards shall have an audit made in
  accordance with OMB Circular A-133.
Records:
  All financial records for each budget period, including receipts, disbursements,
  and vouchers for Federal and non-Federal costs; copies of all contracts;
  personnel records; and job descriptions must be available for a period of 3 years
  from date of submission of final Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  44-0103-0-1-506.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $46,964,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
