  From $0 to $689,000; $237,500.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  In fiscal year 2005, over 16,000 SCP volunteers contributed 13.9 million hours

  of service to nearly 58,000 clients through the 224 organizations that received

  SCP grants from Corporation and non-Corporation sources.

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  45 CFR Part 2551; Senior Companion Program flyers.

Regional or Local Office:

  Corporation for National and Community Service State Program Offices, as

  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog under Corporation for National and

  Community Service.

Headquarters Office:

  National Senior Service Corps, Senior Companion Program, Corporation for

  National and Community Service, 1201 New York Avenue, NW., Washington,

  DC 20525. Telephone: (202) 606-5000, ext. 189 and 1-800-424-8867.

Web Site Address:

  http://www.nationalservice.org .

RELATED PROGRAMS:

  94.011, Foster Grandparent Program; 94.002, Retired and Senior Volunteer

  Program.

EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  The following exemplifies SCP service: An SCP volunteer provides supportive

  in-house services to a stroke victim who is confined to a wheelchair, suffers

  from depression and needs help in daily living. Prior to the arrival of the Senior

  Companion, the client received no visitors and refused to leave his apartment.

  Just two months after he arrived, the SCP volunteer convinced his client to

  venture out of his apartment. Now, the client goes out for meals, exercises and

  participates in social events at a nearby senior center. Another Senior

  Companion has provided respite care to the husband of an Alzheimer's patient

  for over six years. The Senior Companion provides reality orientations, music

  and games for the client. Senior Companions provide predominantly in-home

  services to frail adults, often the elderly. The following statistics suggest the

  scope of their activities. In fiscal year 1997, over 2,400 Senior Companions

  provided respite to 5,300 Alzheimer's care givers. They served over 5,000

  visually impaired, 3,100 hearing impaired, 2,000 terminally ill and 3,000 clients

  with short-term disabilities. An additional 27,000 frail adults with chronic care

  disabilities threatening their ability to continue to live at home were served.

  Senior Companions also served at over 200 adult day care centers; they served at

  380 nursing homes and convalescent hospitals.

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  The corporation-wide evaluation criteria: program design: getting things done;

  well-documented compelling community needs(s); well-designed activities with

  measurable goals and objectives that meet community needs; well-defined roles

  for participants that lead to measurable outcomes/impact; effective involvement

  of target community in planning/implementation; ability to provide or secure

  effective technical assistance. Strengthening Communities: Strong community

  partnerships, including well-defined roles for community partners; Potential for

  sustainability, innovation, and/or replicability of project activities; enhance

  capacity of organizations and institutions; mobilization of community resources,

  including volunteers; Bring together people of diverse backgrounds. Participant

  Development; Effective plan for recruiting, developing, training, supervising,

  and recognizing participants; Well-designed plan to engage participants in high-

  quality service-learning as defined by the Corporation; well-designed plan for

  participants to learn to serve together with people of diverse backgrounds.

  Organizational Capacity: Ability to provide sound programmatic and fiscal

  oversight; sound track record in the issue areas(s) to be addressed by the project;

  well- defined roles for staff and administrators; well-designed plans or systems

  for self-assessment, evaluation and continuous improvement. Budget/Cost-

  Effectiveness: Adequate budget to support program design; commitment of

  applicant organization/host agency to securing resources for program

  implementation and/or sustainability; cost-effectiveness within program

  guidance.









                                                                                11-08 
1591
