                                                SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION

96.001 SOCIAL SECURITY-DISABILITY INSURANCE                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Social Security Act of 1935, Title II, as amended; Public Laws 96-265; 97-123,

                                                                                       
  and 97-35. 42 U.S.C. 401; 42 U.S.C. 402; 42 U.S.C. 416; 42 U.S.C. 420-425.

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                       
  To replace part of the earnings lost because of a physical or mental impairment,

                                                                                       
  or a combination of impairments, severe enough to prevent a person from

                                                                                       
  working.

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                       
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use; Direct Payments for Specified Use.

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                       
  Monthly cash benefits are paid to entitled disabled persons and to entitled

                                                                                       
  auxiliary beneficiaries throughout the period of disability generally after a 5-

                                                                                       
  month waiting period. Costs of vocational rehabilitation also are paid for certain

                                                                                       
  beneficiaries. There are no restrictions on the use of benefits received by

                                                                                       
  beneficiaries, although the right to future benefits is not transferable or

                                                                                       
  assignable. In general, State agencies make initial disability determinations for

                                                                                       
  the Federal Government. The Federal Government gives the States funds, in

                                                                                       
  advance or by way of reimbursement, for necessary costs in making disability

                                                                                       
  determinations under 20 CFR 404 Subparts P and Q. Necessary costs are direct

                                                                                       
  as well as indirect costs as defined in 41 CFR 1-15, subpart 1-15.7 of the Federal

                                                                                       
  Procurement Regulations System for costs incurred before April 1, 1984; and 48

  CFR 31, Subpart 31.6 of the Federal Acquisition Regulations System and               
                                                                                       
  Federal Management Circular A-74-4, as amended, or superseded for costs

                                                                                       
  incurred after March 31, 1984.

                                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:

  A disabled worker is entitled to Social Security disability benefits if he or she    
                                                                                       
  has worked for a sufficient period of time under Social Security to be insured,

                                                                                       
  has not attained "full-benefit retirement age" (66 years old for workers age 62 in

                                                                                       
  2005), has filed an application, and is under a disability as defined in the Social

                                                                                       
  Security law. The law defines disability as the inability to do any substantial

                                                                                       
  gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental

                                                                                       
  impairment which can be expected to result in death or which has lasted or can

                                                                                       
  be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months. The

                                                                                       
  insured status requirements depend upon the age of the applicant and the date he     
  or she became disabled. Coverage credits under the social security systems of        
  certain foreign countries with which the U.S. has reciprocal agreements may be       
  taken into account to meet the requirements. Certain family members of               
  disabled workers are also entitled to benefits: (1) Unmarried children under age     
  18, or under age 19 for full-time students in elementary or secondary school; (2)    
  unmarried adult offspring at any age if continuously disabled since before age       
  22; (3) wife or husband at any age if child in his or her care is receiving benefits 
  on worker's Social Security record and is under age 16 or disabled; (4) spouse       
  age 62 or over; and (5) divorced wives or husbands age 62 or over who were           
  married to the worker for at least 10 years. (Benefits are also payable to           
  auxiliaries, including certain disabled widow(er)s, disabled surviving divorced      
  spouses, children under age 19 who are full-time students in an elementary or        
  secondary school, and disabled children of the worker, after the worker dies.        
  See 96.004 "Social Security-Survivors' Insurance".) For workers who are first        
  entitled after 1985 for both (a) a pension based on non-covered employment; and      
  (b) Social Security disability (or retirement) benefits, a less generous benefit     
  formula applies. In addition, Social Security disability benefits are reduced        
  (offset) by the amount that the sum of all disability benefits payable under Social  
  Security and certain Federal, State, or local public disability and workers'         
  compensation laws or plans exceeds the higher of 80 percent of the worker's          
  average current earnings or the total Social Security benefit that would otherwise   
  be payable on the disabled worker's record. The Social Security benefit for a        
  spouse of a disabled worker is subject to a pension offset if the spouse receives a  
  governmental pension based on his or her own work in non-covered                     
  employment. However, the offset does not apply if: (i) the person received or        
  became eligible to receive the pension before December 1, 1982, and can meet         
  requirements for Social Security auxiliaries' benefit as they existed in January     
  1977; or (ii) if the person received, or was eligible to receive, the pension before 
  July 1, 1983, and the person was dependent on his or her spouse for at least one-    
  half support at the time the spouse died, became disabled or became entitled to      
  Social Security benefits. The amount of the public pension used for purposes of      
  the offset against Social Security spouse's benefits is equal to two-thirds of the   
  public pension. The Social Security benefit for the spouse of a disabled worker      
  is also offset dollar for dollar by the amount of any Social Security benefit the    
  spouse receives based on his or her own work. All benefits to spouses and            
  children of disabled workers are subject to an earnings test unless those            
  beneficiaries are full-benefit retirement age or older. Beginning with the year      
  2000, the retirement earnings test was eliminated beginning with the month in        
  which the beneficiary reaches full-benefit retirement age (FRA). A person at and     
                                                                                       


1592                                                                             11-08

  above FRA will not have Social Security benefits reduced because of earnings.
  In the calendar year in
  whichabeneficiaryreachesFRA,benefitsarereduced$1forevery$3ofearnings above
  the limit allowed by law, $31,800 in 2005, but this reduction is applied only to
  months prior to attainment of FRA. For years before the year the beneficiary
  attains FRA, the reduction in benefits is $1 for every $2 of earnings over the
  annual exempt amount. Further, no benefit can be paid to an alien in the United
  States unless he or she is lawfully present in the United States. In addition, an
  alien cannot qualify for benefits if he or she never had a work-authorized Social
  Security Number (SSN) (effective for benefit applications based on SSNs issued
  after 2003).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Qualified disabled workers under full retirement age (FRA). Under the definition
  of disability in the Social Security Law, disability benefits are provided to a
  person who is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of a
  medically determinable physical or mental impairment that has lasted or is
  expected to last at least 12 months, or to result in death. Disabled widow(er)s'
  benefits are covered under survivors insurance. Felony-related impairments and
  confinement-related impairments cannot be considered in determining whether
  an individual is under a disability if the individual has been convicted of a
  felony which was committed after October 19, 1980. Effective for claims finally
  adjudicated on or after March 29, 1996, (or for claims approved before then,
  with benefits payable beginning January 1, 1997) eligibility can no longer be
  based on drug addiction or alcoholism.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proof of disability and possibly proof of age. If applying for benefits for family
  members, additional proofs of age, relationship to disabled worker, or full-time
  school attendance may be required.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Telephone toll free at 1 (800) 772-1213 or telephone or visit the local Social
  Security Office.
Award Procedure:
  After review of the application is completed, the applicant (or representative
  payee) will be notified by mail.
Deadlines:
  An individual should apply for disability benefits when he or she believes the
  entitlement requirements may be met. Retroactivity of benefit payments is
  limited to 1 year before filing.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Telephone or visit any Social Security Office. The appeal process ranges from a
  reconsideration through hearings and appeals levels to a review by the Federal
  courts.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Any change in address or other requirement (such as improvement of disabling
  condition or work activity) must be reported to the local Social Security Office
  when it occurs.
Audits:
  Continuing Disability Reviews: Persons are contacted periodically to see if they
  continue to qualify for benefits.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  20-8007-0-7-651.
Obligations:
  (Benefit Payments) FY 07 $96,988,000,000; FY 08 est $102,854,000,000; and
  FY 09 est not reported. (Note: These figures represent benefits actually paid, or
  expected to be paid.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Monthly cash benefits for a worker disabled in 2005 range up to a maximum of
  $2,099 based on the level of the worker's earnings and the age at which a worker
  becomes disabled. The corresponding maximum for such a worker with a
  family is $3,148.60 As of December 31, 2004, the average benefit paid to a
  disabled worker alone was $880 and the average amount payable to a disabled
  worker with eligible dependents was $1,496. This takes into account
  stipulations set forth in Public Law 96-265 and Public Law 97-35. Under Public
  Law 97-123, the minimum amount is no longer applicable for workers who
  either become disabled or first met the insured status requirements after
  December 1981, and a lesser amount can be paid, depending on the worker's
