  became effective January 2008. The average Federal monthly benefit payment           
  for December 2007 was $437.                                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In fiscal year 2003, an average of 6,553,000 persons per month were Federal          
  Supplemental Security Income recipients. It is estimated that in fiscal year         
  2004, an average of 6,711,000 recipients will receive monthly cash benefits.         
  During fiscal year 2005, the average number receiving payments is estimated to       
  be 6,867,000 per month. Not included are those persons who receive only State        
  supplementary payments, some of which are administered by the Social Security        
  Administration for the States as part of the SSI program.                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Code of Federal Regulations, Title 20, Parts 401, 416, and 422. "SSI for Aged,       
  Blind, and Disabled People" and other publications are available from any            
  Social Security Office without charge. The Social Security internet address is       
  www.ssa.gov and it includes copies of all disability-related laws, regulations,      
  rulings, and free publications, as well as other information about Social Security   
  programs.                                                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Consult Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Office of Public Inquiries, Room 4100, Annex, Social Security Administration,        
  Baltimore, MD 21235. Telephone: (410) 965-2736. Use the same number for              
  FTS.                                                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.socialsecurity.gov                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  93.560, Family Support Payments to States_Assistance Payments; 93.778,               
  Medical Assistance Program; 96.001, Social Security_Disability Insurance;            
  96.002, Social Security_Retirement Insurance; 96.003, Social Security_Special        
  Benefits for Persons Aged 72 and Over; 96.004, Social Security_Survivors             
  Insurance; 96.005, Special Benefits for Disabled Coal Miners.                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
96.007 SOCIAL SECURITY-RESEARCH AND                                                    
DEMONSTRATION                                                                          
                                                                                       
   (SSA Research and Demonstration)                                                    
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Social Security Act of 1935, Title II and Title XVI, Section 1110, as amended;       
  42 U.S.C. 401-433, 902, 1310, 1381-1388c.                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  (1) To conduct social, economic, and demographic research on topics important        
  to the Social Security Old Age, Survivors and Disability Insurance and               
  Supplemental Security Income (SSI) programs and the current and future well-         
  being of their beneficiaries; (2) to develop and carry out experiments and           
  research demonstration projects to determine the efficacy of: (a) alternative ways   
  of rehabilitating beneficiaries and encouraging their return to work; and (b)        
  modifying conditions applicable to such beneficiaries including: (i) early referral  
  for rehabilitation services; and (ii) greater use of employers and others in the     
  rehabilitation and placement process.                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grants are awarded for innovative research and demonstrations which add to           
  existing knowledge and improve methods and techniques for the management,            
  administration, and effectiveness of Social Security Administration (SSA)            
  programs. Grant funds may not be used for construction or major renovation of        
  buildings.                                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Applicants applying for grant funds may include State and local governments,         
  educational institutions, hospitals, public and private organizations, and           
  nonprofit and profit organizations. Private individuals are not eligible to apply.   
  Profit organizations may apply with the understanding that no grant funds may        
  be paid as profit to grant recipients. Profit is considered any amount in excess of  
  the allowable costs of the grant recipient. A profit organization is a corporation   
  or other legal entity that is organized or operated for the profit or benefit of its 
  shareholders or other owners and must be distinguishable or legally separable        
  from that of an individual acting on his/her own behalf.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State agencies, local governments, educational institutions, hospitals, nonprofit    
  organizations, and profit organizations are eligible to apply for grant funding.     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs and administrative requirements for grantees will be determined in             
  accordance with Social Security Administration regulations 20 CFR 435 and            


1596                                                                             11-08

  437.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  SSA prefers that applications be submitted electronically through
  www.grants.gov. The www.grants.gov, "Getting Started" webpage is available
  to help explain the registration and application submission process. If applicants
  experience problems with the steps related to registering to do business with the
  Federal government or application submission, the first point of contact is the
  Grants.gov support staff at www.grants.gov/CustomerSupport. If difficulties
  are not resolved, applicants may also contact the SSA Grants Management Team
  for assistance. Applicants without Internet access should contact the Grants
  Management Office for further information on applying. Please fax inquiries to
  the Grants Management Team at 410-966-9310 or mailed to: Grants
  Management Team, Office of Acquisition and Grants, Social Security
  Administration, Attention: SSA-OAG-05-1, 7111 Security Blvd., 1st Floor Rear
  Entrance, Baltimore, MD 21244. Also, SSA grant program announcements and
  application information can be obtained from the SSA/OAG Internet site at:
  http://www.socialsecurity.gov/oag/grants/. To be considered for a grant award,
  all applicants must complete the prescribed application forms and submit them
  to the Grants Management Team. The application shall be executed by an
  individual authorized to act for the applicant agency or organization and who
  will assume the obligations imposed by the terms and conditions of the grant.
  As part of the project title, the applicant must clearly indicate whether the
  application submitted is in response to a priority area identified in a program
  announcement, and must reference the applicable priority area (e.g., "001") in
  which it is competing. At least three independent reviewers prepare written
  assessments of each program-relevant grant application. Applications found
  irrelevant to program objectives are returned to the applicants.
Award Procedure:
  OAG provides a Notice of Grant Award (or a Notice of Cooperative Agreement
  Award) as official notice for approved applications. The notice indicates award
  amount, the purpose of the award, award terms and conditions, the budget
  period, the anticipated project period, and the grantee's cost-sharing
  requirement.
Deadlines:
  Closing dates for receipt of grant applications are published in the Federal
  Register announcement (usually 60 to 90 days after date of publication in the
  Federal Register).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally, 3 to 6 months after the closing date established in the Federal
  Register announcement.
Appeals:
  There are no formal appeal procedures. If an application is not approved, the
  reasons will be stipulated in the denial notice.
Renewals:
  Grants can be extended and continued via formal application, which is subject to
  approval. If an application is recommended for approval for 2 or more budget
  years, the grantee must submit a formal request for funding continuation each
  year accompanied by a progress report. This will be evaluated prior to a
  recommendation of continuation of funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Grantees are required to share the cost of projects. The cost-sharing ranges from
  5 to 25 percent of total project costs. This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds are usually granted for a period of 12 to 17 months. Funds, however, can
  be granted for a minimum of 3 months, and up to a maximum of 60 months.
Reports:
  Progress and financial reports are required on all projects. Financial reports are
  required semi-annually. Interim financial reports are due within 30 days after
  the end of the first 6-month period. Quarterly progress reports are due within 30
  days after the end of each quarter of the budget period. Comprehensive final
  progress and financial reports are due no later than 90 days after the grant
  expires.
Audits:
  Audits shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular
  No. A-133 and SSA regulations 20 CFR 435 and 437. In accordance with the
  provisions of (OMB) Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, "nonfederal entities
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees must maintain financial records, supporting documents, statistical
  records and all other records pertinent to an award for 3 years. In the event of an
  audit, records must be maintained until all questions are resolved.
Account Identification:
  28-8704-0-7-601.
Obligations:
