  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $22,855,055; FY 08 est not available; and FY             
  09 est not reported.                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                                
  $100,000 to $1,750,000. Figures may vary with type of program.                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                  
  In fiscal year 2005, there were 52 awards totaling $17,079,060 all for                  
  continuation of existing projects. There were no new awards. In FY 2006, SSA            
  anticipates funding one new award for $7.7 million and 52 continuation awards           
  totaling $15.0 million.                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                  
  None.                                                                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                      
  Phyllis Y. Smith, Chief, Grants Management Officer, Office of Operations                
  Contracts and Grants, Office of Acquisition and Grants (OAG), DCFAM, Social             
  Security Administration, 7111 Security Blvd., 1st Floor Rear Entrance,                  
  Baltimore, MD 21244. Telephone: (410) 965-9518.                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                         
  http://www.socialsecurity.gov .                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                         
  84.133, National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research; 93.048,           
  Special Programs for the Aging_Title IV_and Title II_Discretionary Projects;            
  93.648, Child Welfare Services Training Grants; 93.779, Centers for Medicare            
  and Medicaid Services (CMS) Research, Demonstrations and Evaluations;                   
  96.008, Social Security - Work Incentives Planning and Assistance Program.              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                              
  (1) Poverty Among Older Women: A Cross National Perspective; (2) Disability             
  Research Institute: Partnership in a New Paradigm; (3) Putting the Pieces               
  Together for Employment; (4) Opening Doors to the Future for Adolescents with

                                                                                          
  Special Healthcare Needs; (5) Making Work Pay: Reducing Medicaid and Social             
  Security Barriers to Employment; (6) Work Incentive, Counseling and                     
  Assistance Program for SSI Recipients; and (7) Individual Planning for Self             
  Sufficiency.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                         
  Generally, applications are evaluated on the following criteria: (1) Adequacy of        
  project design; (2) relevance of the activity to the objectives of the program; (3)     
  qualifications of personnel; (4) adequacy of facilities to conduct activity; (5)        
  reasonableness of costs; and (6) usefulness of the results.                             
                                                                                          
96.008 SOCIAL SECURITY - WORK INCENTIVES                                                  
                                                                                          
PLANNING AND ASSISTANCE PROGRAM

                                                                                          
   (SSA Work Incentives Planning and Assistance (WIPA) Program)                           
                                                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                           
  SOCIAL SECURITY ADMINISTRATION                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                            
  Social Security Act, Section 1149(d); Section 121, Public Law 106-170; Ticket-          
  to-Work Incentives Improvement Act; Social Security Protection Act, Public              
  Law 108-203; Rehabilitation Act of 1973; Developmental Disabilities                     
  Rehabilitation and Assistance and Bill of Rights Act; Workforce Improvement             
  Act of 1998; Lobbying Disclosure Act; 2 U.S.C. 1611.                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                               
  To comply with the Ticket-to-Work and Work Incentives Improvement Act                   
  (TWWIIA) which was passed in December 1999, and reauthorized by the Social              
  Security Protection Act of 2004, which requires the SSA to establish a                  
  community-based work incentives planning and assistance program. The                    
  purpose of this Program is to disseminate accurate information to beneficiaries         
  with disabilities (including transition-to-work aged youth) about work incentives       
  programs, and issues related to such programs, to enable them to make informed          
  choices about working and whether or when to assign their Ticket to Work, as            
  well as how available work incentives can facilitate their transition into the          
  workforce. The ultimate goal of the WIPA Program is to assist beneficiaries             
  with disabilities succeed in their return to work efforts.                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                      
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                                
  Cooperative agreements are awarded to organizations to: (1) Provide statewide           
  work incentives planning and assistance, including information on the                   
  availability of protection and advocacy services, to all Social Security Disability     
  Insurance (SSDI) and Supplemental Security Income (SSI) beneficiaries with              
  disabilities, and to conduct ongoing outreach to those beneficiaries with               
  disabilities and to their families that are potentially eligible to participate in State
  or Federal work incentives programs. (2) Disseminate accurate information to            
  beneficiaries with disabilities (including transition-to-work aged youth) about         
  work incentives programs and issues related to such programs, to enable them to         
  make informed choices about working and whether or when to assign their                 
  Ticket to Work, as well as how available work incentives can facilitate their           
  transition into the workforce. Cooperative agreement funds may not be used for          


                                                                                     11-08
  construction or major renovation of buildings.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants applying for cooperative agreement funds may include State or local
  governments (excluding any State administering the Sate Medicaid program),
  public or private organizations, or nonprofit or for-profit organizations (for-
  profit organizations may apply with the understanding that no cooperative
  agreement funds may be paid as profit to any awardee), as well as Native
  American tribal organizations that the Commissioner determines is qualified to
  provide work incentives planning and assistance to all SSDI and SSI
  beneficiaries with disabilities, within the targeted geographic area. These may
  include Centers for Independent Living established under Title VII of the
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973, protection and advocacy organizations, Native
  American tribal entities, client assistance programs established in accordance
  with Section 112 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, State Developmental
  Disabilities Councils established in accordance with Section 124 of the
  Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act, and State agencies
  administering the State program funded under Part A of Title IV of the Act. The
  Commissioner may also award a cooperative agreement to a State or local
  Workforce Investment Board, a Department of Labor (DOL) One-Stop Career
  Center System established under the Workforce Improvement Act of 1998, or a
  State Vocational Rehabilitation agency. Cooperative agreements may not be
  awarded to any individual, the Social Security Administration Field Offices, any
  State agency administrating the State Medicaid program under Title XIX of the
  Act, any entity that the Commissioner determines would have a conflict of
  interest if the entity were to receive a cooperative agreement under the Work
  Incentives Planning and Assistance (WIPA) Program or any organization
  described in Section 501(c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1968 that
  engages in lobbying (in accordance with Section 18 of the Lobbying Disclosure
  Act of 1995, 2 U.S.C. 1611).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All SSDI and SSI beneficiaries with disabilities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs and administrative requirements for grantees will be determined in
  accordance with Social Security Administration regulations 20 CFR 435 and
  437.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms furnished by SSA must be used for this program.
  When cooperative agreement opportunities are available, SSA publishes a notice
  in the Federal Register soliciting cooperative agreement applications.
  Application packages will be provided at www.grants.gov. If extenuating
  circumstances prevent you from submitting an application through
  www.grants.gov please contact the Grants Management Team at Office of
  Acquisition and Grants (OAG), Social Security Administration, Attention:
  Phyllis Y. Smith or Gary Stammer, 1st Floor-Rear Entrance, 7111 Security
  Blvd., Baltimore, MD 21244. The telephone numbers are: Phyllis Y. Smith
  (410) 965-9518 or, Gary Stammer, (410) 965-9501. The fax number is (410)
  966-9310. To be considered for a cooperative agreement award, all applicants
  must complete the prescribed application forms, through www.grants.gov unless
  the applicant has received prior approval from OAG to submit a paper
  application to the Grants Management Team. The application shall be executed
  by an individual authorized to act for the applicant agency or organization who
  will assume the obligations imposed by the terms and conditions of the
  cooperative agreement. At least three independent reviewers prepare written
  assessments of each program relevant cooperative agreement application.
  Applications found irrelevant or unresponsive to program objectives are returned
  to the applicants.
Award Procedure:
  OAG provides a Notice of Cooperative Agreement Award as official notice for
  approved applications. The notice indicates award amount, the purpose of the
  award, award terms and conditions, the budget period, the anticipated project
  period, and the awardee's cost sharing requirement.
Deadlines:
  Closing dates for receipt of cooperative agreement applications are published in
  the Federal Register announcement (usually 30 to 60 days after date of
  publication in the Federal Register).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally, 3 to 6 months after the closing date established in the Federal
  Register announcement.
Appeals:
  There are no formal appeal procedures. If an application is not approved, the
  reasons will be stipulated in the denial notice.
Renewals:
  Cooperative agreements can be continued via formal continuation application,
  which is subject to approval. If an application is recommended for approval for 2
  or more budget periods, the awardee must submit a formal request for funding
  continuation each year. Continuation applications are evaluated prior to a
  recommendation of additional funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
                                                                                1597
