                                            DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

97.004 STATE DOMESTIC PREPAREDNESS EQUIPMENT                                           
SUPPORT PROGRAM                                                                        
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  U.S.A. Patriot Act of 2001, Public Law 107-56.                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To enhance the capacity of State and local first responders to respond to            
  terrorism incident involving chemical, biological, nuclear, radiological,            
  incendiary, and explosive devices. The program was re-named as the State             
  Homeland Security Grant Program (SHSGP) (97.073) and is one of the six (6)           
  component programs which were merged or consolidated into the Homeland               
  Security Grant Program (97.067).                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  States will receive an allocation of funds to purchase equipment for State and       
  local first responders, in accordance with the authorized equipment list included    
  in the Application Kit, and an allocation to support the planning and conduct of     
  exercises. Administrative funds will be provided to conduct comprehensive            
  threat and needs assessments and to develop and implement a Statewide                
  Domestic Preparedness Strategy to enhance first responder capabilities to            
  respond to a terrorist incident.                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Eligible applicants are the States, the District of Columbia, and the Territories of 
  Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Northern         
  Mariana Islands. References to "States" includes all eligible applicants.            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State and local governments.                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  To qualify to apply for grant funds, States were required to conduct a               
  comprehensive threat and needs assessment and to develop a Statewide                 
  Domestic Preparedness Strategy. Refer to program guidance document for               
  further information.                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental            
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                      
  application/program guidance.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.

  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the          
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.

Deadlines:                                                                             
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  The funds are allocated to the States on the basis of a formula that provides a      
  base amount to each State, with the balance of the funds distributed on the basis    
  of population. There is no match requirement for this program.                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                 
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                    
Reports:                                                                               
  Categorical Assistance Progress Reports (CAPR) are due within 30 days after          
  the end of the reporting periods, which are June 30 and December 31, for the life    
  of the award. Grantees are also required to submit quarterly financial and           
  reports. These reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30,    
  April 30, July 30, and October 30.final financial and CAPRs are due 90 days          
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,           
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"           
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal     
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.        
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are      
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular    
1600                                                                             11-08

  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0560-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $ est. not available; FY 08 $ est. not available; and FY 09 $ est.
  not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  States have completed risk and needs assessments and have developed Statewide
  Domestic Preparedness Strategies. States have identified equipment that is
  needed by first responders and have established priorities for the purchase and
  allocation of equipment. The strategies also identify the need for training,
  technical assistance, and exercises. ODP is working with the States to develop
  State Assistance Plans to allocate ODP resources to address the training,
  technical assistance, and exercise needs identified in the Statewide Domestic
  Preparedness Strategies.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Office of Justice Programs Financial Guide and The State Domestic
  Preparedness Equipment and Exercise Program Guidelines and Application Kit.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, Office of Grant Programs, C/O 245 Murray
  Lane, Bldg. #410, Washington, DC 20523. Telephone: (800) 368-6498.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ojp.usdoj.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.580, Edward Byrne Memorial State and Local Law Enforcement Assistance
  Discretionary Grants Program; 97.067, Homeland Security Grant Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.005 STATE AND LOCAL HOMELAND SECURITY
TRAINING PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2006, Public Law 109-
  90.
OBJECTIVES:
  To design, develop, and deliver training content and support for Federal, State,
  local, and tribal jurisdictions in accordance with DHS doctrine guidance and
  approved Homeland Security Strategies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Provides funding through cooperative and inter-agency agreements to the
  National Domestic Preparedness Consortium, Rural Domestic Preparedness
  Consortium, and Continuing and Emerging training providers for the purposes
  of the development and delivery of all-hazards training for Federal, State, local,
  and tribal emergency responders.
Applicant Eligibility:
  This is a closed solicitation, available only to eligible organizations. There are
  two categories funded: 1) Non-Federal members that make up the National
  Domestic Preparedness Consortium (NDPC) and the Rural Domestic
  Preparedness Consortium (RDPC) and consist of the following institutions:
  Louisiana State University, Texas A&M, New Mexico Institute of Mining and
  Technology, and Eastern Kentucky University; and 2) Continuing and Emerging
  Training Grant programs. These programs meet the continuing training needs of
  emergency responder communities and have received previous funding through
  a competitive process e.g., Competitive Training Grant Program (CTGP) or
  national associations that represent key stakeholders.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
