  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.    
                                                                                        
97.008 URBAN AREAS SECURITY INITIATIVE                                                  
                                                                                        
   (UASI)                                                                               
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007,Public                
  Law 110-53 and the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act,                
  2008, Division E, Consolidated Appropriation Act, 2008, Public Law 110-161.           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To support the unique multi-discipline planning, operations, equipment,               
  training, and exercise needs of high threat, high density Urban Areas, and to         
  assist them in building and sustaining capabilities to prevent, protect against,      
  respond to, and recover from threats or acts of terrorism.                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Formula Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Funds provided under this grant are designed to address the unique needs of           
  large urban areas and mass transit authorities. Funds can be used for equipment,      
  training, exercises and planning. Urban Areas must utilize their Urban Area           
  Homeland Security Strategy and the State's Program and Capability                     
  Enhancement Plan as the basis for requesting funds. There must be a clear             
  correlation between the goals, objectives, and priorities identified in the Urban     
  Area Homeland Security Strategy and UASI program activities. In addition, the         
  Urban Area Homeland Security Strategy must also be consistent with and                
  supportive of the State Homeland Security Strategy and the Program and                
  Capability Enhancement Plan submitted by the State as part of the HSGP                
  application. The UASI Nonprofit Security Grant Program (NSGP) provides                
  funds to support security enhancements to property owned or leased by nonprofit       
  organizations at high risk of attack from terrorist organizations.                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Applicant Eligibility: Selected city or combined entities identified within the       
  current year Homeland Security Grant Program guidance and application kit.            
  States that contain the selected cities will be notified of their eligibility to apply
  for this grant. The State agency with overall responsibility for developing the       
  State Homeland Security Strategy and administering homeland security grant            
  programs will be responsible for the administration of this program.In addition,      
  Nonprofit, 501(c)(3) organizations that are at deemed high risk of a potential        
  terrorist attack and are located within one of the specific UASI-eligible urban       
  areas are eligible to submit applications through their State Administrative          
  Agency (SAA) for (NSGP) funds.                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Local governments.                                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  None.                                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental             
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official       
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information    
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the   
  State has selected the program for review.                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                       
  application/program guidance.                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.           
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the           
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.

Deadlines:                                                                              
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                   
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Funds are allocated based on analysis of risk and the effectiveness of proposed       
  investments by the applicants. Risk for UASI jurisdictions is evaluated using a       
  consistent methodology of threat, vulnerability, and consequences. There is no        
  match requirement for this program.                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                  
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                     
Reports:                                                                                
  Grantees are required to submit an Initial Strategy Implementation Plan (ISIP)        
  within 60 days of the grant award date. Categorical Assistance Progress Reports       


                                                                                   11-08
  (CAPR) and Biannual Strategy Implementation Reports (BSIR) are required
  semi-annually. The CAPR and BSIR are due within 30 days after the end of the
  reporting period (July 30 with a reporting period of January 1 through June 30,
  and January 30 with a reporting period of July 1 through December 31) for the
  life of the award. Grantees are also required to submit quarterly Financial Status
  Reports (FSR). The FSR are due 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter
  on January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30. Final CAPR, BSIR, and FSR
  reports are due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant award,
  whichever occurs first.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0560-0-1-754.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $24,007,500 (remaining funding included in 97.067); FY 08
  $862,925,000; and FY 09 est $825,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Urban areas have completed threat, vulnerability, capabilities, and needs
  assessments and have developed Urban Area Homeland Security Strategies. The
  strategies identify the needs for planning, organization, equipment, training,
  exercises, and technical assistance.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  For regulations and guidelines please refer to the UASI section of the HSGP
  solicitation guidance and application kit.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane, Bldg. #410, Washington,
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.042, Emergency Management Performance Grants; 97.053, Citizen Corps;
  97.071, Metropolitan Medical Response System; 97.073 State Homeland
  Security Program (SHSP); 97.074, Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention
  Program (LETPP).
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.009 CUBAN/HAITIAN ENTRANT PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980, as amended, Title V, Section 501 C,
  Public Law 96-422, 94 Stat. 1809; Executive Order 12341, January 21, 1982;
  Economy Act of 1932, 31 U.S.C. 1535, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To provide primary resettlement services to Cubans and Haitians, paroled
  into the United States by the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) for
  humanitarian reasons and; (2) to provide secondary resettlement assistance to
  Cuban and Haitian entrants living in south Florida whose initial resettlement did
  not lead to their achievement of economic self-sufficiency.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance is limited to Cuban and Haitian entrants as defined in the authorizing
  Act. Federal policy governs further eligibility factors. The scope of services for
                                                                                     1603
