  which funds are available to grantees, or cooperative agreement recipients, are        
  defined in program announcements published in the Federal Register dated               
  March 9, 1981, January 5, 1983, July 5, 1985, April 12, 1988, June 26, 1989,           
  and January 5, 1995.                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  Public or Private, nonprofit organizations or agencies, and under certain              
  conditions for-profit organizations, agencies, or institutions.                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  Cuban and Haitian nationals who meet the definition of entrant set forth in Title      
  V, Section 501(e) of Public Law 96-422.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  Persons for whom assistance is authorized through resettlement programs are            
  limited to Cuban and Haitian nationals who possess documentation as described          
  in Title V of the Refugee Education Assistance Act of 1980 (Public Law 96-             
  422). This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  Preapplication coordination is not required. This program is eligible for              
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."             
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point      
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State           
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the      
  program for review. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB                   
  Circular No. A-102.                                                                    
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                        
  application/program guidance.                                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                         
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.            
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the            
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                                  
Deadlines:                                                                               
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                    
Appeals:                                                                                 
  None.                                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                                
  A grant or cooperative agreement may be amended in order to extend the                 
  program and budgetary period if funds are available and the proposed                   
  amendment does not represent a substantive deviation from previous services or         
  costs. Applications may also be renewed through the competitive process after          
  the end of the program period.                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  None.                                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                   
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                      
Reports:                                                                                 
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.           
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.        
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July      
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days            
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                    
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and           
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year   
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support      
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.     
Account Identification:                                                                  
  70-0504-0-1-999.                                                                       
Obligations:

                                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $8,688,037; FY 08 est $10,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.

                                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                         
  Refer to program guidance.

                                                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                         


1604                                                                               11-08

  For fiscal year 2004, it is estimated that 19,000 Cuban and Haitian entrants will
  be served. In fiscal year 2003, the program served over 12,000 Cuban and
  Haitian entrants.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Several regulations apply to the resettlement grants. Until further notice, these
  include but are not limited to: 28 CFR Part 42, Sub-parts C,G, H and OMB
  Circular Nos. A-110, A-122, A-133, and Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR),
  Sub-part 32.1.
Regional or Local Office:
  DHS, ICE, OIA, PHAB Miami Office: Room 220, 51 SW 1st Ave., Miami, FL
  33130. Telephone: (305) 536-4261.
Headquarters Office:
  U.S. Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane, Bldg 410
  Washington, DC 20258.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects funded in the past have included services to eligible Cubans and
  Haitians paroled from DHS custody. These services include resettlement in
  various parts of the United States and assistance with housing, basic necessities
  and employment.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
   The applicant provides for effective program structure and accountability as
  demonstrated by administrative and programmatic controls, as well as program
  and client records and reports. (10 POINTS) F. The adequacy of the program
  evaluation plan, including the methodology and criteria for evaluating effective
  of the program in resettling the clients. (10 POINTS). Programmatic control,
  predictability and accountability as evidenced by the structure and continuity
  inherent in the program design. (15 POINTS) 5. The adequacy of the plans for:
  a. developing and updating individual client service plans; and, b. the proposed
  system of case management. (10 POINTS) 6. The reasonableness of the
  proposed budget and budget narrative, in relation to proposed program activities.
  (10 POINTS) 7. The plan for program evaluation, including the methodology
  and criteria for evaluation the program. (5 POINTS) 8. The degree to which the
  application has provided written documented evidence of community support
  and acceptance of the program. (5 POINTS). Programmatic control,
  predictability and accountability as evidenced by the structure and continuity
  inherent in the program design. (15 POINTS) 5. The adequacy of the plans for:
  a. developing and updating individual client service plans; and, b. the proposed
  system of case management. (10 POINTS) 6. The reasonableness of the
  proposed budget and budget narrative, in relation to proposed program activities.
   (10 POINTS) 7. The plan for program evaluation, including the methodology
  and criteria for evaluation the program. (5 POINTS) 8. The degree to which the
  application has provided written documented evidence of community support
  and acceptance of the program. (5 POINTS) Programmatic control,
  predictability and accountability as evidenced by the structure and continuity
  inherent in the program design. (15 POINTS) 5. The adequacy of the plans for:
  a. developing and updating individual client service plans; and, b. the proposed
  system of case management. (10 POINTS) 6. The reasonableness of the
  proposed budget and budget narrative, in relation to proposed program activities.
   (10 POINTS) 7. The plan for program evaluation, including the methodology
  and criteria for evaluation the program. (5 POINTS) 8. The degree to which the
  application has provided written documented evidence of community support
  and acceptance of the program. (5 POINTS)mmatic control, predictability and
  accountability as evidenced by the structure and continuity inherent in the
  program design. (15 POINTS) 5. The adequacy of the plans for: a. developing
  and updating individual client service plans; and, b. the proposed system of case
  management. (10 POINTS) 6. The reasonableness of the proposed budget and
  budget narrative, in relation to proposed program activities. (10 POINTS) 7.
  The plan for program evaluation, including the methodology and criteria for
  evaluation the program. (5 POINTS) 8. The degree to which the application has
  provided written documented evidence of community support and acceptance of
  the program (5 POINTS).the applicant provides for effective program structure
  and accountability as demonstrated by administrative and programmatic
  controls, as well as program and client records and reports. (10 POINTS) F. The
  adequacy of the program evaluation plan, including the methodology and criteria
  for evaluating effective of the program in resettling the clients. (10 POINTS).
  Programmatic control, predictability and accountability as evidenced by the
  structure and continuity inherent in the program design. (15 POINTS) 5. The
  adequacy of the plans for: a. developing and updating individual client service
  plans; and, b. the proposed system of case management. (10 POINTS) 6. The
  reasonableness of the proposed budget and budget narrative, in relation to
  proposed program activities.
  (10POINTS) 7. The plan for program evaluation, including the methodology and
  criteria for evaluation the program. (5 POINTS) 8. The degree to which the
  application has provided written documented evidence of community support
  and acceptance of the program. (5 POINTS). Programmatic control,
