Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Headquarters Office: State Grants: W. Vann Burgess; Telephone: (202) 372-          
  1071; William.V.Burgess@uscg.mil. Nonprofit Organizations: Donald J. Kerlin;       
  Telephone: (202) 372-1054; Donald.J.Kerlin@uscg.mil. Division of Boating           
  Safety (CG-5422), U.S. Coast Guard Headquarters, 2100 Second Street, SW.,          
  Washington, DC 20593.                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.uscgboating.org http://www.dhs.gov.                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  97.011, Boating Safety.                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals. 
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
97.013 STATE ACCESS TO THE OIL SPILL LIABILITY                                       
TRUST FUND                                                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Oil Pollution Act of 1990, Public Law 101-380, Section 1012(d)(1).                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To encourage greater State participation in response to actual or threatened       
  discharges of oil.                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds are to be used for immediate removal action costs that are directly related  
  to a specific incident which occurs after August 18, 1990. Removal costs must      
  generally be incurred at the site or in support of site removal activities (e.g.,  
  salary costs for State officials actually engaged in the removal actions,          
  transportation costs for transporting persons and materials to the site, costs of  
  equipment usage and consumable, contract costs, and administrative costs for       
  preparing reports and documenting actions which occurred at the site). Limited     
  to $250,000 per incident. Removal actions must be consistent with the National     
  Contingency Plan (40 CFR 300) and must be approved by the cognizant Coast          
  Guard or Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) Federal On-Scene                    
  Coordinator (FOSC). Remedial actions and restorations are ineligible.              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  The Governor (or his or her designated State official) of any State including      
  Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, U.S. Virgin Islands, Northern Marianas,         
  and any other U.S. territory or possession may apply for financial assistance.     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State Governors.                                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicant must either be the Governor of a State or have on file at the NPFC a     
  letter signed by the Governor designating the applicant to be a State official     
  authorized to make a request. The application must establish: (1) the incident is  
  eligible for immediate removal under the Clean Water Act, as amended by OPA        
  90, (2) the substance discharged or threatening discharge is oil, (3) the incident 
  occurred after August 18, 1990, (4) the aggregate amount of the request is equal   
  to or less than $250,000, (5) the proposed removal actions are consistent with     
  the NCP (including 40 CFR 300,305(c)'s requirement that a reasonable effort is     
  made to have the discharger voluntarily and promptly perform removal actions),     
  (6) the proposed level of response, proposed actions, and money requested are      
  appropriate for the circumstances, and (7) the State has the means to complete     
  the immediate removal. Detailed application requirements are included in           
  publication entitled Technical Operating Procedures for State Access under         
  Section 1012(d) of OPA 90 (NPFCINST 16451.1).                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Application is initiated when the Governor or his or her designated State official 
  contacts the cognizant Federal On-Scene Coordinator (FOSC) and requests State      
  access to the Oil Spill Liability Trust Fund (OSLTF, or "the Fund") under 33       
                                                                                     
  CFR 133. This initial request may be made verbally. If the FOSC agrees that the

                                                                                     
  incident is eligible for State Access funding and that State access to the Fund is

                                                                                     
  the best method for addressing the incident, the FOSC will seek obligation of the

                                                                                     
  Fund from the National Pollution Funds Center (NPFC). Since the approval of a

  request establishes a Cooperative Agreement between the Coast Guard and the

  State, the provisions of 49 CFR 18 apply to the State Access process.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The National Pollution Funds Center will notify the State via telephone and hard



                                                                                11-08
  copy of the award approval and amount.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Due to the emergency nature of oil discharge incidents, an approval or
  disapproval decision will be made and communicated to the State as
  expeditiously as possible (considering the nature and scope of the incident and
  other operations) following receipt of the request.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  The State must complete a source (of oil discharge) and responsibility party
  investigation and forward it to the Coast Guard National Pollution Funds Center
  (NPFC) and the FOSC as soon as possible. The NPFC and the FOSC must be
  informed within 48 hours following the completion of immediate removal
  efforts. An Incident Report, a detailed documentation of all eligible costs
  incurred during the immediate removal, and forms and certifications prescribed
  49 CFR 18, 20, 29 and 90 are also required by the Coast Guard. All required
  forms, certifications, and other documentation are expected within 30 days
  following the completion of immediate removal efforts. Payment is not made
  until all materials are received and reviewed. The Coast Guard may deobligate
  the Fund for payment if all materials are not received within 90 days following
  the completion of immediate removal efforts. An amplifying Technical
  Operating Procedures publication (NPFCINST 16451.1) has been distributed to
  the States.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Due to the need to recover removal costs from responsible parties and the
  possibility of protracted litigation that may be associated with specific oil
  discharge removal incidents, State records must be kept for 10 years following
  submission of the final documents to the Coast Guard, or until the completion of
  litigation for a specific case, whichever is longer.
Account Identification:
  70-8185-0-7-403.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  States: $250,000 maximum per oil discharge incident.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  33 CFR 133, 40 CFR 300, 49 CFR 18, 20, 29, and 90, and Technical Operating
  Procedures for State Access to OSLTF (NPFCINST 16451.1).
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Drive, SW., Washington, DC
  20528. Telephone: (202) 494-9118.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposed immediate removal actions must be eligible under the Oil Pollution
  Act of 1990 (Public Law 101-380), consistent with the National Contingency
  Plan (40 CFR 300), appropriate for the amount requested, and within the
  capability of the State to perform.
97.014 BRIDGE ALTERATION
   (Truman-Hobbs Act)
                                                                                1607
