FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Rivers and Harbors Appropriations Act of 1899, Section 18, 30 Stat. 1153, 33         
  U.S.C. 502; Bridge Act of 1906, Sections 4 and 5, 34 Stat. 85, 33 U.S.C. 494,        
  495; Act of June 21, 1940, as amended; Truman-Hobbs Act, 54 Stat. 497, 33            
  U.S.C. 511-523.                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To accomplish alteration of obstructive bridges to render navigation through or      
  under it reasonably free, easy, and unobstructed for the benefit of navigation. In   
  accordance with the Coast Guard Authorization Act of 1996, permanent                 
  authority exists in 49 U.S.C. 104(e) to transfer funds from the Federal-Aid          
  Highways discretionary bridge program to the Coast Guard to finance alteration       
  of Truman-Hobbs obstructive highway bridges.                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds are reimbursed to bridge owner to cover payments of the Government's           
  share for work performed in altering the obstructive bridge in accordance with       
  the approved general plans and specifications. All changes to plans and              
  specifications need prior approval of the Coast Guard before reimbursement of        
  expenditure can be authorized. Costs of alteration attributable to the following     
  are ineligible: (1) direct and special benefits which will accrue to the bridge      
  owner as a result of the alteration, (2) the expectable savings in repair or         
  maintenance costs, (3) requirements of traffic by railroad or highway or both, (4)   
  increasing carrying capacity, (5) portion of the actual capital cost of the old      
  bridge or such part of the old bridge as may be altered or changed or rebuilt as     
  the used service life of the whole or a part, as the case may be, bears to the total 
  estimated service life of the whole or such part: Provided, that the part of the     
  cost of alteration of any bridge for both highway and railroad traffic, attributable 
  to the requirements of traffic by highway, shall be borne by the proprietor of the   
  highway. (6) Provided further, that in the event the alteration or relocation of any 
  bridge may be desirable for the reason that the bridge unreasonably obstructs        
  navigation, but also for some other reason, the Secretary may require equitable      
  contribution from any interested person, firm, association, corporation,             
  municipality, county, or State desiring such alteration or relocation for such       
  other reason, as a condition precedent to the making of an order for such            
  alteration or relocation. The United States shall bear the balance of the cost,      
  including that part attributable to the necessities of navigation. Bridge alteration 
  and relocation actions must comply with the provisions of the National               
  Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 (Public Law 91-190), as amended;             
  the CEQ Regulations (40 CFR 1500-1508) which implements NEPA; Executive              
  Order 11514, as amended, Protection and Enhancement of Environmental                 
  Quality; DOT Order 5610.1C, Procedures for Considering Environmental                 
  Impacts, and COMDTINST M16475.1C, NEPA Implementing Procedures.                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  (1) Any State, county, municipality, or other political subdivision or any           
  corporation, association, partnership, or individual owning or jointly owning any    
  lawful bridge over navigable waters of the United States which is used and           
  operated for the purpose of carrying railroad traffic, or both railroad and          
  highway traffic, or (2) Any State, county, municipality, or other political          
  subdivision owning or jointly owning any lawful bridge over the navigable            
  waters of the United States which is used and operated for the purpose of            
  carrying highway traffic.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Navigation, maritime transportation interests, commercial and recreational           
  boating public, marine traffic, ports, bridge owners, land transportation, and       
  general local public.                                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  A bridge must be determined to unreasonably obstruct navigation. This                
  determination is made by the Coast Guard after conducting an investigation and       
  determining that the navigational benefits that would accrue as a result of          
  altering the bridge equal or exceed the cost of alteration.                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  An applicant should contact the Coast Guard District bridge staff or                 
  Headquarters bridge staff for information as to what is necessary to support         
  his/her complaint that a bridge is unreasonably obstructive to navigation. This      
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review         
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official             
  designated as the single point of contact in his/her State for more information on   
  the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the     
  State has selected the program for review.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  A formal written complaint stating that a bridge is unreasonably obstructive is      
  made to the appropriate Coast Guard District Commander who determines                
  through informal discussions with the complainant, waterway users, other             
  interested parties, whether or not a preliminary investigation is required.          
  Impediments to highway or railway are not valid complaints. In some cases,           
  based on the accident history of a bridge alone, a preliminary investigation may     
  be initiated by the District Commander. Computing benefits is not a                  


1608                                                                             11-08

  responsibility of the complainant, it is a Coast Guard responsibility.
  Environmental considerations also do not enter into consideration for
  determining whether or not a bridge is unreasonably obstructive.
Award Procedure:
  When preliminary investigation of the District Commander indicates sufficient
  benefits to navigation are not readily available to at least justify a detailed
  investigation, the District Commander informs the complainant that there is no
  sufficient evidence to warrant further investigation and closes the case.
  However, when the preliminary investigation indicates that the bridge may be
  unreasonably obstructive, the District Commander undertakes a detailed
  investigation with the approval of the Commandant (G-OPT). The Coast Guard
  District holds a public hearing to determine the facts upon which a firm decision
  to alter or not alter is made. The detailed investigation is reviewed by the
  Commandant, if the navigational benefit equals to or is greater than the cost of
  the bridge alteration, then the bridge is declared unreasonably obstructive to
  navigation and therefore, becomes eligible for Federal funding under the
  Truman-Hobbs Act. For additional details refer to 33 CFR 116.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  1. Within six months from the start of the preliminary investigation, if sufficient
  costs to navigation are not readily available to justify a detailed investigation,
  the case is closed out by the District Commander. 2. Extension of time beyond
  the six months may be allowed provided a quarterly progress report is forwarded
  to the Commandant. 3. Final investigation report including the benefit and cost
  ratio which becomes the basis for the determination to declare the bridge an
  unreasonable obstruction to navigation is completed within a 3-year period from
  the date of initial complaint.
Appeals:
  Within 60 days of the District Commander's decision that the case is closed, an
  appeal must be submitted in writing to the U. S. Coast Guard Directorate of
  Operations Policy (G-OP), 2100 Second Street, SW., Washington, DC 20593-
  0001. Commandant will take action on the appeal within 90 days of the receipt
  of the appeal.
Renewals:
  The case may be reopened at any time if changes in navigation occur or
  additional information is provided.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The general statutory procedures which serve as the basis of determining the
  proportionate shares of the total cost of the project to be borne by the United
  States and by the bridge owner is described in the Act of June 21, 1940, as
  amended (Truman-Hobbs Act)(54 Stat. 497, 33 U.S.C. 516). The general
  procedure and statutory requirements are also listed in 33 CFR 116.30. In the
  event the alteration or relocation of any bridge may be desirable for reasons that
  the bridge unreasonably obstructs navigation, but also for some other reasons,
  equitable contribution from any interested person, firm, association, corporation,
  municipality, county, or State desiring such alteration or relocation as a
  condition precedent to making an order for alteration or relocation. The United
  States bears the balance of the cost including that part attributable to the
  necessities of navigation.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  There is no restriction placed on the time period over which the payment of the
  total share of the United States is made except the time period should be
  reasonable. This time period is determined by the Commandant. After approving
  the general plans and specifications for the alteration of such bridge, the
  guarantee of the owner not to exceed the total project cost, the fixing of
  proportionate shares of the United States and the owner, out of the funds
  appropriated by Congress, reimbursement or payment to the bridge owner begins
  on such construction costs as the work progresses and upon receipt of the
  certification of completion.
Reports:
  Monthly progress reports of design and construction. Monthly bills indicating
  payment has been made so that reimbursement can be made.
Audits:
  DOT Audit is made at the completion of the alteration and final payment of the
  last bill and to ensure that funds have been applied to the project efficiently,
  economically, effectively and no overcharges have been made to the project. The
  audit procedure mandated for the program is the IG Act of 1978, as amended,
  and DOT Order No. 2900.
Records:
  The bridge owner is required to maintain all financial records, bills and
  payments, in-house force account records, time and attendance, contract
  documents, final acceptance of the project, and receipt of all payments.
Account Identification:
  70-0614-0-1-403.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $16,029,044; FY 08 est $16,400,000; FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In previous fiscals years, when payments were issued, the range of financial
