  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington,        
  DC 20528.                                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.dhs.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  None.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  None.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Fire departments which fight fires on Federal property for which they are not    
  otherwise reimbursed may be reimbursed under this program for direct losses      
  and direct expenses over and above normal operating expenses. The amount of      
  reimbursement is subject to availability of funds (see 44 CFR 151.12). All       
  claims must be accompanied by sufficient supporting data to prove expenses and   
  losses incurred in the amount claimed.                                           
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
97.018 NATIONAL FIRE ACADEMY TRAINING

                                                                                   
ASSISTANCE                                                                         
   (Student Stipend Reimbursement Program)                                         
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; U.S.A. Patriot Act of         
  2001, Public Law 107-56; Federal Emergency Management Agency, Executive          
  Order 12127, 44FR 19367, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp. P. 376; The Federal Fire              
  Prevention and Control Act of 1974, Public Law 93-498, Section 21 ( and b).      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To provide travel stipends to students attending Academy courses.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                               
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  Presently, the program covers reimbursement for the cost of a 21-day pre-        
  purchase, nonrefundable ticket for round-trip transportation by common carrier,  
  or privately owned vehicle mileage reimbursement not to exceed the cost of the   
  airline ticket, for resident program courses at various locations and a limited  
  stipend for selected regional delivery courses throughout the nation. For        
  Resident Program courses, students are required to pay the cost of meals daily.  
  For Regional Delivery courses, a limited stipend of up to $100 for a one-week    
  course and up to $200 for a two-week course is provided to help offset students' 
                                                                                   
  transportation and lodging. Reimbursements are not made to Federal employees

                                                                                   
  who are attending on behalf of their employer, employees from private industry,

                                                                                   
  or foreign students.

                                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                   
  Any student who is a member of a fire department or has significant

                                                                                   
  responsibility for fire prevention and control and has been accepted into an

                                                                                   
  eligible course at the National Fire Academy may apply for stipend

                                                                                   
  reimbursement. Federal or private industry employees or foreign students may

  be accepted into National Fire Academy courses but are not eligible for stipend

  reimbursement.                                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Student or sponsoring organization.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  Student Stipend Agreement (FEMA Form 75-3) and Student Stipend Agreement         
  (Amendment) (FEMA Form 75-3a) accompanied by a copy of the required              
  supporting documentation. This program is excluded from coverage under           
  OMB Circular No. A-87.                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                         
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Application is made to the National Emergency Training Center Admission's        
  Office using the Student Stipend Agreement (FEMA Form 75-3) and Student          
  Stipend Agreement (Amendment) (FEMA Form 75-3a) after acceptance into the        
  course. The Student Stipend Agreement must be accompanied by the required        
  supporting documentation. The completed agreement package will be processed      
                                                                                   
  immediately. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.

                                                                                   
  A-110.

                                                                                   
Award Procedure:

  The completed agreement package will be processed immediately. A U.S.            
  Department of the Treasury payment schedule will be prepared and a               
  reimbursement check issued directly to the beneficiary.                          
                                                                                   
Deadlines:

  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Refer to program guidance document.                                              
Appeals:                                                                           
  May be made to the Superintendent of the National Fire Academy, or his           
  designee.                                                                        
Renewals:                                                                          
                                                                                   
                                                                              11-08
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There is no match requirement for this program. However, students are required
  to pay for their meals.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  70-0564-0-1-800.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $1,365,012; FY 08 est $1,600,000; and FY 09 est
  $1,600,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In previous fiscal years, assistance in the form of stipend funds were provided to
  over 4,200 participants in the National Fire Academy Program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  National Fire Academy Course Catalog, course schedules.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington,
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.019, National Fire Academy Educational Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Students are provided an opportunity to attend courses at the National Fire
  Academy resident facility with a minimal cost to the individual or the fire
  department represented. The increase in the number of students attending
  impacts on increasing the professional level of fire service personnel.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selection.
97.019 NATIONAL FIRE ACADEMY EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; U.S.A. Patriot Act of
  2001, Public Law 107-56; Federal Emergency Management Agency, Executive
  Order 12127, 44FR 19367, 3 CFR, 1979 Comp. P. 376; The Federal Fire
  Prevention and Control Act of 1974, Public Law 93-498, Section 21 (and b).
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase the professional level of the fire service and others responsible for
  fire prevention and control.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Training is provided at the resident training facility to support State or local fire
  organizations. The program is not available to the general public or to
  individuals who do not have a need for the information as part of their normal
  responsibilities. Eligible participants are selected based on their application
  submitted to the National Fire Academy.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any individual who is a member of a fire department or has significant
  responsibility for fire prevention and control.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any individual who is a member of a fire department or has significant
  responsibility for fire prevention and control.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The individual may be required to provide documentation related to their roles
  and responsibilities in fire prevention and control.
Preapplication Coordination:
                                                                                     1611
