  For train-the-trainer and in-service instructor trainees, nominations are sought 
  from State fire training directors and metropolitan fire department chiefs. This 
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                              
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Application for resident and regional courses is made to the National            
  Emergency Training Center Admission's Office using the General Admission         
  Application (FEMA Form 75-5). Application for weekend on-campus courses          
  and off-campus courses is made through the appropriate State or metropolitan     
  fire training agency.                                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.      
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the      
  successful applicant.                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                         
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Refer to program guidance document.                                              
Appeals:                                                                           
  May be made to the Superintendent of the National Fire Academy.                  
Renewals:                                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Reports:                                                                           
  None.                                                                            
Audits:                                                                            
  There may be an evaluation of the benefit derived by the community as a result   
  of attendance at a particular course.                                            
Records:                                                                           
  None.                                                                            
Account Identification:                                                            
  70-0564-0-1-800.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Direct Program Expenditure) FY 07 $6,575,197; FY 08 est $6,600,000; and FY      
  09 est $6,600,000.                                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  In prior fiscal years, approximately 5,239 students participated in the National 
  Fire Academy resident program; 787 students participated in Regional             
  Deliveries; and 2,872 individuals participated in the State Weekend program. An  
  estimated 60,000 individuals participated in educational opportunities through   
  other Academy off-campus and train-the-trainer program.                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  National Fire Academy Course Catalog.                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  None.                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane Bldg #410, Washington,          
  DC 20528.                                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.dhs.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  None.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Students are provided an opportunity to attend courses at the National Fire      
  Academy resident facility or at a convenient off-campus location with a minimal  
  cost to the individual or the fire department represented. The increase in the   
  number of students attending on increases the professional level of fire service 
  personnel.                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selection.         
                                                                                   
97.020 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS TRAINING PROGRAM                                        
                                                                                   
   (SARA Title III Training Program)

                                                                                   
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act            
  (CERCLA) of 1980, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 9615 et seq.; Superfund                  
  Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Public Law 99-499, 42 U.S.C.         
                                                                                   
  9662 et seq.

                                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                   
  To make funding available to provide training in support of Tribal governments

                                                                                   
  emergency planning, preparedness, mitigation, response, and recovery

                                                                                   
  capabilities. These programs must provide special emphasis on emergencies

                                                                                   
  associated with hazardous chemicals.

                                                                                   
1612                                                                         11-08

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funds are authorized to provide education and training programs for tribal
  personnel with special emphasis on hazardous chemicals and related chemical
  emergencies. The funds are intended to improve emergency planning,
  emergency notification, hazardous chemical reporting, preparedness, mitigation,
  response and recovery capabilities in support of Title III. Possible sources for
  this program include Federal training activities and conferences, State training
  programs, private sector training, university training centers, and other training
  sources. Funding may also be used to pay contractual services acquired for the
  specific purpose of training and educating the tribes. In FY 2000, State grants
  under this authority were incorporated into FEMA's Emergency Management
  Performance Grant (EMPG).
Applicant Eligibility:
  These funds are available to Federally-recognized Indian Tribal governments.
  States and U.S. territories must apply for Emergency Management Performance
  Grants.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  None.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The matching requirement is 20 percent that may be satisfied with cash or third
  party in-kind contributions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The assistance is normally available for one year. The assistance is awarded in a
  lump sum.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: Jan. 30, April 30, July 30,
  and Oct. 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days after the
  expiration or termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0711-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Under Performance Partnership Agreements, States have been given additional
  flexibility to meet their hazardous materials risk requirements. No quantitative
  data is available.
