REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  FY 2000 Hazardous Materials Training Program Guidance for Tribal Nations            
  Implementation of SARA Title III.                                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  FEMA Regional Training Officer.                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington,           
  DC 20528.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.dhs.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  97.042, Emergency Management Performance Grants.                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  OSHA required hazardous materials training, training for LEPC planning and          
  prevention activities, training to conduct hazard analyses, training for exercises  
  in evaluation activities, and training for local response agencies in planning and  
  standard operating procedures (SOP) development.                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.  
                                                                                      
97.021 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ASSISTANCE                                                 
                                                                                      
PROGRAM                                                                               
   (CERCLA Implementation)                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act                
  (CERCLA) of 1980, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq.; Superfund                     
  Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986; Executive Order 12148, Federal          
  Emergency Management; Executive Order 12580, Superfund Implementation,              
  42 U.S.C. 9662 et seq.                                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To support States, local and Indian tribal governments in oil and hazardous         
  materials emergency planning and exercises and enhance their capabilities to        
  interact with the National Response System (NRS); through the States, provide       
  technical and financial assistance to support activities under the Comprehensive    
  Hazardous Materials (Hazmat) Emergency Response - Capability Assessment             
  Program (CHER-C).                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funding must be used for planning, exercising and educational projects that will    
  serve to enhance emergency management capabilities for dealing with oil and         
  hazardous materials releases. Certain equipment purchases are not authorized:       
  such as automated data processing and facsimile machines and any other              
  equipment acquired for the sole purpose of carrying out the day-to-day work         
  activities. However, equipment purchased exclusively for the implementation of      
  exercises and/or CHER-CAP activities (disposable personal protective                
  equipment, simulated emergency response equipment used only for training) are       
  authorized. Reimbursement of salaries and benefits is restricted, and funding for   
  contractual support is permitted. Funding for training and educational programs     
  are limited, and may not be used to supplement the nonfederal matching              
  requirements associated with Hazardous Materials Transportation Act (HMTA),         
  or SARA Title III funds, nor used to attend courses available under any other       
  FEMA programs when separate funds are available for that training.                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The funds are available to States, locals, tribes, U.S. territories, State Emergency
  Response Committees (SERCs), and Local Emergency Planning Commissions               
  (LEPCs).                                                                            
                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  States, locals, tribes, U.S. territories, State Emergency Response Committees       
                                                                                      
  (SERCs), and Local Emergency Planning Commissions (LEPCs).

Credentials/Documentation:

  Applicant must submit to the FEMA Regional Office a work plan describing the        
  proposal.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the

                                                                                      
  application/program guidance.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.

                                                                                      
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the         
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Refer to program guidance document.

                                                                                      


                                                                                 11-08
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The FEMA Regional PT Office determines the allocation for each applicant
  based on the proposal, the FEMA/EPA Interagency Agency Agreement and
  previous funding and accomplishments.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants or cooperativeagreements are awarded for a period of one year.
  Exceptions may be granted at the discretion of the Region PT Division Director
  refer to the program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0711-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $ est. not available; FY 08 $ est. not available; and FY 09 $ est.
  not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the appropriate FEMA regional office responsible for coordinating
  program activities.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington,
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.020, Hazardous Materials Training Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Planning and/or exercise projects.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.022 FLOOD INSURANCE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, 42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To enable persons to purchase insurance against physical damage to or loss of
  buildings and/or contents therein caused by floods, mudslide (i.e., mudflow), or
  flood-related erosion, thereby reducing Federal disaster assistance payments, and
  to promote wise floodplain management practices in the Nation's flood-prone
  and mudflow-prone areas.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Insurance.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Under the Emergency Program of the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP),
                                                                                     1613
