  property owners may buy flood insurance at a chargeable premium rate that is        
  generally lower than a normal actuarial rate. Maximum amounts of such               
  coverage available under the Emergency Program of the NFIP are: $35,000 for a       
  single-family home (higher limits are available in Hawaii, Alaska, Guam and the     
  U.S. Virgin Islands), $100,000 for all other residential structures, plus $10,000   
  per dwelling unit for any contents; for nonresidential structures, an aggregate     
  liability for any single structure of $100,000 and for contents, $100,000 per unit. 
  Once a detailed flood insurance risk study has been completed and the               
  community enters the Regular Program, additional coverage on existing               
  properties may be purchased at actuarial rates. As of March 1, 1995, the            
  maximum coverage available under the Regular Program is: $250,000 for single-       
  family residential structures; 250,000 times this number of condominium units       
  for a residential condominium building, $250,000 for all other residential          
  structures; $100,000 for contents per dwelling unit; $500,000 for non-residential   
  structures; $500,000 for contents of non-residential structures. Effective October  
  1, 1983, coverage is no longer available for finished portions of basements with    
  the exception of equipment necessary to make the building habitable, (e.g.,         
  furnaces). Properties built within identified special flood hazard areas after the  
  effective date of the Flood Insurance Rate Map are eligible for flood insurance     
  only at actuarial rates. Under the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973,           
  effective March 2, 1974, flood insurance must be purchased as a condition of        
  any form of Federal or federally-related financial assistance, including Federal    
  grants, disaster assistance, and mortgage loans from federally regulated lending    
  institutions and FHA, Farmers Home Administration, VA or guaranteed                 
  mortgages when the improved real property to which the transaction applies is       
  located within identified special flood hazard areas where flood insurance is       
  available. Communities having one or more identified special flood hazard areas     
  must enter into the National Flood Insurance Program within 1 year of the           
  official identification of their special flood hazard areas or be denied Federal    
  financial assistance for acquisition or construction purposes within those areas.   
  Federally regulated conventional sources (i.e., banks, savings and loan             
  associations, or similar lending institutions) are permitted to make loans secured  
  by improved real estate or Manufactured Housing located or to be located in the     
  identified special flood hazard area of a nonparticipating community which has      
  been formally identified as flood-prone for more than 1 year, but Federal disaster  
  assistance for acquisition or construction purposes will not be available in the    
  event of flood or flood-related property damage. The conventional lender is         
  statutorily required to notify the borrower, before making a loan in such an area,  
  whether Federal disaster assistance will be available to the property. The Coastal  
  Barrier Improvement Act of 1990 amended the Coastal Barrier Resources Act of        
  1982 by greatly enlarging the acreage included in the designated coastal barrier    
  resources system unit. The 1990 Act also added "otherwise protected areas."         
  "Otherwise protected areas" are defined as an undeveloped coastal barrier within    
  the boundaries of an area established under Federal, State, or local law, or held   
  by a qualified organization, primarily for wildlife refuge, sanctuary, recreational 
                                                                                      
  or natural resource conservation purposes. The 1982 Act prohibits the sale of

                                                                                      
  new flood insurance on or after October 1, 1983 for new construction or

                                                                                      
  substantial improvements of structures located on any coastal barrier with the

                                                                                      
  Coastal Barrier Resources System designated by this Act. The1990 Act prohibits

                                                                                      
  the sale of new

                                                                                      
  floodinsuranceonorafterNovember 16, 1990 for new construction or substantial

                                                                                      
  improvements of structures located on any new coastal barrier within the Coastal

                                                                                      
  Barrier Resources System designated or modified by this Act. It also prohibits

                                                                                      
  the sale of new flood insurance on or after November 16, 1991 for new

                                                                                      
  construction or substantial improvements of structures located in an otherwise

                                                                                      
  protected area that are not used in a manner consistent with the purpose of the

                                                                                      
  otherwise protected area. Subsequent pieces of legislation have added or deleted

                                                                                      
  areas. Also, the Secretary of the Interior is authorized to make technical          
  revisions and modifications to the boundaries of such units as may be necessary.    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Flood insurance can be made available in any community (a State or political        
  subdivision thereof with authority to adopt and enforce floodplain management       
  measures for the areas within its jurisdiction) that submits a properly completed   
  application to FEMA including copies of enacted floodplain management               
  measures consistent with the National Flood Insurance Program regulations.          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Residents, business, and property owners in applicant community, in which like      
  States can insure municipal structures.                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Same as Applicant Eligibility. This program is excluded from coverage under         
  OMB Circular No. A-87.                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under 44 CFR Part 13 and E.O.          
  12372.                                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Community officials must submit an NFIP eligibility application form, which is      
  available from the FEMA, together with: copies of adopted floodplain                
  management measures meeting the minimum standards of 44 CFR Section                 
  60.3(a), 60.3(b), 60.3(c), 60.3(d), and/or 60.3(e), as appropriate for the type of  
  flood hazards identified; a list of any incorporated communities within the

1614                                                                            11-08

  applicant's boundaries; and estimates of population and, by kind, of buildings
  situated in the known flood-prone areas of the community. Such Applications
  should be submitted to the Mitigation Directorate, FEMA, Washington, DC
  20472. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-
  110.
Award Procedure:
  FEMA reviews the application and if complete, designates the community as
  participating. The community is informed of its admission, and notice is
  published in the Federal Register. Residents and property owners may then
  purchase flood insurance through any property insurance agent or broker.
Deadlines:
  Communities with one or more identified special flood hazard areas must enter
  the program within 1 year after the identification of those areas or else
  prohibitions against Federally related financial assistance for acquisition or
  construction purposes in identified special flood hazard areas take force. Once
  the community does qualify, after the prescribed date, these prohibitions are
  removed. Adequate floodplain management measures must be in effect within 6
  months of the date that the special flood hazard area is identified and within 6
  months of the date flood water surface elevations are provided.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  For complete applications, a maximum of 10 working days is allowed for review
  and notification.
Appeals:
  Communities are allowed to appeal flood-prone identification and are also given
  an opportunity to appeal proposed flood elevation determinations for new
  construction and substantial improvement of existing structures in the special
  flood hazard areas. Notice of the proposed elevations is published in the Federal
  Register and is sent directly to the local governments. Following notification to
  the local government, the notice of proposed flood elevation determinations is
  published twice during a 10-day period in a prominent newspaper. The local
  community and its individual residents then have 90 days following the second
  newspaper notice to submit any scientific or technical data that tend to negate or
  contradict FEMA's findings. If a conflict in data exists and cannot be resolved at
  the community level, the community consolidates all individual appeals for
  review by FEMA. FEMA shall resolve the appeals by consultation with officials
  of the local government, or by submission of conflicting data to an independent
  scientific body, or by administrative hearings.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  Every two years to FEMA on progress of the floodplain management program.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have
  an audit made for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000
  a year in Federal awards is exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Specific elevation information on proposed new construction or substantial
  improvements in the area of special flood hazard. Backup data for biennial
  report.
Account Identification:
  70-4236-0-4-453.
Obligations:
  (Insurance) FY 07 $128,084,050; FY 08 est $138,000,000; and FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Claims paid: $1 to $1,900,000; $24,920.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  As of February 2008, 20,519 communities participated; 5,584,763 policies in
  force; and $1,132,441,070,300 insurance in force.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulation 44 CFR 59 et seq. Publication, "Answers to Questions About the
  National Flood Insurance Program," "Mandatory Purchase of Flood Insurance
  Guidelines," "Elevated Residential Structures," "Guide To Flood Insurance Rate
  Maps," "Flood Insurance Manual" (agents manual), "National Flood Insurance
  Program. Application Forms," "Manufactured Home Installation in Flood
  Hazard Areas," "Coastal Construction Manual," Alluvial Fans: Hazards and
  Management," "Floodplain Management in the United States: An Assessment
  Report," "Design Guidelines for Flood Damage Reduction" and "Repairing Your
  Flooded Home," "Technical Bulletin Series (FIA-TB)" "Answers to Questions
  About Substantially Damaged Buildings," "Reducing Losses in High Risk Flood
  Hazard Areas," "Design Manual for Retrofitting Flood- Prone Residential
  Structures" and "Flood Proofing Non-Residential Structures."
Regional or Local Office:
