  Contact the appropriate FEMA regional office, or the State office responsible for
  coordinating the program's activities.                                           
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency             
  (FEMA), c/o 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington, DC 20523.                  
  Telephone: (800) 621-FEMA(3363).                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.fema.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  10.450, Crop Insurance; 59.008, Disaster Assistance Loans.                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  None.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  None.                                                                            
                                                                                   
97.023 COMMUNITY ASSISTANCE PROGRAM STATE                                          
                                                                                   
SUPPORT SERVICES ELEMENT (CAP-SSSE)

                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq.;        
  Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended. 42 U.S.C. 4002 et seq.        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To ensure that communities participating in the National Flood Insurance         
  Program (NFIP) are achieving flood loss reduction measures consistent with       
  program direction. The CAP-SSSE is intended to identify, prevent and resolve     
  floodplain management issues in participating communities before they develop    
  into problems requiring enforcement action.                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants.                                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  The CAP-SSSE is a product-oriented program directly related to the flood loss    
  reduction objectives of the NFIP. Available CAP-SSSE funding is provided on a    
  75 percent maximum Federal and 25 percent minimum State cost-sharing basis.      
  Both cash and in-kind resources must be specifically identified to designated    
  activities. States estimate product completion as described in a mutually        
  negotiated grant agreement.                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  FEMA's ten Regional Offices will provide each State Governor's Office with the   
  grant application package. The CAP-SSSE is administered through the              
  Mitigation Division of each FEMA Regional Office. FEMA's Regional Offices        
  will contact eligible States to negotiate a mutually acceptable grant agreement. 
  Funding is made available when the grant agreement is negotiated and agreed      
  upon. Continued participation in the CAP-SSSE is dependent upon completing       
  activities described in the grant agreement. The SSSE is designed to utilize the 
  floodplain management capabilities of individual States in a cost effective      
  cooperative agreement with FEMA. A State's participation in the SSSE is          
  voluntary and is contingent upon need and skill level capability.                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  The direct beneficiary of the CAP-SSSE is the individual State receiving         
  financial assistance. In addition, participating NFIP communities and local      
  governments which receive flood plain management and flood loss reduction        
  assistance provided by the State are also (indirect) beneficiaries as a          
  consequence of the services they receive.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  A State's participation in the CAP-SSSE is voluntary and is contingent upon      
  need and skill level capability as determined by FEMA. In addition, applicant    
  states are required to provide any relevant documentation contained in the grant 
  agreement. package provided by FEMA.                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  Need and skill level capability will be determined through consultation with     
  States and FEMA Regional Office Mitigation Division points of contact. An        
  Environmental Impact Statement is not required for this program. This program

  is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                      
Application Procedure:

  Application deadline and other information are contained in the

                                                                                   
  application/program guidance.                                                    
Award Procedure:

  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.      
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the      
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                            
Deadlines:                                                                         
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Refer to program guidance document.                                              
Appeals:                                                                           
  Appeals can be made to the appropriate FEMA Regional Office.                     
Renewals:                                                                          
  Participation in the CAP-SSSE can be renewed each year contingent upon           


                                                                              11-08
  meeting requirements.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funding is provided on a 75 percent Federal, 25 percent State cost-sharing basis.
   Both cash and in-kind resources may meet the 25 percent cost-share.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-4236-0-4-453.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $7,500,000; FY 08 est. $7,500,000; and FY 09 $ est. not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In preceding fiscal years, approximately 50 applications have been awarded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  CAP-SSSE reference guidance is contained in the CAP-SSSE grant agreement
  application.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV for list for FEMA Regional Office addresses and phone
  numbers. In addition, you may contact the State office responsible for
  coordinating CAP-SSSE activities.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane Bldg. #410, Washington,
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.022, Flood Insurance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Community Assistance Visits/Contacts (CAV/CAC), Floodplain Management,
  Ordinance Assistance, Coordination Meeting with Regional Office, Community
  Rating System Application Assistance and Review/Workshops, Flood Loss
  Reduction Assistance and Publications, General Technical Assistance.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.024 EMERGENCY FOOD AND SHELTER NATIONAL
BOARD PROGRAM
   (Emergency Food and Shelter)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Stewart B. McKinney Homeless Assistance Act of 1987, as amended, Title III,
  Sections 301-316, Public Law 100-77, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 11331-11346.
OBJECTIVES:
  To supplement and expand ongoing efforts to provide shelter, food, and
  supportive services for needy families and individuals. To strengthen efforts to
  create more effective and innovative local programs by providing supplemental
  funding for them. To conduct minimum rehabilitation of existing mass shelter or
  mass feeding facilities, but only to the extent necessary to make facilities safe,
                                                                                     1615
