  sanitary and bring them into compliance with local building codes.                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Food and related expenses (such as transporting food/food preparation and           
  serving equipment); mass shelter; other shelter (such as hotels and motels); and    
  rent/mortgage and/or utility assistance limited to one month; and limited repairs   
  to feeding and sheltering facilities. Emergency Food and Shelter (EFS)              
  National Board Program funds cannot be used for: rental security, deposits of       
  any kind, cash payments of any kind, lobbying efforts, salaries (except as          
  administrative allowance and limited to that total allowance of 2 percent of total  
  award), purchases or improvements of an individual's private property,              
  telephone costs, repairs to government-owned or profit-making facilities and        
  any payments for services not incurred. For a complete listing on eligible and      
  ineligible costs under this program, refer to the current Phase (fiscal year):      
  Responsibilities and Requirements, issued by the Emergency Food and Shelter         
  Program National Board.                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Since funds are initially distributed to jurisdictions based on either a National   
  Board formula or recommendations from State Set-Aside Committees, there is          
  no application process for jurisdictions. All jurisdictions are considered within   
  the National Board formula and all jurisdictions in an individual State may be      
  considered by the State Set-Aside Committee for either initial or additional (if    
  the jurisdiction had previously been selected by the National Board) funding.       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  The law directs that the Local Boards, which manage the program at the local        
  level, shall "determine which private nonprofit organizations or public             
  organizations of the local government in the individual locality shall receive      
  grants to act as service providers." The range of local participant groups          
  includes the affiliates of the National Board membership which consists of the      
  American Red Cross, Catholic Charities, USA, United Jewish Communities,             
  National Council of Churches of Christ in the USA, The Salvation Army and           
  United Way of America, with a local government representative replacing             
  FEMA. Also participating are thousands of independent nonprofits (such as           
  Community Action Agencies and Food Banks and food pantries) which provide           
  food and/or shelter services. Due to the broad category of people in need of such   
  emergency services, the providers can include specialized groups such as            
  domestic violence shelters, Native American organizations, organizations            
  providing food or shelter to: AIDS patients, handicapped individuals, the elderly,  
  homeless veterans, non-wards of the State teenage runaways, and many other          
  groups with emergency food and shelter needs. As noted earlier, the decisions       
  on selections are made through the consensus of the Local Board as they have        
  assessed their community's most urgent needs. It is important that such agencies    
  use these funds to supplement, not replace, their current efforts. This program is  
  intended to supplement ongoing programs and allow them to extend and expand         
  upon their existing services.                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The program employs a Local Recipient Organization Certification Form. This         
  form certifies an applicant's status (i.e., that it is a nonprofit capable of       
  delivering eligible services) that it will abide by the program guidelines (both on 
  eligible spending and reporting requests), and comply with other fiscal and         
  program rules so stipulated. Grant awards will be determined in accordance          
  with OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-87 for State and local governments.              
  Awards made to Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Non-           
  Profit Organizations will be required to follow the requirements of OMB             
  Circular Nos. A-110 and A-21, and be audited under the standards of OMB             
  Circular No. A-133.                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  At the local level, following award notification, a Local Board is formed. That     
  board then advertises the availability of the funds to local nonprofit agencies and 
  governments. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.               
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                     
  application/program guidance.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications or plans are submitted to the National Board and reviewed by           
  National Board program.                                                             
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  Refer to program guidance for information on the appeal process. Those cases        
  that cannot be handled locally should be referred to the National Board giving      
  details on action that has been taken up to that point. Any allegations regarding   
  fraud or the misuse of funds should be referred directly to the FEMA Office of      
  Inspector General.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable. Each phase (fiscal year) is a new program.                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    


1616                                                                            11-08

  The National Board uses unemployment and poverty statistics as indicators of
  need. For Phase 26, fiscal year 2008, the following formula was used: (1)
  Jurisdictions, including balance of counties, with 13,000+ unemployed and a 3.5
  percent rate of unemployment. (2) Jurisdictions, including balance of counties,
  with 300 to 12,999 unemployed and a 5.5 percent rate of unemployment. (3)
  Jurisdictions, including balance of counties, with 300 or more unemployed and
  an 11 percent rate of poverty.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Local Boards are expected to monitor the expenditure of funds in their respective
  jurisdictions. It is for that reason that requests for second checks (all awards are
  divided into two payments) must be made by the Local Boards. Along with the
  request for the second payment, the National Board receives an interim report on
  eligible spending during that phase. A Final Report also must be filed by each
  LRO with its Local Board. The Local Board then compiles all the Final Reports
  within its jurisdiction and submits them (along with any requested
  documentation) to the National Board. Failure of an LRO to file a Final Report
  will result in its award being held in escrow the succeeding year.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Boards are required to remain in operation until all program and audit
  requirements of the National Board have been satisfied. Grant records shall be
  retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient submits its final
  expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or other action
  involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year period,
  the records must be retained until completion of the action and resolution of all
  issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year period,
  whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0707-0-1-605.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $151,470,000; FY 08 est $153,000,135; and FY 09 est
  $100,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  During the most recent phase for which final data is available (phase 24 or FY
  06), over 12,000 social service agencies (both nonprofit and governmental) in
  more than 2,500 jurisdictions received nearly $151,470 million. This resulted in
  the provision of more than 66,784,162 million additional meals and 4.1 million
  additional nights of shelter, payout of approximately 248,869 rent/mortgage and
  utility bills to keep people in their homes, as well as supplies and minimal
  repairs for shelters. Web training, called Webinars, was also conducted by
  program staff for local boards and agencies.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  EFS National Board Program, "Phase 25: Responsibilities and Requirements."
Regional or Local Office:
  See Catalog Appendix IV for list of addresses for FEMA Regional Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency
  (FEMA), 500 C Street, S.W., Room 619, Washington, DC 20472. Telephone:
  (800) 621-FEMA (3363).
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.568, Emergency Food Assistance Program (Administrative Costs); 14.231,
  Emergency Shelter Grants Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Some local providers have used EFS Program funds in the following ways: (1)
  A drop-in center, available for homeless individuals during daytime hours when
  shelters are closed, used EFS funds to begin a lunch program; (2) A family
  shelter used EFS funds to increase the quality of the diet available to mothers
  and children and added a morning meal; (3) A shelter used funds to purchase
  additional cots and beddings, and thus increase shelter capacity; (4) A food bank
  used EFS funds to increase the amount of food and the protein quality it
  distributed to its pantry system; and (5) A shelter organization used EFS funds to
