  make one-month mortgage and rent payments to prevent evictions which kept        
  families in their own homes and lightened the shelter population.                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                  
                                                                                   
97.025 NATIONAL URBAN SEARCH AND RESCUE (US&R)                                     
                                                                                   
RESPONSE SYSTEM                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; Defense Against               
  Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1966; National Defense Authorization Act      
  for FY 1997, as amended; Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency        
  Assistance Act, 42 U.S.C. 5121-5206; 44 CFR Part 208; Earthquake Hazards         
  Reduction Act of 1977, as amended, 42 U.S.C., 7701 et seq.                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  Develop, maintain, deploy, coordinate, and support National Urban Search and     
  Rescue resources on-scene to locate, provide initial medical treatment, and      
  extricate victims of incidents requiring specialized search and rescue operations
  while simultaneously enhancing the US&R response capabilities of State and       
  local governments.                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants.                                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  State and local emergency management agencies may jointly develop one or         
  more US&R Task Force(s), as defined in the National US&R Response System         
  Operation Manual. Use of cooperative agreement funding is restricted to          
  program management/administration,training, equipment acquisition, and           
  storage and maintenance of equipment, to meet task force position criteria, and  
  conduct and participate in meetings within the National US&R Response            
  System. Equipment acquisitions are limited to those included in FEMA's           
  approved equipment cache list, including equipment for                           
  management/administration and other items approved by the FEMA US&R              
  Program Office. Training requirements as included in the Operation Manual        
  and including Grants Management and Financial Training.                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  Only the 28 sponsoring jurisdictions who are currently designated by FEMA as     
  members of the National Urban Search and Rescue Response System are eligible     
  for operations and maintenance cooperative agreements.                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Only the 28 State and local government sponsoring organizations formally         
  accepted by FEMA for participation in the National US&R Response System.         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  State and/or local government applicants must verify that all personnel          
  recommended for a task force meet the personnel qualifications as listed in the  
  National US&R Response System Operation Manual. In addition, equipment           
  needs must be verified as being on the approved equipment cache list or as       
  approved by the Program Office. Grant awards/administration will be in           
  accordance with the following: The Grantee shall comply with all applicable      
  laws and regulations.                                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  All applicants will complete the equipment and personnel checklists contained    
  in the National US&R Response System Manual, as well as identifying required     
  training for potential task force members, on an annual basis. This program is   
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the yearly           
  application/program guidance.                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Applications and budget plans are reviewed by DHS Program Office and Grants      
  Management Office. Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be       
  negotiated with the successful applicant prior to the award being issued.        
Deadlines:                                                                         
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Refer to program guidance document.                                              
Appeals:                                                                           
  Appeals must be made in writing and submitted within thirty (30) days from the   
  date of disapproval. The appeal will be submitted through the appropriate        
  FEMA Regional Office, to the Director for the Response Directorate. Within       
  thirty days following the receipt of an appeal, the Response Director will       
  provide the applicant, in writing, a determination on the appeal.                
Renewals:

  Annual applications must be submitted.                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no statutory formula. This program has no matching              
  requirements.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management             


                                                                              11-08
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial reports and semi-annual
  performance reports. Semi-Annual "Performance Reports" must include the
  progress of each grant award and are due on January 30 and July 30. Financial
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: Jan. 31, April 30, July 31,
  and October 31. Closeout documents including final financial and performance
  reports are due 90 days after the expiration or termination of the grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0711-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $22,238,000; FY 08 $ 28,982,012; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  To continue to provide funding for equipment, training, and related activities for
  the 28 grantees comprising the National US&R Response System in order to
  assist them in achieving full operational readiness, as determined by FEMA.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Interim Federal Rule 44 CFR Part 208, guidelines outlined in the annual
  statement of work for task force preparedness cooperative agreements. In
  addition, the requirements for establishing a standardized US&R Task Force are
  contained in the National US&R Response System Sponsoring Organization
  Capability Criteria manual, as amended by FEMA.The Grantee shall comply
  with all applicable laws and regulations. In addition a non-exclusive list of
  regulations commonly applicable to DHS grants are listed below: Administrative
  Requirements OMB Circular A-102, State and Local Governments (10/07/94,
  amended 08/29/97) (44 CFR Part 13) OMB Circular A-110, Institutions of
  Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations (11/19/93,
  amended 09/30/99) (2 CFR Part 215) Cost Principles, 2 CFR Part 225, (OMB
  Circular A-87), State and Local Governments 2 CFR Part 205, (OMB Circular
  A-21), Educational Institutions, 2 CFR Part 230, (OMB Circular A-122),
  Nonprofit Organizations Audit Requirements. OMB Circular A-133, States,
  Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations (06/24/97, includes revisions
  published in the Federal Register 06/27/03).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Headquarters Office: Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency
  Management Agency (FEMA), C/O 245 Murray Lane Building #410,
  Washington, DC 20523; Telephone: (202) 786-9458.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Program Management to ensure day to day operations of the US&R taskforce.
  Acquisition of tools and equipment identified in the current US&R equipment
  cache list. Development and delivery of training needed to fulfill task force
  missions. Lease of or modifications to existing buildings (not to change the
  building existing footprint) cache storage space.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.026 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT INSTITUTE-
TRAINING ASSISTANCE
   (Student Stipend Reimbursement Program (SEP))
FEDERAL AGENCY:
                                                                                     1617
