  receive individual project grants not totaling more than $3,300,000 in a 5-year     
  period. Up to 10 percent of Project Grant allocations annually may be used for      
  Technical Assistance. The only applicants eligible for Technical Assistance         
  Grants are State agencies or departments responsible for administering FMA.         
  Eligible activities under this grant are: conducting community site visits;         
  reviewing draft applications or plans; participating in planning meetings;          
  providing planning workshops/materials; and, providing grants management            
  workshops/ materials.                                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible applicants Technical Assistance Grants are State agencies or               
  departments that are responsible for administering the FMA program. Eligible        
  applicants for Planning Grants are States and communities participating in the      
  NFIP. Suspended communities or communities on probation under the NFIP are          
  not eligible. Eligible applicants for Project Grants are States and communities     
  participating in the NFIP, and with a FEMA-approved Flood Mitigation Plan.          
  Suspended communities or communities on probation under the NFIP are not            
  eligible.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  States and communities.                                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Grant awards will be determined in accordance with OMB Circulars No. A-102          
  and No. A-87 for State and local governments. Awards made to Institutions of        
  Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Non-Profit Organizations will be              
  required to follow the requirements of OMB Circulars No. A-110 and No. A-21.        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Application Process for FMA Project Grants: States apply through grant              
  negotiation. State FMA point of contact reviews and prioritizes applications.       
  FEMA reviews and ensures projects meet environmental regulations and                
  minimum eligibility requirements. FEMA allocates the FMA grants for                 
  planning, technical assistance, and projects annually to each FEMA region for       
  distribution among States that have requested participation in the program. For     
  a State to receive funds, it should request participation in the FMA during its     
  annual grant negotiation with the FEMA Regional Office. This program is             
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal        
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or officials designated as the    
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the 
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected 
  the program for review.                                                             
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The State applies through the annual grant negotiation. The State point of          
  contact reviews, prioritizes, and selects applications from community for           
  funding planning and project grants; FEMA reviews and ensures that projects         
  meet environmental regulations and minimum eligibility requirements. Forms          
  Required: A State Flood Mitigation Plan, SF 424 Application for Federal             
  Assistance, Program Narrative, 20-20 Budget Information-Construction                
  Programs, 20-16(A)-(C) Assurances and Certifications, and SF-LLL Lobbying           
  Disclosure.                                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  State applies through grant negotiation, State reviews, prioritizes, and selects    
  applications from community for funding Planning and Project Grants. Director       
  allocates funds to the State, and the State distributes them to the community.      
Deadlines:                                                                            
  The FEMA Regional Director will notify States regarding the program schedule        
  at the beginning of each fiscal year.                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The FEMA Director allocates available funds for FMA each fiscal year in a           
  lump sum to each FEMA Region for distribution to the States and communities.        
  Under the current formula, each State and territory receives a base amount of       
  $10,000 for Planning, and $100,000 for Projects. The remaining funds are            
  distributed based on the number of NFIP policies, repetitive loss structures, and   
  other such criteria as the Director may determine in furtherance of the disaster    
  resistant community concept. FEMA may contribute up to 75 percent of the cost       
  of eligible activities. The remaining percent must be met by matching               
  requirements from State government or other nonfederal funding sources. Up to

  one-half of the nonfederal share may be met by in-kind contributions from third     
  parties. The remaining half of the nonfederal share must be met by State and

  local government expenditures and cash funds identified at the time of              
  application.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The average performance period for FMA grants is generally 2 years, but may be      
  extended once for planning grants and twice for project grants.                     
Reports:                                                                              
  Performance reports are due 30 days after the end of the second quarter (April      
  30) and 30 days after the end of the fourth quarter (October 30). The final         


1620                                                                            11-08

  performance report is due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant
  support if there is a change to the October financial report. Financial reports are
  due 30 days after the end of each quarter. Final financial and performance
  reports are due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant support.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grant records include financial and programmatic records, supporting
  documents, statistical records, and other records of recipient or subrecipient
  which are required to be maintained by 44 CFR Part 13.42, program regulations
  or the grant agreement. Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years
  from the day the recipient submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation,
  claim, negotiation, audit, or other action involving the records has been started
  before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records must be retained until
  completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until
  the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.
Account Identification:
  70-0701-0-1-453.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $31,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not available.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Program accomplishments are published in a Biennial Report to Congress as
  required under Section 554 of the National Flood Insurance Reform Act
  (NFIRA). This report is available from Ms. Margaret E. Lawless. Director,
  Mitigation Planning and Delivery Division, Federal Insurance and Mitigation
  Administration, Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), 500 C
  Street, SW., Washington, DC 20472. Telephone: (202) 646-4621.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of addresses of FEMA's Regional
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane Building #410,
  Washington, DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Program accomplishments, including examples of funded projects, are published
  in a Biennial Report to Congress as required under Section 554 of the National
  Flood Insurance Reform Act (NFIRA). This report is available from Ms.
  Margaret E. Lawless, Director, Mitigation Planning and Delivery Division,
  Federal Insurance and Mitigation Administration, Federal Emergency
  Management Agency (FEMA), 500 C Street, SW., Washington, DC 20472.
  Telephone: (202) 646-4621.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Project Grants: Minimum Project Eligibility Criteria: The extent to which
  proposals are cost effective, conform with applicable Federal and State
  regulations and executive orders, are technically feasible, conform with the
  Flood Mitigation Plan, are physically located in an eligible community, or
  benefit such a community directly. Planning Grants are selected based on
  whether proposals are for eligible activities such as: conducting local planning
  discussions; contracting for consulting technical services such as engineering
  and planning; surveying structures at risk; and assessing structures subject to
  repetitive flood loss. Technical Assistance Grants are selected based on whether
  proposals are for eligible activities such as: conducting community site visits;
  reviewing draft applications and plans; participating in planning meetings;
  providing planning workshops/materials; and, providing grants management
  workshops/materials.
97.030 COMMUNITY DISASTER LOANS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Section 417,
  42 U.S.C. 5184.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide loans subject to Congressional loan authority, to any local
  government that has suffered substantial loss of revenues in an area in which the
