  President designates a major disaster exists. The funds can only be used to          
  maintain existing functions of a municipal operating character and the local         
  government must demonstrate a need for financial assistance.                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Loans.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Loans are made only to local governments or other political subdivisions of the      
  State, and are based on need. The funds cannot be used to meet the non federal       
  share of any Federal program, finance capital improvements, or repair or restore     
  public facilities.                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Applicants must be in a designated major disaster area and must demonstrate          
  that they meet the specific conditions of FEMA Disaster Assistance Regulations       
  44 CFR Part 206, Subpart K, Community Disaster Loans. To be eligible the             
  applicant must demonstrate: 1) a substantial loss of revenues as a result of a       
  major disaster; 2) a need for financial assistance to perform its governmental       
  functions.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Local governments in a designated disaster area.                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  The loan application is developed from financial information contained in the        
  local government's published financial reports and current annual operating          
  budget. Loan awards will be determined in accordance with OMB Circulars No.          
  A-102 and No. A-87 for State and local governments. Awards made to                   
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Non-Profit Organizations       
  will be required to follow the requirements of OMB Circulars No. A-110 and           
  No. A-21.                                                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The State Governor makes a request for a Presidential declaration of a major         
  disaster through the FEMA Regional Director. This program is eligible for            
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."           
  An applicant should consult the office or officials designated as the single point   
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State         
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the    
  program for review.                                                                  
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Upon declaration of a major disaster, application for a Community Disaster           
  Loan is made through the Governor's Authorized Representative to the Regional        
  Director of FEMA in accordance with FEMA Disaster Assistance Regulations,            
  44 CFR 206.364. The Assistant Administrator of the Disaster Assistance               
  Directorate approves or disapproves the loan. The Designated Loan Officer will       
  execute a Promissory Note with the applicant. The promissory note must be co-        
  signed by the State, or if the State cannot legally co-sign the note, the local

  government must pledge collateral security.                                          
Award Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Funds are disbursed to the local government when requested in accordance with

                                                                                       
  the Schedule of Loan Increments in the Promissory Note. Funds awarded to             
  Institutions of Education, Hospitals and Other Non-Profit Organizations will         
  follow requirements of OMB Circulars No. A-110, No. A-21 and No. A-133.              
Deadlines:                                                                             
  The loan must be approved in the fiscal year of the disaster or the fiscal year      
  immediately following.                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 1 to 6 months.                                                                  
Appeals:

                                                                                       
  If a loan application is disapproved, in whole or in part, a revised application

                                                                                       
  may be resubmitted by the local government within 60 days of the date of the         
  disapproval.                                                                         
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                       
  The amount of the loan is based on the demonstrated need. The interest rate is

                                                                                       
  the U.S. Treasury rate for 5-year maturities on the date the Promissory Note is

                                                                                       
  executed adjusted to the nearest 1/8th. When applicable, if an applicant can

                                                                                       
  demonstrate unusual circumstances involving financial hardship, the Assistant

                                                                                       
  Administrator of the Disaster Assistance Directorate may approve a rate equal to

                                                                                       
  the five 5-year maturity rate plus 1 per centum, adjusted to the nearest 1/8th, and

                                                                                       
  further reduced by one-half. The term of the loan is usually 5 years, but may be

                                                                                       
  extended. Interest accrues on the funds as they are disbursed. When applicable,

                                                                                       
  the Assistant Administrator of the Disaster Assistance Directorate may cancel        
  repayment of all or part of the loan if the revenues of the applicant in the 3 fiscal
  years following the fiscal year of the disaster are insufficient to meet the         
  operating budget because of disaster related revenue losses and un-reimbursed        
  disaster related operating expenses.                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The length of the loan is generally 5 years, but may be extended. Funds are          
  disbursed per the Schedule of Payments in the Promissory Note.                       
Reports:                                                                               
  The applicant must demonstrate a financial need prior to any incremental             
  disbursement by submitting a copy of its most recent financial report as well as     


                                                                                  11-08
  data on anticipated and actual revenues. The applicant annually must submit
  copies of its annual financial reports.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Annual Operating Budgets including revenue and expense and balance sheets
  must be retained for the duration of the loan. Additional record requirements are
  detailed in the Federal Disaster Assistance Regulations, 44 CFR 206, Subpart K.
Account Identification:
  70-0703-0-1-453.
Obligations:
  (Loans) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est $4,000,400; and FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Federal Disaster Assistance Regulations, 44 CFR Part 206, Subpart K.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of addresses for FEMA's Regional
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  U.S. Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane, Washington, DC
  20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
97.031 CORA BROWN FUND
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Public Law
  93-288, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To use funds made possible by a bequest of funds from the late Cora C. Brown
  of Kansas City, Missouri, who left a portion of her estate to the United States for
  the purpose of helping victims of natural disasters not caused by or attributed to
  war.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To provide for disaster-related needs that have not been, or will not be met by
  government agencies or any other organizations which have programs to address
  such needs; however, the fund is not intended to replace or supersede these
  programs. The fund may not be used in a way that is inconsistent with other
  federally mandated disaster assistance or insurance programs. Money from the
  fund will not duplicate assistance for which a person is eligible from other
  sources.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Individuals, families, and groups in need of (1) Disaster-related home repair and
  rebuilding; (2) disaster-related unmet needs; and (3) other services which
  alleviate human suffering and promote the well being of disaster victims.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals, families, and groups in need.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Recommendation from Regional Director or his/her designee.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Disaster victims do not apply for assistance from the fund, instead, they are
  identified and recommended by the Regional Director or his/her representatives,
  with assistance from other governmental agencies and voluntary disaster
  agencies.
Award Procedure:
                                                                                  1621
