  None.                                                                                  
Deadlines:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  None.                                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                                 
  None.                                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  None.                                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  None.

                                                                                         
Reports:

                                                                                         
  None.

                                                                                         
Audits:

                                                                                         
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,

                                                                                         
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                         
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                         
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal

                                                                                         
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.

                                                                                         
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are

                                                                                         
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular

                                                                                         
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through

                                                                                         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the

                                                                                         
  grantees fiscal year.

                                                                                         
Records:

                                                                                         
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient

                                                                                         
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or

                                                                                         
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-

                                                                                         
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and

                                                                                         
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year

                                                                                         
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress

                                                                                         
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support

                                                                                         
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.

                                                                                         
Account Identification:

                                                                                         
  70-8244-0-7-453.

                                                                                         
Obligations:

  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not                 
  available.                                                                             
                                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  None.                                                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  None.                                                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  Federal Disaster Assistance Regulations, 44 CFR 206.181; DOM Chapter 17;               
  Cora Brown Fund Program.                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of addresses for FEMA's Regional          
  Offices.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington,             
  DC 20528.                                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.dhs.gov.                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
97.032 CRISIS COUNSELING                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Section 416,          
  Public Law 93-288, as amended; 42 U.S.C. 5182, Crisis Counseling Assistance            
  and Training Act, Public Law 100-707.                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To provide immediate crisis counseling services, when required, to victims of a        
  major Federally-declared disaster for the purpose of addressing mental health          
  problems caused or aggravated by a major disaster or its aftermath. Assistance         
  is short-term in nature and provided at no cost to the disaster victims.               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  The Crisis Counseling Assistance and Training Program (CCP) is designed to             
  provide supplemental funding to States for technical assistance and training, as       
  well as, short-term crisis counseling services to people affected by the disaster.     


1622                                                                               11-08

  CCP services involve the counseling goals of assisting disaster survivors in
  understanding their current situations and reactions, mitigating additional stress,
  assisting survivors in reviewing their options, promoting the use or development
  of coping strategies, providing emotional support and encouraging linkages with
  other individuals and agencies who may help survivors recover to their pre-
  disaster level of functioning. The Program is divided into an Immediate
  Services Program and a Regular Services Program. The Immediate Services
  Program enables the State or local agency to respond to the immediate crisis
  counseling needs of people affected by the disaster. The Regular Services
  Program grant provides up to 9 months of crisis counseling, outreach,
  consultation and education services to people affected by a disaster. Funding for
  this program is separate from the Immediate Services Program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States are eligible for grants. If the Governor determines, during an assessment
  of the need for crisis counseling services, that because of unusual circumstances
  or serious conditions within the State or local mental health network, the State
  cannot carry out the crisis counseling program, he/she may identify a public or
  private mental health agency or organization to carry out the program or request
  the Department of Homeland Security's Federal Emergency Management
  Agency (FEMA) Regional Director to identify, with assistance of the Secretary
  of the Department of Health and Human Services (DHHS), such an agency or
  organization.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  In order to be eligible for services under this program, an individual must be a
  resident of the designated disaster area or must have been in the designated area
  at the time the disaster occurred.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. Grant awards will be determined in accordance with
  OMB Circulars No. A-102 and No. A-87 for State and local governments.
  Awards made to Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Nonprofit
  Organizations will be required to follow the requirements of OMB Circulars No.
  A-110 and No. A-21.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Consultation and assistance are available from FEMA and the Department of
  Health and Human Service's Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services
  Administration (SAMHSA). This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Immediate Services Crisis Counseling Program - Applications s are reviewed by
  FEMA program staff in consultation with SAMHSA. Grant award is provided
  by FEMA to the State Emergency Management Agency. Regular Services Crisis
  Counseling Program Applications are reviewed by FEMA with formal
  recommendation from SAMHSA. Grant funds are provided by FEMA to
  SAMHSA for award to the State's mental health agency.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  Immediate Services Crisis Counseling Program - The State may appeal the
  Regional Director's decision in writing within 60 days of the date of notification
  of the application decision. The State may further appeal the Regional Director's
  decision to the Assistant Associate Director within 60 days of the date of the
  Regional Director's notification of the application decision. Regular Services
  Crisis Counseling Program - The State may appeal FEMA's decision in writing
  within 60 days of the date of notification of the decision.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days after the expiration or
  termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
