  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Upon declaration of a major disaster declaration designated for DUA, applicants      
  may make application with their local State Workforce Agency (SWA).                  
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Funds are allocated from the President's Disaster Relief Fund and FEMA               
  transfers funding to DOL for use in designated major disaster areas declared for     
  DUA.                                                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Generally, applications for DUA must be filed within 30 days after the date of       
  the SWA announcement regarding availability of DUA. When applicants have             
  good cause, they may file claims after the 30-day deadline. However, no initial      
  application will be considered if filed after the 26th week following the            
  declaration date.                                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Normally, within 1 to 2 weeks.                                                       
Appeals:                                                                               
  Appeals must be filed in accordance with DOL Regulation 20 CFR Part 625.             
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  DUA may be paid from the period beginning with the first week (as defined in         
  State law) following the date the major disaster began, and extending up             
  through, but no longer than, the 26th week following the Presidential major          
  disaster declaration date.                                                           
Reports:                                                                               
  Progress status reports are required.                                                
Audits:                                                                                
  Internal program audits are conducted.                                               
Records:

                                                                                       
  Record retention in accordance with DOL Regulation 20 CFR Part 625.

                                                                                       
Account Identification:

                                                                                       
  70-0702-0-1-453.

Obligations:                                                                           
  (Direct Payments/Services) FY 07 $8,398,718; FY 08 est $12,619,457; and FY           
  09 est not available.                                                                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Not available.                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Not available.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  FEMA Regulations at 44 CFR 206.8, 44 CFR 206.141, and DOL Regulations at             
  20 CFR Part 625.                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of addresses for FEMA's Regional        
  Offices.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency                 
  (FEMA), c/o 245 Murray Lane Building #410, Washington, DC 20523.                     
  Telephone: (800) 621-FEMA (3363).                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.fema.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
97.036 DISASTER GRANTS - PUBLIC ASSISTANCE                                             
(PRESIDENTIALLY DECLARED DISASTERS)                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Public Law          
  93-288, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 5121-5206.                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To assist State and local governments in recovering from the devastating effects     
  of disasters by providing assistance for debris removal, emergency protective        
  measures and the repair, restoration, reconstruction or replacement of public        
  facilities or infrastructure damaged or destroyed.                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Restricted to Presidential-declared disasters or emergencies, such as an             
  earthquake, hurricane, tornado, or wildfire. Program activates only after            
  issuance of a presidential declaration. Public Assistance is awarded in the form     


1624                                                                             11-08

  of cost-shared grants to States, local governments, other political subdivisions
  such as special districts, federally recognized Indian tribal governments and
  Alaska Native villages or organizations, and certain eligible Private Non-Profit
  organizations. A State is defined as any State of the United States, the District of
  Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the
  Northern Marianna Islands, the Marshall Islands and Micronesia. Following a
  Presidential declaration, grants may be made for: removal of wreckage and
  debris from private and public lands; performance of emergency protective
  measures; emergency transportation assistance; emergency communications; and
  permanent restoration of eligible facilities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local governments, other political subdivisions such as a special
  districts, federally recognized Indian tribal governments, Alaska Native villages
  or organizations, but not Alaska Native Corporations, and certain Private Non-
  Profit organizations in designated emergency or major disaster areas.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible work must be required as a result of the disasters; be located in a
  designated emergency or major disaster area; and be the legal responsibility of
  the applicant.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with FEMA Disaster Assistance
  Regulations, 44 CFR Part 206 and Part 13, and the FEMA Schedule of
  Equipment Rates. Grant awards will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circulars No. A-102 and No. A-87 for States, local governments and Indian
  Tribes. Awards made to Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and other
  Non-Profit Organizations will be required to follow the requirements of OMB
  Circulars No. A-110 and No. A-21.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The State Governor makes a request for a Presidential declaration of an
  emergency or a major disaster through the FEMA Regional Director. Requests
  for assistance must be made by the Governor in accordance with FEMA Disaster
  Assistance Regulations, 44 CFR 206.36, except as provided in Part 206.35(d)
  for emergency declarations involving primarily Federal responsibility. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance.
Application Procedure:
  A Presidential Disaster or Emergency Declaration must be issued, which is
  then followed by an application for Public Assistance through the Governor's
  Authorized Representative to the Regional Director of FEMA.
Award Procedure:
  Funds are allocated from the President's Disaster Relief Fund for use in a
  designated emergency or major disaster area. The FEMA Regional Director
  approves grants from this allocation on the basis of project applications for
  eligible applicants. States are responsible for distributing funds to applicants.
  As a condition of receiving assistance under the Stafford Act, applicants are
  encouraged to take mitigation measures to reduce future losses from natural
  hazards.
Deadlines:
  A Request for Assistance must be submitted by the applicant at the Applicants'
  Briefing or within 30 days of designation of an emergency declaration or major
  disaster declaration for the Public Assistance Program.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 1 day to 6 weeks.
Appeals:
  Any determination made under the Public Assistance Program may be appealed.
  All appeals must be made through the State and the appropriate FEMA Regional
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. The appeal deadlines are: 60 days
  from receipt of notification of the action being appealed.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of the grant is not less than 75 percent with the State and local
  governments responsible for the remainder.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The length of the assistance period varies depending on the type of work or
  service. Reimbursement for small projects under $60,900 is made based on the
  Federal estimate of costs. For projects over the $60,900, reimbursement of
  actual eligible costs is made as the costs are incurred. The $60,900 limit is
  adjusted annually to reflect the Consumer Price Index. When purchase of
  insurance is required, the applicant is obliged to maintain the policy for the
  economic and useful life of the repairs or of the insured property, whichever is
  the lesser. Also, applicants must comply with Floodplain Management, Hazard
  Mitigation, Environmental, and Historic Preservation considerations.
Reports:
  Progress status reports are required quarterly.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities
