  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have 
  an audit made for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000  
  a year in Federal awards is exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                           
Records:                                                                           
  Expenditure records and related documents must be retained for 3 years from the  
  date the applicant's project application is closed.                              
Account Identification:                                                            
  70-0702-0-1-453.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 4,959,113,722; FY 08 est $3,124,128,957; and FY 09 est not        
  available.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  None.                                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  In fiscal year 2007, 63 disasters and 13 emergencies were declared.              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  Federal Disaster Assistance Regulations, 44 CFR Part 205 for disasters and       
  emergencies declared prior to November 23, 1988; Federal Disaster Assistance     
  Regulations, 44 CFR Part 206 for disasters declared on or after November         
  23,1988; "Public Assistance Guide," FEMA 322 (formerly FEMA 286); "Public        
  Assistance Policy Digest," FEMA 321; "Public Assistance Applicant                
  Handbook," FEMA 323. See Public Assistance web page at                           
  http://www.fema.gov/government/grant/pa/index.shtm.                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of addresses for FEMA's Regional    
  Offices.                                                                         
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington,        
  DC 20528.                                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.fema.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  97.034, Disaster Unemployment Assistance; 83.535, Mitigation Assistance;         
  83.505, State Disaster Preparedness Grants; 10.054, Emergency Conservation       
  Program; 12.102, Emergency Rehabilitation of Flood Control Works or              
  Federally Authorized Coastal Protection Works; 12.103, Emergency Operations      
  Flood Response and Post Flood Response.                                          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  None.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  None.                                                                            
                                                                                   
97.039 HAZARD MITIGATION GRANT                                                     
                                                                                   
   (HMGP)                                                                          
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Section 404,    
  42 U.S.C. 5170c.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To provide States and local governments financial assistance to implement        
  measures that will permanently reduce or eliminate future damages and losses     
  from natural hazards through safer building practices and improving existing     
  structures and supporting infrastructure.                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants.                                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  Assistance can be used for the acquisition of real property, relocation,

                                                                                   
  demolition of structures, seismic rehabilitation or retrofitting of existing     
  structures; strengthening of existing structures, initial implementation of      
  vegetation management programs, initial training of architects, engineers,       
  building officials, and other professionals to facilitate the implementation of  
  newly adopted State or local mitigation standards and codes; elevation of        
  residential structures; elevation or dry flood- proofing of non-residential      
  structures in accordance with 44 CFR 60.3, and other activities that bring a     
  structure into compliance with the floodplain management requirements at 44      
  CFR 60.3, et al.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  State agencies, local governments, public entities, private nonprofit            
  organizations as defined in 44 CFR Section 206.433, Native American Tribes or    
  authorized tribal organizations, and Alaskan Native villages or organizations,   
  but not Alaskan native corporations with ownership vested in private             
  individuals. States may elect to become Managing States. Managing States are     
  delegated more authority in managing the HMGP. In order to be selected as a      
  Managing State, the State must demonstrate the ability to manage the grant       
  program, must have in effect an approved Enhanced mitigation plan and have a     
  demonstrated commitment to mitigation activities.                                


                                                                              11-08
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States and communities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Administrative and State, Tribal and Local Multihazard Mitigation Plans
  (Standard or Enhanced) must be Approved and reviewed by FEMA before
  funding can be awarded under the Hazard Mitigation Grant Program.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Rather than require applicants to submit a separate preapplication in order for
  FEMA and the State to identify the need for assistance, FEMA will employ the
  administrative and Mitigation plans in this manner. When States submit plans
  for review and indicate their intention to apply for assistance to implement one
  or more projects described in it, FEMA will use the plan to identify a need for
  funding assistance, and to discourage applications that are unlikely to be funded.
   This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  An eligible applicant, subgrantee, or State may appeal any determination
  previously made related to an application for or the provision of Federal
  assistance according to procedures set forth in Section 206.440.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  FEMA can fund up to 75 percent of the eligible costs of each project. The State
  or project applicant must provide a 25 percent match. The 25 percent nonfederal
  share can be a combination of cash, in-kind services, or materials. The amount
  of funding for the Program is based on 15 percent of all other disaster grants.
  States that meet planning requirements to be published as a result of the Disaster
  Mitigation Act of 2000, may receive an increased percentage (20 percent of all
  other disaster grants) of HMGP funds if, at the time of the declaration of a major
  disaster they have in effect an approved Enhanced State Mitigation Plan.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
  FEMA is required to track the use of real property acquired with grant funds in
  order to ensure that the property is maintained for open space in perpetuity. Sub-
  grantees and State will need to retain real estate transaction and property
  tracking records indefinitely.
Account Identification:
  70-0700-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
                                                                                     1625
