PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In prior fiscal years the program has funded over $1.1 billion in mitigation       
  projects.                                                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  44 CFR Subpart N Hazard Mitigation Grant Program Sections 206.430-206.440;         
  Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Public Law        
  93-288, as amended; Hazard Mitigation Grant Program Desk Reference FEMA            
  345 October 1999, Hazard Mitigation Grant Program, L-169, February 1996.           
  Property acquisition handbook, FEMA-317.                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of FEMA's Regional Offices.           
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane Bldg. #410, Washington,           
  DC 20528.                                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.dhs.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  97.029, Flood Mitigation Assistance.                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  (1) Acquisition and relocation of structures from hazard-prone areas; (2)          
  strengthening structures against flood, high winds, wildfire, or other hazards to  
  protect structures from future damages; (3) elevating structures; (4) developing   
  State or local standards to protect new and substantially improved structures      
  from disaster damage; (5) Drainage improvement projects; and (6) vegetation        
  management projects.                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals. 
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
97.040 CHEMICAL STOCKPILE EMERGENCY

                                                                                     
PREPAREDNESS PROGRAM                                                                 
   (CSEPP)                                                                           
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Department of Defense Authorization Act of 1986, Title 14, Part B, Section         
  1412, Public Law 99-145, 50 U.S.C. 1521.                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To enhance emergency preparedness capabilities of the States, local, and tribal    
  communities at each of the eight chemical agent stockpile storage facilities. The  
  purpose of the program is to assist States and local communities in efforts to     
  improve their capacity to plan for and respond to accidents associated with the    
  storage and ultimate disposal of chemical warfare materials.                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  In keeping with the intent of the Congressional appropriations, CSEPP funds are    
  to be utilized for effective emergency management capabilities in the 10 affected  
  States, local, and tribal communities surrounding the eight Army stockpile         
  locations. CSEPP funds may not be used as a substitute for other mandated,         
  unfunded programs required for existing needs or by other laws. CSEPP funds        
  may not be used to supplant other forms of emergency management funding.           
  CSEPP funds may not be commingled with other, non-CSEPP funds.                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Applications are accepted from the States of Alabama, Arkansas, Colorado,          
  Illinois, Indiana, Kentucky, Oregon, Utah, Washington, and the Confederated        
  Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation. The eligible States house the U.S.      
  Army stockpiles unitary chemical warfare agent as bulk chemicals and               
  munitions. Local governments are eligible to participate as subgrantees under      
  their State's application.                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State, local and tribal governments, and general public.                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  The budget worksheets used for CSEPP must be included in the official              
  application package. These worksheets will be used for budget analysis by          
  FEMA.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  A preapplication meeting between the FEMA Regional Offices and their               
  respective States usually occurs to discuss the application and draft work plan.   
  Technical assistance is available for application preparation from the FEMA        
  Regional Office. This program is not subject to the provisions of E.O. 12372.      
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                    
  application/program guidance.                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program staff. Any issues or

  concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the successful           
  applicant prior to the award being issued.

Deadlines:                                                                           




1626                                                                           11-08

  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  Appeals may be submitted in writing by the authorized State official to the
  FEMA Regional Director.
Renewals:
  A new application is required for each Federal fiscal year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0711-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $54,886,788; FY 08 est $88,155,897; FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In preceding fiscal years initiatives or projects such as: installation of
  operational siren systems, completion of demographic surveys of immediate
  response zones, improving emergency operating centers, procurement of
  dedicated radio and telephone systems, development of training courses which
  resulted in training of over 15,000 people, development of residential and
  business shelter-in-place guides, construction of over 30 collective protection
  projects, as well as conducting enhanced exercises and expanded public
  education/public affairs outreach programs, have occurred.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  44 CFR 13 and 14; Chemical Stockpile Emergency Preparedness Program
  Planning Guidance and CSEPP Policy Papers. All available, relevant guidance
  is routinely provided to all eligible State participants. State and local
  organizations desiring information about this program should contact their State
  Emergency Management Agencies or Departments.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for FEMA Regional Offices. State and local
  government officials and the public are encouraged to contact their State and
  Local Emergency Management Agencies or Departments.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Drive, Bldg. #410., Washington,
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.020, Hazardous Materials Training Program; 83.534, Emergency
  Management_State and Local Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.041 NATIONAL DAM SAFETY PROGRAM
   (Dam Safety State Assistance Program)
