  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.   
                                                                                       
97.042 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE                                                
                                                                                       
GRANTS                                                                                 
   (EMPG)                                                                              
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  FEDERAL AGENCY: DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  U.S. Troop Readiness, Veteran's Care Katrina Recovery and Iraq Accountability        
  Appropriation Act, 2007 (P.L. 110-28)and appropriated by the Fiscal Year 2008        
  (FY 2008) Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act (P.L. 110-              
  161).                                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To provide resources to assist State and local governments to sustain and            
  enhance all-hazards emergency management capabilities. All hazards approach          
  to emergency response, including the development of a comprehensive program,         
  planning, training, exercises, sets the stage for an effective and consistent        
  response to any threatened or actual disaster or emergency, regardless of the        
  cause. State have the opportunity to use EMPG funds to further strengthen their      
  ability to support emergency management activities while simultaneously              
  addressing issues of national concern as identified in the National Priorities of    
  National Preparedness Guidelines.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Formula Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Each state shall obligate 100% of the total grant program amount to the              
  designated state-level EMA. For more detailed guidance on the EMPG grant             
  program please refer to the current Fiscal Year solicitation guidance.               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  States, as defined in the Homeland Security Act of 2002, refer to means "any         
  State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of            
  Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of           
  the Northern Mariana Islands, and any possession of the United States." The          
  State Administration Agency (SAA) is the only agency eligible to apply for           
  EMPG funds. Additionally, the Federated States of Micronesia and the                 
  Republic of the Marshall Islands are eligible to receive EMPG funding.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Funding under this program is ultimately used by emergency management                
  organizations and programs of States, the District of Columbia, territories and      
  possessions of the Unites States, local, and Indian Tribal governments.              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Grantees must maintain and expand any necessary capabilities to sustain an           
  effective emergency management program. These capabilities must be able to           
  address all-hazards emergencies. To help assess these capabilities, all EMPG         
  award recipients submit a narrative as a part of the application. Additionally, all  
  EMPG award recipients are required to submit a budget and budget narrative.          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review. Technical assistance is available for     
  application preparation from the FEMA Regional Offices.                              
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                      
  application/program guidance.

Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.

                                                                                       
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the

  successful applicant prior to award being issued.

                                                                                       
Deadlines:

                                                                                       
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.

                                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                       
  Refer to program guidance document.

Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  A new application is required for each Federal fiscal year.                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Pursuant to the Compact of Free Association, $50,000 each may be available for       
  the Federated States of Micronesia and the Republic of the Marshall Islands.         
  The EMPG program has a 50% federal and 50% state cost-share cash or in-kind          
  match requirement.                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management Act for         
  payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                                        




1628                                                                             11-08

Reports:
  Categorical Assistance Reports (CAPR) and Biannual Strategy Implementation
  Reports (BSIR) are due within 30 days after the end of the reporting periods,
  which are June 30 and December 31, for the life of the award. Grantees are also
  required to submit quarterly financial reports. These reports are due 30 days
  after the end of each quarter: Jan. 30, April 30, July 30 and Oct. 30. Final
  financial, CAPR and BSIR reports are due 90 days after the expiration or
  termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within fiscal year)
  will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit,
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0519-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $244,000,000 (includes $194 million for FY-2007, as well as $50 million
  in FY 2007 Supplemental funds; FY 08 est $291,450,000; and FY 09 est
  $200,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  All States and eligible Territories have received EMPGs in fiscal year 2002.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  For more requirements and guidance, please refer to the current year EMPG
  program.
Regional or Local Office:
  The G&T Centralized Scheduling and Information Desk (CSID); Telephone: 1
  (800)368-6498 or askcsid@dhs.gov. CSID hours of operation are from 8:00
  a.m.7:00 p.m. (EST), Monday - Friday.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane, Bldg. #410, Washington,
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.008, Urban Areas Security Initiative; 97.053, Citizen Corps; 97.071,
  Metropolitan Medical Response System; 97.073, State Homeland Security
  Program (SHSP); 97.074, Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program
  (LETPP); 97.067 Homeland Security Grant Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.043 STATE FIRE TRAINING SYSTEMS GRANTS
   (National Fire Academy Training Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; U.S.A. Patriot Act of
  2001, Public Law 107-56; Federal Emergency Management Agency, Executive
  Order 12127; The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, Public Law
  93-498, Section 21 (a and b).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance to State Fire Training Systems for the delivery of
  a variety of National Fire Academy (NFA) courses/programs, administrative
  costs, and electronic student feedback.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds are to be used within each State to deliver NFA training
  courses/programs and for marketing, administrative costs and electronic
