  feedback of student data. Each State shall spend at least $28,000 ($25,000 in         
  FY 02) in costs relating directly to the delivery of course materials. Computer

  purchases are restricted.                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:

  Representatives from the 50 State Fire Training Systems.                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Specialized Group; fire and emergency response personnel.                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  All beneficiaries will be required to submit a 75-5 Application Form for all 6-       
  day and 10-day courses, and a 75-5A Application Form for all 2-day courses.           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB Circular              
  A-102.                                                                                
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Application packages will be sent to each of the 50 State Fire Training Systems.      
  Grantees must submit workplans at the time of application. Workplans are              
  assessed based based on eligible categories of NFA courses and must include           
  estimated number of students to be trained and proposed dates of training.            
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  One grant will be issued to each of the 50 State Fire Training Systems after the      
  program office approves each State's work plan.                                       
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                   
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  None.                                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  None.                                                                                 
Reports:                                                                                
  Recipient organizations must provide to the NFA, quarterly project reports on all     
  activities associated with this grant. Reports must be submitted as described in      
  the grant articles.                                                                   
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,            
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"            
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal      
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.         
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are       
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular     
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through        
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the         
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                 
Records:                                                                                
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient    
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-   
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and          
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year  
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress      
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support     
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.    
Account Identification:                                                                 
  70-0564-0-1-800.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,175,940; FY 08 est $1,200,000; and FY 09 est not available.         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Refer to program guidance.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  Fifty individual grants were issued.                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  FEMA regional offices.                                                                
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                        
  Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency,

                                                                                        
  245 Murray Lane Bldg. #410, Washington, DC 20523.

                                                                                        
Web Site Address:

                                                                                        
  http://www.fema.gov.

                                                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                        
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.

                                                                                        


                                                                                   11-08
97.044 ASSISTANCE TO FIREFIGHTERS GRANT
   (Fire Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, 15 U.S.C. 2229 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance directly to fire departments and nonaffiliated
  EMS organizations to enhance their capabilities with respect to fire and fire-
  related hazards. To help fire departments and nonaffiliated EMS organizations
  meet their firefighting and emergency response needs. To support organizations
  that lack the tools and resources necessary to more effectively protect the health
  and safety of the public and their emergency response personnel with respect to
  fire and all other hazards.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Firefighting Operations and Firefighter Safety, Eligible Uses: Training, Wellness
  and Fitness, Firefighting Equipment, Personal Protective Equipment,
  Modifications to Firefighting Facilities for Firefighter Safety, Other Equipment
  and Supplies; Restrictions: One-year Funds, Funding Restrictions and/or Limits
  on Certain Equipment, Personnel, Construction, Vehicles. Protecting the Public
  from Fire and Fire Related Hazards, Eligible Uses: Public Awareness, Public
  Education, Inspector Certifications, Building Code Development and
  Enforcement, Arson Prevention and Detection, Emergency Medical Services,
  Emergency Medical Vehicles, Training, Equipment/Props/Supplies,
  Transportation, Contracts/Consultants, Program Personnel; Restrictions: One-
  year Funds, Funding Limits on Certain Equipment, Construction. Firefighting
  Vehicles, Eligible Uses: Pumpers/Engines, Tankers/Tenders, Brush
  Trucks/Attack Pumpers, Rescue, Quints, Aerial Apparatus, Hazardous Material,
  Ambulance/Transport, Communications/Command, Foam Units, Boats,
  Equipment for the Vehicle; Restrictions: Aircraft, Hazardous Material,
  Construction, Personnel, 1-year Funding, Funding Limits on Certain Equipment.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants for AFG are limited to fire departments and nonaffiliated
  EMS organizations. Fire departments or nonaffiliated EMS organizations
  operating in any of the 50 States plus the District of Columbia, the
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
  American Samoa, and Puerto Rico are eligible for funding. A "fire department"
  is defined as an agency or organization that has a formally recognized
  arrangement with a State, territory, local, or tribal authority (city, county, parish,
  fire district, township, town, or other governing body) to provide fire
  suppression to a population within a fixed geographical area on a first-due basis.
  A "nonaffiliated EMS organization" is defined as a public or private nonprofit
  emergency medical services organization that provides direct emergency medical
  services, including medical transport, to a specific geographic area on a first-due
  basis but is not affiliated with a hospital and does not serve a geographic area
  where emergency medical services are adequately provided by a fire department.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The ultimate beneficiaries of this program are the local or tribal communities
  serviced by the fire department including, but not limited to, local businesses,
  homeowners and property owners. Additionally, children under 16 years-of-age,
  seniors, and firefighters would be the beneficiaries since these groups are the
  targeted "risk groups" for the fire prevention program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each applicant must certify: 1) that they are an eligible applicant, i.e., a fire
  department, as defined above; 2) as to the characteristics of their community,
  i.e., Urban, Suburban, or Rural; 3) to the population size of the community
  served; and, 4) to the type of department, i.e., volunteer/combination or career.
Preapplication Coordination:
  There is no preapplication form required under this grant program. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  Applicants that were denied grants can request a reconsideration of the decision.
  Such a request may be successful if it is determined that the rating criteria were
  not appropriately applied, or there was a flaw in the competitive process that
  unfairly disadvantaged the applicant, or there was human error in the processing
                                                                                     1629
