  of the grant application. Requests for reconsideration must be submitted in            
  writing within 30 days of the date of the notification of denial.                      
Renewals:                                                                                
  Grant period is 12 months for this program. In the event that the grantees are         
  unable to fulfill their grant obligations within the 12-month grant period, they       
  may request an extension of the performance period. Such requests will be              
  considered and approved based on the written justification.                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  This program has no statutory formula. Applicants who protect a population of          
  over 50,000 are required to provide a nonfederal cost-share of not less than 20        
  percent of the total award. Applicants who protect a population between 20,000         
  and 50,000 are required to provide a nonfederal cost-share of not less than 10         
  percent of the total award. Applicants who protect a population of less than           
  20,000 are required to provide a nonfederal cost-share of not less than 5 percent

  of the total award. This program also has a Maintenance of Effort requirement

                                                                                         
  intended to ensure that the Federal funds are used to supplement, not supplant,

  existing resources.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                   
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                      
Reports:                                                                                 
  Grantees are required to submit semi-annual financial and performance reports.         
  The "Progress Reports" must include a narrative statement that details the             
  progress of each award. Reports are due 30 days after the end of the sixth month       
  of the performance period. Final financial and performance reports are due 90          
  days after the expiration or termination of grant award.                               
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and           
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year   
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support      
                                                                                         
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.

                                                                                         
Account Identification:

                                                                                         
  70-0561-0-1-999.

Obligations:                                                                             
  (Grants) FY 07 $547,000,000; FY 08 $560,000,000; and FY 09 est.                        
  $300,000,000.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  Refer to program guidance.                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  Since 2001, the grant program has awarded over 43,000 grants totaling over             
  $3.8 billion.                                                                          
                                                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                         
  The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, 15 U.S.C. 2229 et seq. In

                                                                                         
  addition, the program guidance, the FAQs, an applicant tutorial, and other

                                                                                         
  program information can be found on the program's website at

                                                                                         
  www.firegrantsupport.com.                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  The Assistance to Firefighters Grants are administered from the FEMA

                                                                                         
  Headquarters Office. FEMA also has 10 regional offices which house Fire

                                                                                         
  Program Specialists who may be contacted for information on the program.               
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Department of Homeland Security, Preparedness Directorate 245 Murray Lane,

                                                                                         
  Bldg. #410, Washington, DC 20528.                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.fema.gov.

                                                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                         
  15.031, Indian Community Fire Protection; 15.228, National Fire Plan -

                                                                                         
  Wildland Urban Interface Community Fire Assistance; 97.018, National Fire

                                                                                         
  Academy Training Assistance; 83.542, Fire Suppression Assistance; 97.038,

                                                                                         
  First Responder Counter-Terrorism Training Assistance; 97.043, State Fire

                                                                                         
  Training Systems Grants.

                                                                                         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                         
  Training: A fire department where a high percentage of firefighting staff needs

                                                                                         
  basic firefighting training. Wellness and Fitness: A fire department that wants to

                                                                                         
  establish a wellness and fitness program that offers an entry-level physical and a

                                                                                         
1630                                                                               11-08

  job-related immunization program. Firefighting Vehicle: A fire department that
  has few or no vehicles of the type for which they are applying and whose
  existing fleet is old with high mileage and/or high volume of calls. Firefighting
  Equipment: A fire department that needs basic firefighting equipment to satisfy
  a statutory requirement but has never been able to purchase such equipment.
  Personal Protective Equipment: A fire department where a high percentage of
  firefighting staff has never had personal protective equipment and wants to
  purchase enough equipment to protect all of the firefighting staff. Fire
  Prevention Programs: A fire department that wants to establish a public
  education program that focuses on children under 16 years of age, seniors,
  and/or firefighters, in a community that has no such program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.045 COOPERATING TECHNICAL PARTNERS
   (CTP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968, National Flood Insurance Act of
  1968, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4101; Housing and Urban Development Act of
  1969; Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973, as amended; National Flood
  Insurance Reform Act of 1994.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase local involvement in, and ownership of, the development and
  maintenance of flood hazard maps produced for the National Flood Insurance
  Program (NFIP).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The funds are authorized to supplement, not supplant, ongoing flood hazard
  mapping efforts by the community, regional agency, or State agency.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All States and Commonwealths (including the District of Columbia and
  territories and possessions of the United States), regional agencies, and
  communities may apply. Applicants must be communities participating and in
  good standing in the NFIP or service participating NFIP communities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State, local, specialized group, small business, general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There are no matching requirements; however, applicants must be technically
  capable of providing products or services that add value to the flood hazard
  mapping process.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
