  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through        
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the         
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                 
Records:                                                                                
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient    
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-   
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and          
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year  
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress      
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support     
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.    
Account Identification:                                                                 
  70-5464-0-2-453.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $54,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY           
  09 est not available.                                                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Refer to program guidance.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  To date, approximately, 231 communities, regional agencies, and State agencies        
  had signed Partnership Agreements with FEMA and are, therefore, active                
  participants in the CTP program. Approximately 63 percent of these participants       
  have undertaken specific mapping activities under Mapping Activity Statements.        
   Current information on specific mapping activities undertaken by participants is     
  available at http://www.fema.gov/plan/prevent/fhm/ctp_main.shtm.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Annual program guidance is available to all CTP initiative participants and the       
  general public on the FEMA website at                                                 
  www.fema.gov/plan/prevent/fhm/ctp_main.shtm.                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  FEMA Regional Offices will manage all program activities under the CTP                
  initiative. See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of FEMA Regional             
  Offices.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington,            
  DC 20528.                                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.dhs.gov.                                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  97.022, Flood Insurance; 97.070, Map Modernization Management Support.                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Examples of funded projects include: (1) Refinement of Approximate Zone A             
  Boundaries; (2) Hydrologic and Hydraulic Modeling and Floodplain Mapping;             
  (3) Digital Flood Insurance Rate Map Preparation; (4) Redelineation of Detailed       
  Flood Hazard Information Using Updated Topographic Data.                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.    
                                                                                        
97.046 FIRE MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE GRANT                                                 
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                        
  Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Act, Section 420 of Public

                                                                                        
  Law 93-288, as amended, 42 U.S.C.5187 as amended by the disaster Mitigation

                                                                                        
  Act of 2000. On October 30, 2001, the Fire Management Assistance Grant

                                                                                        
  Program replaced the Fire Suppression Assistance Program.

                                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                        
  To provide grants to States, Indian tribal governments and local governments for

                                                                                        
  the mitigation, management and control of any fire burning on publicly

                                                                                        
  (nonfederal) or privately owned forest or grassland that threatens such

                                                                                        
  destruction as would constitute a major disaster.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                        
  Project Grants; Provision of Specialized Services.

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Fire Management Assistance Grants are made in the form of cost-sharing grants         
  for the mitigation, management, and control of any fire on publicly (nonfederal)      
  or privately owned forestland or grassland that threatens such destruction as         
  would constitute a major disaster. The Fire Management Assistance Grant               
  Program, authorized by the Stafford Act and amended by the Disaster Mitigation        
  Act of 2000, provides for the mitigation, management and control of fires that        
  threaten such destruction as would constitute a major disaster.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  State governments and Indian tribal governments are eligible for fire                 
  management assistance grants. The State or Indian tribal government may be            
                                                                                        
  the Grantee. The Grantee is the government to which a grant is awarded, and is

                                                                                        
  accountable for the use of funds provided.

                                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  The State Government and/or Indian tribal government, acting as the Grantee, is       
                                                                                        


                                                                                   11-08
  the government to which the grant is awarded and which is accountable for the
  use of the funds provided. Other State entities, Indian tribal governments and
  local governments are eligible to apply for subgrants.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with FEMA Regulations, 44 CFR Part
  204. Federal funds will be awarded to subgrantees in accordance with State law
  and procedure and in compliance with 44 CFR Part 13 and 204. Grant awards
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circulars No. A-87 and No. A-102
  for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A FEMA-State Agreement and/or Indian tribal Agreement for the Fire
  Management Assistance Grant Program (the agreement)is signed by the
  Governor/Indian tribal government and the Regional Administrator at the
  beginning of the calendar year or after a State's first fire management assistance
  grant declaration in a calendar year. The agreement is amended for subsequent
  approvals of assistance for the remainder of the year. This agreement outlines the
  level of fire management assistance to be provided for all fires declared during
  the calendar year, and contains the necessary terms and conditions for requesting
  and receiving assistance. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  The Governor, Governor's Authorized Representative, or Indian tribal
  government may request a fire management assistance declaration through the
  FEMA Regional Administrator. To expedite the request, the State or Indian
  tribal government may submit a telephone request to the Regional
  Administrator, promptly followed by a confirming message or letter. The
  Assistant Administrator of the Disaster Assistance Directorate, shall render a
  decision on the State's request and notify the Regional Administrator of this
  decision. This decision may be relayed by telephone, to be followed by a written
  determination.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  Requests for fire management assistance declarations must be submitted while a
  fire is burning uncontrolled and threatens such destruction as would constitute a
  major disaster.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 1 hour to 72 hours.
Appeals:
  States have the recourse to two types of appeals under the Fire Management
  Assistance Grant Program. Under the first type of appeal, a Governor,
  Governor's Authorized Representative, or Indian tribal government may appeal a
  denial of its request for a fire management assistance declaration. The
  State/Indian tribal government should submit this one-time request for
  reconsideration in writing, with additional information, to the Assistant
  Administrator of the Disaster Assistance Directorate through the Regional
  Administrator. The appeal must be submitted within 30 days of the date of the
  letter denying the State's/Indian tribal government's request. The Assistant
  Administrator will render the final determination on this type of appeal within
  90 days of receipt of the appeal or receipt of the additional information
  requested. The Assistant Administrator may extend the 30-day period provided
  that the Governor, the Governor's Authorized Representative, or Indian tribal
  government submits a written request for a time extension within the 30-day
  period. The Assistant Administrator will evaluate the need for an extension
  based on the reasons cited in the request and either approve or deny the request
  for an extension. Under the second type of appeal, an applicant or subgrantee
  may appeal any determination FEMA makes under an approved fire
  management assistance declaration through a two level appeal process.
  Appellants must file appeals within 60 days after receipt of a notice of the action
  that is being appealed. The Grantee will review and forward appeals from an
  applicant or subgrantee, with a written recommendation, to the Regional
  Administrator within 60 days of receipt. The Regional Administrator will render
  a determination on first appeals for fire management assistance grant- related
  decisions within 90 days following receipt of the appeal or requested additional
  information. In the event the Regional Administrator denies the appeal, the
  applicant may submit a second-level appeal to the Assistant Administrator of the
  Disaster Assistance Directorate. Within 90 days following receipt of a second
  appeal, the Assistant Administrator, will notify the grantee in writing of the
  disposition of the appeal or of the need for additional information. If the
  decision is to grant the appeal, the Regional Administrator will take appropriate
  implementing action. The decision of the Assistant Administrator at the second
  appeal level shall be the final administrative decision of FEMA.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Fire Management Assistance Grants may be available to States on a 75 percent
  Federal/25 percent nonfederal cost-sharing basis when we determine that the
  State's application demonstrates either of the following: total eligible costs for
  the declared fire meet or exceed the individual fire cost threshold or total costs of
  all declared and non-declared fires in a given calendar year meet the cumulative
                                                                                    1631
