  fire cost threshold. The individual fire cost threshold for a State is the greater of  
  $100,000 or five percent x $1.22 x state population. The cumulative fire cost          
  threshold for a State is the greater of $500,000 or three times the five percent x     
  $1.22 x State population. Both formulas are adjusted annually for inflation            
  using the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published annually by           
  the Department of Labor.                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  The time interval for which a declared fire occurs is the incident period.             
  Generally costs must be incurred during the incident period to be considered           
  eligible. Pre-positioning of resources may be approved for Federal funding up to       
  a maximum of 21 days before a declared fire. Mobilization and demobilization           
  also occur outside the incident period and are eligible for Federal funding.           
  Temporary repair work must be completed within 30 days of the close of the             
  incident period for the declared fire.                                                 
Reports:                                                                                 
  Within 90 days of the Performance Period expiration date, the State must submit        
  a Financial Status Report (FEMA Form 20-10) which reports all costs incurred           
  within the incident period and all administrative costs incurred within the            
  performance period. The performance period, defined on the SF-424, may be 9            
  months from the close of the incident period and may be extended for an                
  additional 3 months by the Regional Administrator. During the performance              
  period the Grantee will submit the subgrants, which document eligible costs;           
  FEMA will review the eligibility of costs, and process, obligate, and close- out       
  the grant.                                                                             
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and           
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year   
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support      
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.     
Account Identification:                                                                  
  70-0702-0-1-453.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  (Grants and Services) FY 07 $62,179,997; FY 08 est $106,474,301; and FY 09             
  est not available.                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  None.                                                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  In FY 2006, 94 fire management assistance grants were authorized.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  Federal Disaster Assistance, Fire Management Assistance Grant Program                  
  Regulations, 44 CFR Part 204. See the Fire Management Assistance Grant                 
  Program page at: http://www.fema.gov/government/grant/fmagp/index.shtm.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of addresses for FEMA's Regional          
  Offices.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency                   
  (FEMA), c/o 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington, DC 20523.                        
  Telephone: (800) 621-FEMA (3363).                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  www.fema.gov.                                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
                                                                                         
97.047 PRE-DISASTER MITIGATION                                                           
                                                                                         
   (PDM)                                                                                 
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           


1632                                                                               11-08

  Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, Section 203,
  42 U.S.C. 5121-5206, as amended by Section 102 of the Disaster Mitigation Act
  of 2000.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide States and communities with a much needed source of pre-disaster
  mitigation funding for cost-effective hazard mitigation activities that are part of
  a comprehensive mitigation program, and that reduce injuries, loss of life, and
  damage and destruction of property.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  States are encouraged to use grants to implement a sustained pre-disaster hazard
  mitigation program to reduce risk to the population, the costs and disruption to
  individuals and businesses caused by severe property damage, and the ever-
  growing cost to all taxpayers of Federal disaster relief efforts. The program is
  similar to both the Flood Mitigation Assistance (FMA) Program and the Hazard
  Mitigation Grant Program (HMGP) in that there is an emphasis on "brick and
  mortar" mitigation projects and that State and local mitigation plans are required
  prior to approval of mitigation project grants. Allowable costs will be governed
  by 44 CFR Part 13, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments and OMB Circular A-
  87, Cost Principles for State, Local, and Indian Tribal Governments.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any State, including the District of Columbia, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the Trust Territories of
  the Pacific Islands, and the Mariana Islands, is eligible as well as Indian tribal
  governments.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Grantee eligibility. State and Indian tribal governments are eligible to apply for
  assistance as a grantee under the PDM program. Sub-grantee eligibility. Local
  governments and Indian tribal governments are eligible to apply to the grantee
  for assistance as a sub-grantee under the PDM program. In order for floodprone
  communities to receive funds, applicants must be participating in the National
  Flood Insurance Program (if they have been mapped through the NFIP) and must
  be in good standing (not on probation or suspension).
Credentials/Documentation:
  Grant awards will be determined in accordance with OMB Circulars No. A-102,
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local Governments and A-
  87, Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  FEMA will allocate the PDM funds annually to each FEMA Region for
  distribution among the States. FEMA will notify eligible States of the expected
  funding amounts prior to the beginning of each fiscal year. Local governments
  should consult the official designated point of contact in their State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  FEMA will contribute up to 75 percent of the cost of activities approved for
  funding. At least 25 percent of the total eligible costs will be provided from a
  nonfederal source. Grants awarded to small and impoverished communities may
  receive a Federal cost share of up to 90 percent of the total cost to implement
  eligible PDM activities. FEMA has adopted the Environmental Protection
  Agency's definition for a Small and Impoverished Community, which must meet
  all of the following criteria: it must be a community of 3,000 or fewer
  individuals that is identified by the State as a rural community, and is not a
  remote area within the corporate boundaries of a larger city; it must be
  economically disadvantaged, with residents having an average per capita annual
  income not exceeding 80 percent of national per capita income, based on best
  available data; it must have a local unemployment rate that exceeds by one
  percentage point or more, the most recently reported, average yearly national
  unemployment rate; and it must meet any other factors identified in the State
  Plan in which the community is located. All contributions, cash and in-kind, are
  accepted as part of the nonfederal matching share. Except as allowed by Federal
  statute, no other Federal grant funds can be used as a match. The following
  documentation is required for matching contributions: record of source of donor,
