  dates, rates, amounts, and deposit slips (cash contributions only). Requirements      
  for in-kind contributions can be found in OMB Circular A-102, Common Rule,            
  44 CFR 13.24.                                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                  
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                     
Reports:                                                                                
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.          
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.         
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: Jan. 30, April 30, July 30,    
  and Oct. 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days after the        
  expiration or termination of grant award.                                             
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,            
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"            
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal      
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Non-    
  federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are          
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular     
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through        
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the         
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                 
Records:                                                                                
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient    
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-   
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and          
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year  
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress      
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support     
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.    
Account Identification:                                                                 
  70-0700-0-1-453.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not          
  available. This CFDA will remain open for audit purposes until final closeout of      
  grants.                                                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Refer to program guidance.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Awards will be governed by Section 203 of the Stafford Act, the Federal               
  Register Notice of availability of Pre-Disaster Mitigation grants, and program        
  guidance, which will be made available to the public on the FEMA internet site:       
  www.fema.gov.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for the list of addresses of Federal Emergency         
  Management Agency Regional Offices.                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Drive, SW., Washington, DC                
  20528.                                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.dhs.gov.                                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  97.039, Hazard Mitigation Grant; 97.029, Flood Mitigation Assistance; 97.041,         
  National Dam Safety Program; 97.023, Community Assistance Program State               
  Support Services Element (CAP-SSSE).                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
97.048 DISASTER HOUSING ASSISTANCE TO                                                   
INDIVIDUALS AND HOUSEHOLDS IN PRESIDENTIAL                                              
                                                                                        
DECLARED DISASTER AREAS

                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act, as amended           
  by Public Law 106-390.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To provide financial assistance and, if necessary, direct assistance to individuals   
  and households affected as a direct result of a presidentially declared major         
  disaster or emergency, who have uninsured or under-insured, necessary expenses        
  and serious needs and are unable to meet such expenses or needs through other         
  means.                                                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    


                                                                                   11-08
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Restricted to Presidential-declared disasters or emergencies, such as an
  earthquake, hurricane, tornado, wildfire, or flood, etc. Program activates only
  after issuance of a presidential declaration. Housing Assistance, either Financial
  or Direct, may be provided for the following: (1) Temporary Housing, (2) Home
  Repair, (3) Home Replacement and (4) Permanent Housing Construction.
  Assistance not used for the specified purpose will be required to be returned.
  Other Needs Assistance may be provided for: (1) Medical, (2) Dental, (3)
  Funeral, (4) Personal Property, (5) Transportation, and (6) Other Miscellaneous
  Expenses. Assistance not used for the specified purpose will be required to be
  returned. If the State is providing for other needs under Section 408(f) of the
  Stafford Act, please refer to CFDA 97.050.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Individuals and households, in areas declared an emergency or major disaster by
  the President, whose primary residence has been damaged or destroyed and
  whose losses are not covered by insurance, are eligible to apply for this program.
   All needs must be caused by the disaster. The individual or a member of the
  household must be a citizen of the United States, a non-citizen national, or a
  qualified alien. Housing Assistance: 1) Temporary Housing Assistance - proof
  of primary residence; disaster caused displacement, and/or paid receipts for Rent
  or Lodging Expenses; 2) Repair - primary residence, proof of residency and
  ownership; disaster related home damage; 3) Replacement - primary residence,
  proof of residency and ownership; home destroyed by the disaster; 4) Permanent
  Housing Construction - primary residence, proof of residency and ownership;
  disaster related home damage, home is located in an insular area outside the
  continental United States or in other remote locations. Alternative housing
  resources are unavailable, infeasible, or not cost-effective. Other Needs
  Assistance: 1)Medical-disaster caused expenses, and/or paid receipts (bills) for
  medical treatment; 2) Dental-disaster caused expenses, and/or paid receipts
  (bills) for treatment; 3) Funeral - disaster caused expenses, and/or paid receipts
  (bills) for services; 4) Personal Property proof of ownership; disaster related
  personal property damage; 5)Transportation, proof of ownership; vehicle
  complies with State laws, disaster caused vehicle damage; 6) Other Necessary
  Expenses and Serious Needs Identified, the expense or need must be caused by
  the disaster and approved by FEMA.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individual/Family; Homeowner (located within an area which has been
  designated as a disaster area, by Presidential declaration).
Credentials/Documentation:
  FEMA Disaster Assistance Regulations at 44 CFR Part 206.110-120.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Based on damage assessments and an agreement to commit state funds and
  resources to the long-term recovery, the State Governor makes a request (through
  the FEMA regional Director) for a Presidential Declaration for an emergency or
  major disaster. Requests for assistance must be made by the Governor in
  accordance with FEMA Disaster Assistance Regulations, 44 CFR 206, except as
  provided in Part 206.24(d) for emergency declarations involving primarily
  Federal responsibility. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  Intergovernmental Review of Federal Program. If the State has selected the
  program for Review, an applicant should consult the office or official designated
  as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance. Requests for
  assistance must be made by the Governor in accordance with FEMA Disaster
  Assistance Regulations, 44 CFR 206, except as provided in Part 206.24(d) for
  emergency declarations involving primarily Federal responsibility.
Application Procedure:
  A Presidential Disaster or Emergency Declaration must be issued, before
  individuals and households can register an application for assistance with FEMA
  via a toll-free number or FEMA's Internet Application or by visiting a Disaster
  Recovery Center. Applications will not be accepted from individuals residing
  outside of the area declared as a disaster.
Award Procedure:
  Funds are allocated from the President's Disaster Relief Fund for use in a
  designated emergency or major disaster. Households receive assistance directly
  from FEMA or through disaster aid programs of other participating federal or
  state agencies.
Deadlines:
  Generally, individual and household applications for disaster assistance must be
  filed within 60 days of the disaster declaration.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Varies, in general 7-21 days.
Appeals:
  Appeals of program decisions must be submitted in writing within 60 days of the
  date of the notification letter.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Housing - not applicable. Other Needs - FEMA or the State may administer the
  Other Needs Assistance Program. State provides 25 percent of the funds for the
                                                                                 1633
