  FEMA under Section 408(f) to administer the other needs program. If a grant        
  has not been requested by the State, the assistance is provided for under CFDA     
  97.048.                                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide assistance to individuals and households affected by a disaster or      
  emergency declared by the President, and enable them to address necessary          
  expenses and serious needs, which cannot be met through other forms of disaster    
  assistance or through other means such as insurance.                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Restricted to Presidential-declared disasters or emergencies, such as an           
  earthquake, hurricane, tornado, wildfire, or flood, etc. Program activates only    
  after issuance of a presidential declaration. "Other Needs Assistance" may be      
  provided for the following: 1) Medical, 2) Dental, 3) Funeral, 4) Personal         
  Property, 5) Transportation, and 6) Other Miscellaneous Expenses. Assistance       
  not used for the specified purpose will be required to be returned. If the State is
  providing for other needs under Section 408(f) of the Stafford Act, please refer   
  to CFDA 97.050.                                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Applicant Eligibility for individuals and households affected by a Presidential-   
  declared disaster or emergency: 1) Medical disaster caused expenses, and/or paid   
  receipts (bills) for medical treatment; 2) Dental disaster caused expenses, and/or 
  paid receipts (bills) for treatment; 3) Funeral disaster caused expenses, and/or   
  paid receipts (bills) for services; 4) Personal Property proof of ownership;       
  disaster caused personal damage; 5) Transportation proof of ownership; vehicle     
  complies with State laws, disaster caused vehicle damage; and 6) Other             
  Necessary Expenses and Serious Needs Identified the expense or need must be        
  caused by the disaster and approved by FEMA.                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Individual and family located within an area which, by Presidential declaration,   
  has been designated as a disaster area.                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  FEMA Disaster Assistance Regulations at 44 CFR Part 206.                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Based on damage assessments and an agreement to commit state funds and             
  resources to the long-term recovery, the State Governor makes a request (through   
  the FEMA Regional Director) for a Presidential Declaration for an emergency or     
  major disaster. Requests for assistance must be made by the Governor in            
  accordance with FEMA Disaster Assistance Regulations, 44 CFR 206, except as        
  provided in Part 206.24(d) for emergency declarations involving primarily          
  Federal responsibility. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,

  Intergovernmental Review of Federal Program. If the State has selected the         
  program for Review, an applicant should consult the office or official designated

                                                                                     
  as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the

                                                                                     
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  A Presidential Disaster or Emergency Declaration must first be issued.

                                                                                     
  Afterwards, individuals and households located within a Presidentially-declared

                                                                                     
  disaster area, may register an application for assistance with FEMA via a toll-

                                                                                     
  free number or FEMA Internet application or by visiting a Disaster Recovery

                                                                                     
  Center.                                                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Funds are allocated from the President's Disaster Relief Fund for use in a

                                                                                     
  designated emergency or major disaster. Households receive assistance directly

                                                                                     
  from FEMA or through disaster aid programs of other participating federal or

                                                                                     
  state agencies.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  Generally, individual and household applications for disaster assistance must be

                                                                                     
  filed within 60 days of the disaster declaration.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  7-21 days.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

  Appeals of program decisions must be submitted in writing within 60 days of the    
                                                                                     
  date of the notification letter.

                                                                                     
Renewals:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Housing not applicable; other needs FEMA or the State may administer the other     
  needs provision. The State provides 25 percent of the funds for the total number   
  of grants disbursed for the designated disaster. The Federal Government            
  provides the remaining 75 percent of the costs for grant awards as well as the     
  regulations, policies, and procedures that govern the provision. States may also   
  receive up to 5 percent of the Federal share of the program for administrative     
                                                                                     
  costs. The Governor may request a loan of the State's 25 percent share.

                                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Generally, a one time assistance payment, with a total assistance period of no     
  longer than 18 months.                                                             
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly and final financial reports are required.                                




                                                                                11-08
Audits:
  Internal program audits are conducted. Also, in accordance with the provisions
  of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program- specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that
  expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards is exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Expenditure records (receipts) and related documents must be retained by the
  recipient for three years from the date of payment.
Account Identification:
  70-0702-0-1-453.
Obligations:
  (Financial assistance) FY 07 $5,426,292; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Currently ranges from $50.00 $28,200.00.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In previous fiscal years, this program provided assistance to individuals and
  households affected by disasters such as hurricanes, tornadoes, or flooding, etc.
  For example, approximately 1.3 million households were approved for assistance
  in the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Emergency Assistance Regulations, 44 CFR 206.110-120.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of addresses for FEMA's Regional
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington,
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.048, Disaster Housing Assistance to Individuals and Households in
  Presidential Declared Disaster Areas; 97.049, Presidential Declared Disaster
  Assistance - Disaster Housing Operations for Individuals and Households.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
97.052 EMERGENCY OPERATIONS CENTERS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (Stafford
  Act), 42 U.S.C. 5121 - 5206; the Departments of Veterans Affairs, Housing and
  Urban Development, and Independent Agencies Appropriations Act, 2000,
  Public Law 106-74.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of the Emergency Operations Centers program is to supplement and
  assist State and local efforts to improve their capabilities to respond to
  emergencies or disasters including any that may be caused by terrorist attacks
  using conventional means or Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD). The
  program provides grants to the States to encourage the development of
  Emergency Operations Centers (EOCs) that provide flexibility, sustainability,
  security, survivability and interoperability. Fully capable emergency operations
  facilities at the State and local levels are an essential element of a comprehensive
  national emergency management system and are necessary to ensure continuity
  of operations and continuity of government in major disasters caused by any
  hazard.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Emergency Operations Centers funds currently available will be awarded in two
  phases. A Phase 1 grant of $50,000 to each State will be used for an initial
  assessment of the hazards, vulnerabilities, and resultant risk to existing EOCs. If
  a State has already completed a vulnerability assessment of its existing State
  EOC, it may apply to use the funds to conduct initial assessments of local EOCs.
   Phase 2 grants will be used to address the most immediate EOC deficiencies
  nationwide.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States are eligible to apply for the assistance under this program. For purposes
  of this program and consistent with the Stafford Act, 42 U.S.C. 5122(4), "State"
  means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the
  Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the
  Northern Mariana Islands. Local governments may receive assistance as
  subgrantees to the States in which they are located. The term "local
                                                                                   1635
