  government" as used in this program has the meaning set forth in the Stafford       
  Act, 42 U.S.C. 5122(6).                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Funding under this program is ultimately to benefit States and local                
  governments.                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  A program point of contact must be designated by the chief elected official of      
  each jurisdiction eligible to apply to FEMA for assistance.                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review. Some EOC projects including              
  physical modifications to EOCs for secure communications equipment require          
  environmental impact assessments.                                                   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Emergency Operations Centers is one of several program activities funded under      
  the 2002 Supplemental Appropriations Act for Further Recovery From and              
  Response To Terrorist Attacks on the United States, P.L. 107-206. States can        
  use a single application to apply for assistance from several program activities,   
  including the EOC Phase 1 grant. EOC Phase 2 grants will be applied for             
  separately. Grant application guidance is provided to the point of contact          
  designated by the State chief elected official. FEMA regional personnel will        
  work directly with the States providing technical assistance, as required, as       
  States develop their applications. Local governments apply to their States using    
  procedures established by the States.                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  FEMA Regional Offices notify States when awards are approved. States notify         
  local subgrantees of the amounts of their awards.                                   
Deadlines:                                                                            
  All eligible applicants will be notified of target dates and any applicable         
  deadlines by way of the guidance packages provided to the State points of           
  contact.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Decisions will be made and States notified within 60 days from date application     
  is received by the FEMA Regional Office.                                            
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.

Renewals:                                                                             
  A new application is required for each Federal fiscal year.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The funds for EOCs will be awarded in two phases. Each State will be allocated      
  a $50,000 Phase 1 grant, which is targeted for an initial assessment of the         
                                                                                      
  hazards, vulnerabilities, and resultant risk to an existing EOC. Phase 1 EOC

                                                                                      
  activity will be 100 percent federally funded and will require no cost share.

                                                                                      
  Phase 2 EOC grants will be awarded as project grants to address the most

                                                                                      
  immediate EOC deficiencies nationwide. The Phase 2 EOC grants will require a

                                                                                      
  50 percent non-Federal cost share.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                      
  Grants are awarded for the total dollar amount, but the release of funds is on an

                                                                                      
  as needed basis. The initial performance period for non-construction grants is

                                                                                      
  ordinarily one year. Longer or shorter performance periods may be negotiated

                                                                                      
  depending on needs of the grantees and national program management

                                                                                      
  requirements. Performance periods for EOC Phase 2 grants will be negotiated

                                                                                      
  based on the requirements of each project. States are required to initiate

                                                                                      
  requests for funds as close as administratively feasible to the actual

                                                                                      
  disbursements for program costs.

                                                                                      
Reports:

                                                                                      
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.

                                                                                      
  The progress of each subgrant award will be included in the grantee's quarterly

                                                                                      
  reports as required by 44 CFR 13.40 and 44 CFR 13.41. Reports are due 30

                                                                                      
  days after the end of each quarter. Report dates are January 30, April 30, July

                                                                                      
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days

                                                                                      
  after the expiration or termination of grant support as required by 44 CFR 13.50.

                                                                                      
  Reports are to be submitted to the FEMA Regional Director. When the

                                                                                      
  Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) Payment Management

                                                                                      
  System (SMARTLINK) is used for advanced or reimbursement payments, the

                                                                                      
  grantee is required to submit a copy of Federal Cash Transaction Report

                                                                                      
  (HHS/PMS 272) to FEMA when it is submitted to HHS.

                                                                                      
Audits:

                                                                                      
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June

                                                                                      
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more a year

                                                                                      
  in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for

                                                                                      
  that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                      
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                      
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                      
Records:

                                                                                      
  Grant records include financial and programmatic records, supporting

                                                                                      
1636                                                                            11-08

  documents, statistical records, and other records of recipient or sub-recipient
  which are required to be maintained by 44 CFR Part 13.42, program regulations
  or the grant agreement. Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years
  from the day the recipient submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation,
  claim, negotiation, audit, or other action involving the records has been started
  before the expiration of the 3-year period, the records must be retained until
  completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until
  the end of the regular 3-year period, whichever is later.
Account Identification:
  58-0101-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Minimum grant of $50,000 to each State.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not applicable. New program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  All available, relevant guidance is provided to the designated points of contact
  of all eligible State participants.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for FEMA regional offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Gil Jamieson, Federal Emergency Management Agency, Office of National
  Preparedness, 500 C Street, SW., Washington, DC 20472, (202) 646-4090 or e-
  mail: gil.jamieson@fema.gov. FAX: (202) 646-4053. 24-hour per day FEMA
  Telephone Operator Service is available at: (202) 566-1600.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.051, State and Local All Hazards Emergency Operations Planning; 97.053,
  Citizen Corps; 97.025, National Urban Search and Rescue (US&R) Response
  System; 97.038, First Responder Counter-Terrorism Training Assistance;
  97.044, Assistance to Firefighters Grant.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
97.053 CITIZEN CORPS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007, Public
  Law 110-53 and the Department of Homeland Security Appropriation Act, 2008,
  Division E, Consolidated Appropriation Act, 2008, Public Law 110-161.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of Citizen Corps is to bring together community and government
  leaders to coordinate community involvement in emergency preparedness,
  planning, mitigation, response and recovery.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Citizen Corps funds currently available must be used for activities described in
  the Citizen Corps guidance materials provided to each State's designated point
  of contact. Grantees will be expected to develop a jurisdiction-wide strategic
  plan for the Citizen Corps initiative and to implement the elements of that plan.
  Of the funding provided for Citizen Corps activities, 75 percent must be passed
  through by the grantees to local governments. Localities receiving grants may
  use the funding for Citizen Corps Council organizing activities; for organizing,
  training, equipping, and maintaining CERTs; for defraying the added expense of
  liability coverage for CERT participants; and for outreach and public education
  campaigns to promote Citizen Corps and community and family safety
  measures, to include printing, marketing, advertising, and special events.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States are eligible to apply for the assistance under this program. For purposes
  of this program and consistent with the Stafford Act, 42 U.S.C. 5122(4), "State"
  means any State of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the
  Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the
  Northern Mariana Islands. Local governments may receive assistance as
  subgrantees to the States in which they are located. The term "local
  government" as used in this program has the meaning set forth in the Stafford
  Act, 42 U.S.C. 5122(6), and includes any county, city, village, town, district, or
  other political subdivision of any State, any Indian tribe or authorized tribal
  organization, or Alaska Native village or organization, including any rural
  community or unincorporated town or village or any other public entity for
  which an application for assistance is made by a State or political subdivision
  thereof.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local units of government.
