Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  A program point of contact must be designated by the chief elected official of      
  each jurisdiction eligible to apply to DHS for assistance.                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                     
  application/program guidance.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.         
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the         
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                               
Deadlines:

  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Refer to program guidance document.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  A new application is required for each Federal fiscal year.                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  States will be allocated a base amount of Citizen Corps funds using the             
  percentages prescribed in Section 1014 of the USA Patriot Act, P.L. 107-56.         
  Each State will be allocated a base amount of 0.75 percent of the total amount      
  available except that the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the             
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands each will be allocated a base          
  amount of 0.25 percent of the total amount available. The remaining Citizen         
  Corps grant funds will be allocated on the basis of population and added to the     
  base amounts. The Citizen Corps grants will carry no cost-share requirement.        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                   
Reports:                                                                              
  Categorical Assistance Progress Reports (CAPR) and Biannual Strategy                
  Implementation Reports (BSIR) are due within 30 days after the end of the           
  reporting periods, which are June 30 and December 31, for the life of the award.    
  Grantees are also required to submit quarterly financial reports. These reports     
  are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: Jan. 30, April 30, July 30, and      
  Oct. 30. Final financial, CAPR and BSIR reports are due 90 days after the           
  expiration or termination of the grant award.                                       
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,          
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,            
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal    
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.       
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are     
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular   
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through      
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the       
  grantees fiscal year.                                                               
Records:                                                                              
  Grant records shall retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, 
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and      
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress    
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support   
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.  
Account Identification:                                                               
  70-0560-0-1-999.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $550,000 (remaining funding included in 97.067); FY 08 est           
  $14,572,500; and FY 09 est $15,000,000.                                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Refer to program guidance.                                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  All available, relevant guidance is provided to the designated points of contact    
  of all eligible State participants.                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane, Bldg. #410, Washington,           


                                                                                 11-08
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.051, State and Local All Hazards Emergency Operations Planning; 97.052,
  Emergency Operations Centers; 97.025, National Urban Search and Rescue
  (US&R) Response System; 97.038, First Responder Counter-Terrorism Training
  Assistance; 97.042, Emergency Management Performance Grants; 97.044,
  Assistance to Firefighters Grant; 97.008, Urban Areas Security Initiative;
  97.071, Metropolitan Medical Response System; 97.073, State Homeland
  Security Program (SHSP); 97.074, Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention
  Program (LETPP).
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.055 INTEROPERABLE COMMUNICATIONS
EQUIPMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; Federal Fire Prevention
  and Control Act of 1974, 15 U.S.C., Section 2201-2232; Consolidated
  Appropriations Resolution, Public Law 108-7 (2003); Emergency Wartime
  Supplemental Appropriations Act, Public Law 108-11 (2003).
OBJECTIVES:
  Provide funding to jurisdictions across the nation for demonstration projects that
  will explore uses of equipment and technologies to increase interoperability
  among the fire service, law enforcement, and emergency medical service
  communities. These projects will illustrate and encourage the acceptance of new
  technologies and operating methods to assist communities in achieving
  interoperability.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Designated jurisdictions will be invited to submit applications for interoperable
  communications projects that include the purchase of interoperable
  communications equipment components for multi-disciplinary and/or multi-
  jurisdictional public safety communications projects. Requests may provide
  local jurisdictions with equipment or services to participate on public safety,
  commercial, or other shared networks and portable gateway solutions.
  Applicants may request assistance for other technologies if the application
  demonstrates how the proposed technology will improve interoperability among
  the public safety community. If an interoperable communications plan has not
  been developed, the application should also include a description of how a plan
  will be established as part of the proposed project.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Local governments nominated by State or Territory government to submit an
  application.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Local governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  FEMA will invite a limited number of local jurisdictions, as designated by their
  respective State's Governor, to submit competitive proposals for interoperable
  communications demonstration projects. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Grant awards will require a 25%
  nonfederal cost share. The source of the match funds must be identified in the
  grant application. The match does not need to be a cash match. In-kind
  contributions are permitted and must be activities in direct support of and
                                                                                 1637
