  eligible under the project. The nonfederal share may not be funded by other            
  federal funds unless permitted by Federal statute.                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                   
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                      
Reports:                                                                                 
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.           
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.          
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July      
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days            
  after the expiration or termination of grant award. Grantees will also be required     
  to conduct a final evaluation as a condition of the demonstration grant award.         
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and           
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year   
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support      
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.     
Account Identification:                                                                  
  58-0101-0-1-999.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  Refer to program guidance.                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  It is anticipated that 56 applications will be received and approximately 14           
  grants will be awarded.                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  None.                                                                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency                   
  (FEMA), c/o 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington, DC 20523,                        
  Telephone: (202) 646-3850 FAX: (202) 646-3061.                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  www.fema.gov .                                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.     
                                                                                         
97.056 PORT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM                                                       
                                                                                         
   (Port Security Grants)                                                                
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act of FY 2007,                    
  Public Law 110-53 and the Department of Homeland Security Appropriation                
  Act, 2008 Division E, Consolidated Appropriation Act 2008, Public law 110-             
  161.                                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To provide funds to port areas for the protection of critical port infrastructure      
  from terrorism. To assist ports enhancing maritime domain awareness,                   
  improving risk management capabilities to prevent, detect, respond to and              
  recover from attacks involving improvised explosive devices (IEDs) and other           
  non-conventional weapons, as well as training and exercises and TWIC                   
  implementation.                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                               
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Funds may be used for costs associated with maritime domain awareness; IED

                                                                                         
  prevention, protection, response, and recovery capabilities; training and



1638                                                                               11-08

  exercises; and management administration. The program guidance outlines uses
  and restrictions in detail.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All entities covered by an Area Maritime Security Plan (AMSP) may submit an
  application for consideration of funding. However, Congress has also
  specifically directed DHS to apply these funds to the highest risk ports within
  the United States. In support of this, a total of 102 critical port areas1,
  representing approximately 95 percent of the foreign waterborne commerce of
  the United States, have been specifically identified. In a number of cases, these
  port areas have also been grouped together to reflect geographic proximity,
  shared risk and a common waterway. The following three entities are
  specifically encouraged to apply: 1) owners/operators of federally regulated
  terminals, facilities, or U.S. inspected passenger vessels as defined in the
  Maritime Transportation Security Act (MTSA) 33 CFR Parts 101, 104, 105, and
  106; 2) port authorities or other State and local agencies that provide layered
  security protection to federally regulated facilities in accordance with an AMSP
  or a facility or vessel security plan; and 3) consortia composed of local
  stakeholder groups (e.g., river groups, ports, and terminal associations)
  representing federally regulated ports, terminals, U.S. inspected passenger
  vessels, or ferries that provide layered security protection to federally regulated
  facilities in accordance with an AMSP or a facility or vessel security plan. Please
  refer to the program guidance and application kit for more details regarding
  applicant eligibility.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Critical national seaports and terminals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is not covered under Executive Order 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs."
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. There is a matching requirement of 25
  percent of total project costs for public sector entities and 50 percent for private
  sector entities.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Categorical Assistance Progress Reports (CAPR) are required semi-annually and
  are due within 30 days after the end of the reporting period (July 30 with a
  reporting period of January 1 through June 30, and January 30 with a reporting
  period of July 1 through December 31) for the life of the award. Grantees are
  also required to submit quarterly Financial Status Reports (FSR). The FSR are
  due 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter on January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30. Final CAPR and FSR reports are due 90 days after the
  expiration or termination of grant award, whichever occurs first.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit,
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
