  cargo supply chain security management while facilitating the flow of trade.         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Allowable costs are detailed in the Request for Applications (RFA). Cost             
  principles applicable to the awards are OMB Circular No. A-21 for institutions       
  of higher education, with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local                  
  governments, with OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations, and            
  with 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. In general, funds may be           
  used for equipment, supplies, services or consultants, travel, audits, other direct  
  costs, facilities and administrative costs (i.e., indirect costs), and other costs   
  related to meeting the program objectives. Funds shall not be used for personnel.    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Applicants eligible for the most recent competition were Load Centers, defined       
  as the Ports of Los Angeles/Long Beach, Seattle/Tacoma, and the Port Authority       
  of New York/New Jersey.                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Immediate beneficiaries include applicable stakeholders in the supply chain.         
  Applicable ports will benefit as designated in successful proposals.                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Stakeholder participation must be demonstrated through letter(s) of                  
  commitment. A copy of the applicant's Federally approved indirect cost rate          
  agreement should be submitted. In addition, National Environmental Policy Act        
  (NEPA)information is required.                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Preapplication Coordination: This program is not covered under Executive             
  Order 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs".                         
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                      
  application/program guidance.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.

  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the          
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.

Deadlines:                                                                             
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no statutory formula and no matching requirements.                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                 
  Improvement Act for payment/or reimbursement of expenditures.                        
Reports:                                                                               
  Categorical Assistance Progress Reports (CAPR) are due within 30 days after          
  the end of the reporting periods, which are June 30 and December 31, for the life    
  of the award. Grantees are also required to submit quarterly financial reports.      
  These reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April       
  30, July 30, and October 30.Final financial and CAPR reports are due 90 days         
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,           
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal     
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.        
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are      
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular    
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through       
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the        
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient   
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit,  
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the  
                                                                                       
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and

                                                                                       
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year

                                                                                       
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress

                                                                                       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support    
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.   
Account Identification:                                                                
  70-0560-0-1-402.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Cooperative Agreements)FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0 not available; and FY 09 est not          
  available.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             


1640                                                                             11-08

  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  During the last funding period, 18 projects were approved.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Department of Transportation (DOT) grant related regulations include 49 CFR
  Parts 17-21, 26, 29, and 32. DOT regulations may be superseded by
  corresponding or applicable new regulations issued by the Department of
  Homeland Security for this program. Cost principles applicable to the awards are
  OMB Circular No. A-21 for institutions of higher education, with OMB Circular
  No. A-87 for State and local governments, with OMB Circular No. A-122 for
  nonprofit organizations, and with 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations.
  In addition, the U.S. Customs Service operates related initiatives called the
  Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) and the Container
  Security Initiative (CSI). See http://www.customs.treas.gov/ for further
  information on those programs.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane, Bldg. #410, Washington,
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.056, Port Security Grant Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Security measures addressed 18 specified supply chain nodes, pilot use of
  commercial-off-the-shelf technology and emerging technologies; development
  and demonstration of a comprehensive supply chain security approach; and
  monitoring and warning about potential threats in supply chain logistics.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.059 TRUCK SECURITY PROGRAM
   (Truck Security Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Implementing Recommendations of the 9/11 Commission Act, Public Law 110-
  53 and the Department of Homeland Security Appropriation Act 2008, Division
  E, Consolidated Appropriations Act 2008, Public Law 110-161.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote security awareness and anti-terrorism for the highway professionals
  in support of the National Preparedness Guidelines and associated National
  Priorities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To train the Nation's transportation community to observe and report any
  suspicious activities or items that many threaten the critical elements of the
  Nation's highway transportation system. Allowable uses include: Participant
  Identification and Recruitment, training, communications, and Information
  Analysis and Distribution. See the program guidance for a detailed explanation
  of allowable uses and restrictions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The American Trucking Associations (ATA) is the sole entity eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Interstate, Intrastate, State, and local.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula and no matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Categorical Assistance Progress Reports (CAPR) are required semi-annually and
  are due within 30 days after the end of the reporting period (July 30 with a
  reporting period of January 1 through June 30, and January 30 with a reporting
