  period of July 1 through December 31) for the life of the award. Grantees are        
  also required to submit quarterly Financial Status Reports (FSR). The FSR are        
  due 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter on January 30, April 30, July     
  30, and October 30. Final CAPR and FSR reports are due 90 days after the             
  expiration or termination of grant award, whichever occurs first.                    
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,           
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal     
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.        
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are      
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular    
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through       
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the        
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient   
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit,  
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the  
                                                                                       
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and

                                                                                       
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year

                                                                                       
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress

                                                                                       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support

                                                                                       
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.

                                                                                       
Account Identification:                                                                
  70-0560-0-1-999.

                                                                                       
Obligations:

                                                                                       
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $11,640,000; FY 08 est $15,544,000; and FY

                                                                                       
  09 est $8,000,000.

                                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                       
  Refer to program guidance.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                       
  The Highway Watch(r) Program, funded via TSP, continues to provide a

                                                                                       
  sustainable national program to enhance security and overall preparedness on

                                                                                       
  our Nation's highways. Its benefits and resources are now available to all

                                                                                       
  professionals and operating entities throughout the highway sector, including

                                                                                       
  private companies, public entities, and governmental operations.

                                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  For regulations and guidelines, please refer to the program guidance and             
  application kit.                                                                     
                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

  Not applicable.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane, Bldg. #410, Washington,            
  DC 20528.                                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  www.fema.gov.                                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  97.057, Intercity Bus Security Grants; 97.075, Rail and Transit Security Grant       
  Program; 97.078, Buffer Zone Protection Program (BZPP); 97.056, Port                 
  Security Grant Program.                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Projects have addressed identification and recruitment of appropriate training       
  programs participants; conducting highway domain awareness security training;        
  maintaining a Highway Watch(r) Call Center; and information analysis and             
  distribution.                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.   
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
97.060 PORT SECURITY RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT                                          
GRANT                                                                                  
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Department of Transportation, Maritime Transportation Security Act of 2002,

                                                                                       
  Public Law 107-295, Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296.

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To identify technology solutions for port security through research and

                                                                                       
  development that will provide end products that meet or exceed the following         
  four priorities: Cargo Information Action Center, Passengers and Vehicles            
  Screening on Ferries, Transparency of Vessel Ownership and Operation Restore.        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Allowable costs are detailed in Request for Application (RFA) and are restricted     
  to research and development activities.                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Research and Development activities at National Laboratories, private nonprofit      


                                                                                 11-08 
  organizations, institutions of higher education and other entities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Specialized Group; critical national seaports and terminals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has a statutory 75/25 match requirement. See 46 U.S.C.
  70107(c)(1).
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The period of performance is up to 18 months. Funds will be made available
  upon award, however authorization will be provided based upon progress.
Reports:
  Quarterly Earned Value Management Reports and Quarterly Project Status
  Reports, Final Project Report and Final Financial Status Report are required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of three years from the day the
  recipient submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim,
  negotiation, audit, or other action involving the records has been started before
  the expiration of the three-year period, the records must be retained until
  completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until
  the end of the regular three-year period, whichever is later. Grant records
  include financial and program/progress reports, support documents, statistical
  records, and other documents that support the activity and/or expenditure of the
  recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0508-0-1-402.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Cost principles applicable to the awards are: OMB Circular No. A-21 for cost
  principles for educational institutions, OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and
  local governments, OMB Circular No. A-102 grants and cooperative agreements
  with state and local governments, A-110 uniform administrative requirements
  for grants and agreements with institutions of higher education, A-122 for
  nonprofit organizations, 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations and A-
  133 for audits. Solicitation guidelines will be made available.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Transportation Security Administration Headquarters, Office of Acquisition,
  TSA-25, 701 South 12th Street, Arlington VA 22202, Pat Masterson;
  Telephone: (571) 227-1587.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.tsa.gov (click on business opportunities).
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.058, Operation Safe Commerce (OSC) Cooperative Agreement Program;
  97.056, Port Security Grant Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Regional Maritime Security Coalitions Cargo Information Action Center,
                                                                                  1641
