  Operation Restore's Dynamic Shipping Rerouting Decision Support Tool,                
  http://www.operationrestore.org .                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.   
                                                                                       
97.061 CENTERS FOR HOMELAND SECURITY                                                   
                                                                                       
   (Centers of Excellence)                                                             
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, 6 U.S.C. 188(b), Section 1205 of Public Law           
  110-53, Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriation Act of 2003, Public             
  Law 108-7; and Section 570 of Public Law 110-161.                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  Establishment of a coordinated, university-based system to enhance the Nation's      
  homeland security. The Department of Homeland Security Centers are                   
  envisioned to be an integral and critical component of the new homeland              
  security complex that will provide the Nation with a robust, dedicated and           
  enduring capability that will enhance our ability to anticipate, prevent, respond    
  to, and recover from terrorist attacks. These Centers will also provide a locus to   
  attract and retain the Nation's best and brightest academic scholars in pursuit of   
  homeland security related disciplines. The DHS Centers will complement other         
  programs within the Department (including the Homeland Security Advanced             
  Research Projects Agency) and in other Federal agencies that fund projects-          
  focused research aimed at the development and deployment of specific                 
  homeland security technologies and capabilities. DHS Centers may also include        
  cooperative center arrangements with other Federal agencies, or national             
  laboratories.                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Universities selected by DHS, may use grant funds for: (1) targeted research         
  areas that leverage the multidisciplinary capabilities of universities and fill gaps 
  in our needed knowledge and our ability to counter terrorist attacks; and            
  (2)involve U.S. undergraduate,graduate, and post-doctoral students who are           
  interested,dedicated and committed to making important contributions in              
  science andtechnology endeavors that will enhance the overall security of the        
  nation.                                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:

  Eligible applicants are accredited U.S. institutions of higher education.            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Public and private colleges and universities.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.

Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                      
  application/program guidance.                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff for       
  eligibility and responsiveness. Applications will undergo merit review by a panel    
  of subject matter experts which may include federal and non-federal reviewers.       
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the          
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                                
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Refer to announcement or program guidance document.                                  
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Renewals of grant awards are based on performance, program plan, and                 
  availability of funds.                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                 
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                    
Reports:                                                                               
  Refer to announcement/program guidance or the award document. Final                  
  financial and performance reports are due 90 days after the expiration or            
  termination of grant award.                                                          
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,           
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"           
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal     
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.



1642                                                                             11-08

  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0800-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $23,963,885; FY 08 est $32,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Support continues for the existing Centers of Excellence and five new Centers
  are expected to be funded in FY 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, University Programs, 245 Murray Drive,
  Building #410, S.W., Washington, DC 20523. E-mail:
  universityprograms@dhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.sciencetosecurity.org.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Information on current DHS Centers of Excellence can be found at
  http://www.sciencetosecurity.org.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.062 SCHOLARS AND FELLOWS, AND EDUCATIONAL
PROGRAMS
   (DHS Scholars and Fellows)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296, Section 302 (10).
OBJECTIVES:
  The objectives of this program are: (1) increase the intellectual capacity, skills
  and talents, especially those of U.S. citizens in areas of relevance to homeland
  security; (2) to attract undergraduate and graduate students to obtain advanced
  degrees in disciplines of importance to homeland security; (3) provide advanced
  professional and research development opportunities for fellows, scholars and
  faculty in targeted areas; and (4) to increase a diverse and highly talented cadre
  of new and emerging science and technology expertise working in areas of
  importance and need to homeland security.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Individuals must be U.S. citizens and employed or enrolled in an accredited U.S.
  institution of higher learning, e.g., university, college, etc.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All applicants must be U.S. citizens. Applicants must be a rising college junior
  or first or second year graduate student, or postdoctoral fellow, studying in one
  of the following areas including: computer science, engineering, life sciences,
  math, physical sciences, psychology, social sciences, DVM/PhD, and certain
  humanities. Applicants must be enrolled in full-time at accredited U.S.
  institutions. Applicants should have career and employment goals aligned with
  the mission and objectives of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security.
  Postdoctoral scientists and engineers who have held the doctorate degree less
  than five years at the time of application. Summer faculty fellows must have
  tenure or be tenure-tracked and be from a minority serving institution.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Undergraduate Student, Graduate Student, Postdoctoral Scholars, and Minority
  Serving Institution Faculty.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
