Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                   
  application/program guidance.                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.       
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the       
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                             
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Refer to program guidance document.                                               
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Based on availability of funding and academic progress.                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Refer to program guidance.                                                        
Reports:

                                                                                    
  Participant feedback and progress reports are required.

                                                                                    
Audits:

                                                                                    
  None.

Records:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                             
  70-0800-0-1-999.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $3,000,000; FY 08 est $3,500,000; and FY 09 est not available.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Refer to program guidance.                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  The program succeeded in selecting 105 Scholars and Fellows in August of the      
  preceding fiscal year.                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  None.                                                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Department of Homeland Security, University Programs, 245 Murray Lane,            
  Building 410, Washington, DC 20523. E-mail: universityprograms@dhs.gov .          
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  www.dhs.gov .                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  47.070, Computer and Information Science and Engineering; 47.049,                 
  Mathematical and Physical Sciences; 47.041, Engineering Grants; 47.050,           
  Geosciences; 47.078, Polar Programs; 15.059, Indian Graduate Student              
  Scholarships.                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Information on current DHS funding can be found at                                
  http://www.sciencetosecurity.org.                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
97.064 DEBRIS REMOVAL INSURANCE

                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003, Public Law 108-7.                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  The project will consist of the incorporation of a captive insurance company by   
  the City of New York in the State of New York to insure the City and its          
  contractors for claims arising from debris removal at the World Trade Center      
  following the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Insurance.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  The captive insurance company will provide insurance coverage exclusively for     
  the City of New York and those contractors that were paid by the City to          
  perform debris removal at the World Trade Center site. The insurance company      
  will not provide insurance coverage to any other persons or entities.             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  The grant is made available for the State of New York to insure the City of New   
  York and its debris removal contractors.                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Insurance coverage obtained with grant funds shall be available solely for the

                                                                                    
  City of New York and those contractors that were paid by the City to perform

                                                                                    
  debris removal at the World Trade Center site.

                                                                                    


                                                                               11-08
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs determined in accordance with the Consolidated Appropriations
  Resolution, 2003, Public Law 108-7 and the Conference Report accompanying
  Public Law 108-7.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Following the Presidential declaration of a major disaster for the State of New
  York for the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001, the Governor's Authorized
  Representative for the disaster made a written request for $1 billion in funding
  from FEMA to establish a captive insurance company to insure the City of New
  York and its contractors for claims arising from debris removal at the World
  Trade Center. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  With authority provided to FEMA by the Consolidated Appropriations
  Resolution, 2003, Public Law 108-7, FEMA will accept application from the
  State and City of New York for funding to establish a captive insurance
  company in the State of New York with execution of an SF-424; FEMA Forms
  20-16, 20-16A, 20-16C; Disclosure of Lobbing Activities Form LLL; and a
  grant agreement.
Award Procedure:
  With authority provided by the Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003,
  Public Law 108-7, FEMA will provide $999.9 million to establish a captive
  insurance company or other appropriate insurance mechanism to insure the City
  and its contractors for claims arising from debris removal when the State and
  City have completed the application procedure and FEMA has agreed to and
  approved all terms, conditions and scope of insurance coverage. The Grant
  Award is the maximum award for which FEMA has authority and funding.
  Absent additional authority and funding from Congress, this Grant Agreement is
  not subject to amendment for purposes of increasing the amount of the Award.
  The Award of Federal assistance in support of the Project described herein is
  effective on the date that the authorized FEMA official signs the Grant
  Agreement. Upon execution of the Grant Agreement by the Grantee, the Grantee
  affirms the Award in support of the said Project and enters into the Grant
  Agreement with FEMA.
Deadlines:
  There is no deadline for the State and City to complete the application
  procedure.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From three to four weeks.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal Share is 100% of eligible work. There is no State or local
  government matching requirement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Upon transfer of the Grant Award to the Captive through the State and City, the
  Captive will use the Award for the purposes described in the Grant Agreement,
  with attachments, for an initial period of up to 25 years from the effective date of
  the Grant Agreement and will not use the Award for any other purpose. In the
  event the Captive is unable to terminate its liabilities within the 25 year period
  because it would not be commercially reasonable or cost effective to do so, a
  request to extend the Period of Performance will be considered. An extension
  request must be supported by adequate written justification. No extension
  requests will be processed if performance and financial status reports are not
  current.
Reports:
  The Grantee shall submit to FEMA and the New York State Insurance
  Department (SID) the following reports: a) A report from the Captive 30 days
  after the Captive has reported to the Grantee, the City and the designate
  representative of the Contractors each calendar quarter of losses incurred, losses
  paid, changes in experience account balance, and changes in individual and
  aggregate case reserves and indicated reserves for losses incurred but not
  reported during the immediately preceding calendar quarter; b) The annual
  reports the Captive must submit to the Superintendent of SID (within 10 days of
  such submission); c) The annual financial statements (which shall be prepared
  no later than ninety days following the last day of each calendar year and audited
  by an independent auditor whose selection was made following 30 days notice to
  FEMA); and d) The minutes of all meetings of the Captive Board of Directors
  and Advisory Committee. The Grantee shall also report quarterly, beginning
  June 30, 2003, to the Committees on Appropriations of the U.S. Congress and
  FEMA, regarding the expenditure of and investment earnings from the Grant
  Award, utilizing information culled from the reporting requirements listed
  above. The Grantee shall submit a Financial Status Report, SF 269, within 30
  days from the end of the federal quarter that the Grantee expends the funds. The
  financial and performance reports required by this Article will also be utilized to
  satisfy the after-the-grant requirements of 44 C.F.R. Sec. 13.50. The Grantee
  shall submit required reports to FEMA at: 500 C Street SW, Washington DC
  20472. Attn: Assistance Officer, Administration and Resource Planning.
Audits:
                                                                                   1643
