  Grantee must follow the audit requirements under OMB Circular No. A-133.             
  Non-Federal entities that expend the amount listed in OMB Circular No. A-133         
  or more Federal funds in a year shall have a single or program-specific audit        
  conducted for that year in accordance with the provisions of A-133.                  
Records:                                                                               
  Records shall be retained for 3 years (except in certain rare circumstances          
  described in 44 C.F.R. Sec. 13.42) from the date the final financial status report   
  is submitted to FEMA in compliance with 44 C.F.R. Sec. 13.42. The Captive's          
  books and records shall be made available to FEMA and SEMO upon reasonable           
  notice.                                                                              
Account Identification:                                                                
  70-0702-0-1-453.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  The Consolidated Appropriations Resolution, 2003, Public Law 108-7 and the           
  accompanying Conference Report directing FEMA to fund a captive insurance            
  company or other appropriation insurance mechanism for the City of New York          
  and its debris removal contractors have no implementing regulations or               
  guidelines.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Federal Emergency Management Agency, 26 Federal Plaza, New York, N.Y.                
  10278. Telephone: (212) 680-8518.                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington,           
  DC 20528.                                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.fema.gov/rrr/pa.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  97.036, Disaster Grants - Public Assistance (Presidentially Declared Disasters).     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
97.065 HOMELAND SECURITY ADVANCED RESEARCH                                             
                                                                                       
PROJECTS AGENCY                                                                        
   (HSARPA)                                                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Title III, Section 307 and 831, Public Law 107-       
  296.                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To fund research and technology development in support of Homeland Security.         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts).                                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  HSARPA funds only project grants resulting from scientific and technical             
  proposals for basic research, applied research and technology development in         
  areas of science and technology to support homeland security research. These         
  projects will promote revolutionary changes in technologies which would              
  promote homeland security; advance the development, testing, and evaluation,         
  and deployment of critical homeland security technologies; and accelerate the        
  prototyping and deployment of technologies that would address homeland               
  security vulnerabilities. All awards made under the affiliated Small Business        
  Innovation Research Program will be restricted as required by law and                
  regulation. Funds provided for any other purpose will be specified explicitly in     
  the award document.                                                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  HSARPA performs its functions in part by awarding contracts, grants,                 
  cooperative agreements, or other transactions for prototypes or research to:         
  public or private entities, public or private nonprofit institutions/organizations,  
  businesses, profit organizations, Federally funded research and development          
  centers, universities, individuals, specialized groups, and other private            
  institutions/organizations.                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Beneficiaries are small and large businesses; public and private educational         
  institutions, and profit and non-profit entities.                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  One condition of HSARPA assistance will be acceptable professional                   
  qualifications and documented experience necessary to properly conduct the           
  research solicited in the manner proposed. Another condition of assistance may       
  be the ability of applicants to possess specified security clearances, processes     
                                                                                       
1644                                                                             11-08

  and procedures. Applicants must not appear on the nonprocurement suspended
  or debarred list. In addition, the provisions of OMB Circulars Nos. A-21, A-87,
  A-88, A-110, A-122, and A-133 must be met, as applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  There is no required preapplication coordination. Applicants may be required to
  register electronically at www.hsarpabaa.com if they wish to submit a white
  paper or proposal for an active solicitation. Instructions for registration are
  identified in the posted funding opportunity (fedbizops.com). This program is
  excluded from the coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals of grant awards are based on performance, program plan, and
  availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  As required by solicitation.
Reports:
  Refer to the program guidance or the award document for frequency of
  reporting.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0800-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,000,000; FY 08 est. not available; and FY 09 est. not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Title III, Sec. 307 and 831, Public Law 107-
  296, and information contained at http://www.dhs.gov.,
  http://www.fedbizopps.gov., and http://www.hsarpabaa.com. FAR, OMB
  Circulars No. A-102, Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local
  Governments and A-87, Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal
  Governments, A-110, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Non-Profit
  Organizations, A-21, Cost Principles for Educational Institutions and A-122,
  Cost Principles for Non-Profit Organization.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants and Financial Assistance Division, Office of Procurement Operations,
  Department of Homeland Security, Building 410, 245 Murray Lane SW.,
  Washington DC 20528. Telephone: (202) 447-5589.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov; http://www.hsarpabaa.com.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
