  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals. 
                                                                                     
97.066 HOMELAND SECURITY INFORMATION                                                 
                                                                                     
TECHNOLOGY RESEARCH, TESTING, EVALUATION                                             
AND DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM                                                            
                                                                                     
   (ITEP)

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2004, Public Law 108-

                                                                                     
  90.                                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To foster and identify novel uses of existing "state-of-the-market" information    
  technology that will remove barriers and improve information sharing and           
  integration of State and local public safety interoperability communications.      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Allowable costs will be identified in the Program Announcement. No                 
  construction will be eligible for funding. This funding may only be used to        
  supplement existing funding and not be used to supplant funding.                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Chief Executive Officers of State Administrative Agencies in each State and

  U.S. Territories or as noted in the program/opportunity announcement.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  State, U.S. Territories and local governments.                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  The applicant must complete a proposal as outlined in the solicitation             
  announcement.                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Applicants must submit applications to the Chief Executive Officers of State       
  administrative agencies. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.         
  12372 or in accordance with the F.O.A.                                             
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                    
  application/program guidance.                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.        
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the        
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula. There are no matching requirements.         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management               
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                  
Reports:                                                                             
  Categorical Assistance Progress Reports (CAPR) are due within 30 days after

                                                                                     
  the end of the reporting periods, which are June 30 and December 31, for the life

                                                                                     
  of the award. Grantees are also required to submit quarterly financial reports.

                                                                                     
  These reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April

                                                                                     
  30, July 30, and October 30. Final financial and CAPR reports are due 90 days

                                                                                     
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.

                                                                                     
Audits:

                                                                                     
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,

                                                                                     
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                     
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal   
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.      
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are    
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular  
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through     
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the      
  grantees fiscal year.                                                              
Records:                                                                             
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient 
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit,
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and     


                                                                                11-08
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0560-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 $0.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  To be determined.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  To be determined.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane Bldg. #410, Washington,
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov; http://www.usdoj.gov/odp .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
97.067 HOMELAND SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Implementing Recommendations of 9/11 Commission Act of 2007,Public Law
  110-53 and the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2008,
  Division E, Consolidated Appropriations Act 2008, Public Law 110-161.
OBJECTIVES:
  To enhance the ability of the State, local and tribal governments to prepare,
  prevent, respond to , and recover from terrorist attacks and other disasters. The
  Homeland Security Grant Program is primary funding mechanism for building
  and sustaining national preparedness capabilities. HSGP is comprised of four
  separate grant programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The HSGP is comprised of five separate grant programs: State Homeland
  Security Program (SHSP), Urban Areas Security Initiative (UASI), Law
  Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program (LETPP), Citizen Corps Program
  (CCP), and Metropolitan Medical Response System (MMRS). Funds will be
  administered by the respective State Administrative Agency (SAA). Each SAA
  shall make no less than 80 percent of the total grant program amount available to
  local units of government within 60 days of the receipt of funds.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, as defined in the Homeland Security Act of 2002, refer to means "any
  State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
  Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of
  the Northern Mariana Islands, and any possession of the United States." The
  SAA is the only agency eligible to apply for HSGP funds and is responsible for
  obligating HSGP funds to local units of government and designated recipients.
  Local units of government, as defined in the Department of Homeland Security
  Appropriations Act of 2005, refer to "any county, city, village, town, district,
  borough, port authority, transit authority, intercity rail provider, commuter rail
  system, freight rail provider, water district, regional planning commission,
  council of government, Indian tribe with jurisdiction over Indian country,
  authorized tribal organization, Alaska Native village, independent authority,
  special district, or other political subdivision of any State."
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  For specific application instructions, please refer to Appendix E, FY 2008 HSGP
  Application Requirements.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
                                                                                   1645
