  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and        
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress    
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support   
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.  
Account Identification:                                                               
  70-0560-0-1-999.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $29,100,000; FY 08 est $27,202,000; and FY 09 est $0.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Refer to program guidance.                                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Previous efforts have resulted in over 910,000 first responders receiving           
  training. Courses are designed to increase awareness of terrorism threats and       
  weapons of mass destruction among public officials, public health personnel, the    
  medical community, public safety and public works personnel; as well as             
  provide intensive technician and operations courses that demonstrate the effects    
  of and response to live agents, explosives, and radiation.                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  For regulations and guidelines please refer to the program guidance.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane, Bldg. #410, Washington,            
  DC 20528.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.dhs.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  97.067, Homeland Security Grant Program; 97.005 State and Local Homeland            
  Security Training Program; 97.007, Homeland Security Preparedness Technical         
  Assistance Program.                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Training programs targeting areas like community outreach; vulnerable               
  populations and special needs; intelligence, information sharing, and fusion        
  centers; cyber-terrorism; agriculture; regional collaboration and continuity of     
  operations planning; transit, port and infrastructure protection; rural             
  communities; law enforcement; and mass casualty.                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.  
                                                                                      
97.069 AVIATION RESEARCH GRANTS                                                       
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, P.L. 107-296, codified at 6 U.S.C. 188               
  (b)(1)(C).                                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To encourage and support innovative, advanced, and applied research and             
  development in areas of potential benefit to the long-term growth of civil          
  aviation security.                                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Use of Property, Facilities, and           
  Equipment.                                                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The grants may be used to support research and development projects at              
  colleges, universities, nonprofit and forprofit institutions in the area of System  
  Security Technology. Restrictions on use of funds will be identified in the         
  announcement, program guidance and award provisions.                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Public and private nonprofit institutions/organizations, colleges and universities, 
  State, local and Indian Tribal Governments and for-profit organizations are         
  eligible to benefit.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Public and private nonprofit institutions/organizations (colleges and               
  universities), State, local and Indian Tribal Governments and for-profit            
  organizations are eligible to benefit.                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  May be required by U.S. Statute, regulation or program guidance.                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The applicant is notified of funding availability by electronic posting on          
  http://www.grants.gov. The applicant will be advised on how to apply for the        
  funding through the funding opportunity announcement and program guidance.          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

  Review of Federal Programs".                                                        
Application Procedure:

  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                     
  application/program guidance.

Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.         
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the         


                                                                                 11-08
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Multi-year grants or cooperative agreements are available but approval is at the
  discretion of DHS.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements; however, cost-
  sharing by the grantee is highly encouraged.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
Reports:
  Frequency of interim reporting will be identified in the funding
  opportunity/program guidance document. Final financial and performance
  reports are due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantee fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0800-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $11,421,423; FY 08 $6,000,000; FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Information available at the web sites listed below.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OMB Circulars A-21, Cost Principles for Educational Institutions (relocated to 2
  CFR, Part 220); A-87, Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal
  Governments (relocated to 2 CFR, Part 225); A-102, Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements with State and Local Governments; A-110, Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Other Agreements with Institutions of Higher
  Education, Hospitals and Nonprofit Organizations (relocated to 2 CFR, Part
  215); A-122,Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations (relocated to 2 CFR,
  Part 230); and A-133, Audits of States, Local Governments and Nonprofit
  Organizations. In addition to the OMB criteria, program regulations, guidelines,
  DHS policy and procedures will also apply.
Regional or Local Office:
  Office of Procurement Operations, Grants Office, Transportation Security
  Laboratory, W. J. Hughes Technical Center, Bldg 315, Atlantic City, NJ 08405.
  International Airport, Telephone: (609) 813-2834 or (609) 813-2839. Fax: (609)
  383-1973.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
97.070 MAP MODERNIZATION MANAGEMENT SUPPORT
   (MMMS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
                                                                                     1647
