  Housing and Urban Development Act of 1968 (also known as The National                  
  Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 4101; the Housing and               
  Urban Development Act of 1969; the Flood Disaster Protection Act of 1973; as           
  amended; and National Flood Insurance Reform Act of 1994.                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To increase local involvement in, and ownership of, management of the                  
  development and maintenance of flood hazard maps produced for the National             
  Flood Insurance Program (NFIP).                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  The funds are authorized to supplement, not supplant (replace), ongoing flood          
  hazard mapping management efforts by the local, regional, or State agency.             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  All States and Commonwealths (including the District of Columbia and                   
  territories and possessions of the United States), regional agencies, and              
  communities may apply. All applicants must be communities participating and            
  in good standing in the NFIP or agencies which service participating NFIP              
  communities.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  State; local; U.S. Territory & Possession; other public institution/organization;      
  small business; engineer/architect; builder, contractor, developer; land/property      
  owner; general public.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  Proposed Business Plans must be pre-approved by the FEMA regional office and           
  all approved activities must ultimately contribute to the achievement of four          
  over-arching goals of the Map Modernization Program. Refer to program                  
  guidance document for further information.                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  Preapplication Coordination: This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.          
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should             
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or     
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in     
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.             
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                        
  application/program guidance.                                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                         
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.            
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the            
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                                  
Deadlines:

  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Refer to program guidance document.                                                    
Appeals:

  None.                                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  There are no matching requirements; however, Regional Directors shall                  
  determine individual levels of funding based upon the activities proposed and          
  the level of commitment shown in the Business Plans, and how these activities          
  will contribute toward the overall goals of map modernization. In addition             
  applicants must be legislatively, administratively, and technically capable of         
  providing proposed products or services.                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                   
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                      
Reports:                                                                                 
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.           
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.        
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July      
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days            
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                    
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    


1648                                                                               11-08

  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-5464-0-2-453.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $5,200,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In previous fiscal years, addition to the main goals of the MMMS program,
  support has been provided to staff scoping meetings, develop a web-based
  ordinance writing tool for adopting new maps, providing education for surveyors
  and engineers on the LOMC process, and the development of multi-lingual
  outreach materials.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Annual program guidance will be available to all MMMS participants and the
  general public on the FEMA website at http://www.fema.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  FEMA Regional Offices will manage all program activities under the MMMS
  initiative. See Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane - Bldg. #410, Washington,
  DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.022, Flood Insurance; 97.045, Cooperating Technical Partners.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of fundable projects include outreach efforts, coordinating mapping
  needs assessment, digital base map inventory, managing updates to national
  management information system, training efforts for State and local officials,
  coordination and effort in building partnerships, staffing, project scooping
  participation, compliance, map adoption management, management and map
  maintenance, program management planning for multiple flood mapping
  projects, hydrology and hydraulics review, DFIRM maintenance, technical
  standards agreement for state and/or local efforts, performing metrics and goals.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.071 METROPOLITAN MEDICAL RESPONSE SYSTEM
   (MMRS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 104-201, National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 1997:
  The Defense Against Weapons of Mass Destruction Act of 1996 directed the
  Secretary of Defense to enhance capability and support improvements of
  response agencies. The Nunn-Lugar-Domenici Amendment to the National
  Defense Authorization Act for FY 1997 authorized funding for "medical strike
  teams," and the subsequent development of the MMRS Program. Ongoing
  Congressional appropriations have funded contracts with 124 MMRS
  jurisdictions.
OBJECTIVES:
  The MMRS program provides funding to designated localities to assist in
  maintaining and updating plans, delivering training, purchasing equipment and
  pharmaceuticals, and conducting exercises. The mission of MMRS is to
  enhance local medical incident management's ability to coordinate and respond
  to a mass casualty event during the crucial first hours, until significant external
  resources arrive and become operational.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Refer to grant program guidance document for specific use and use restriction
  information. MMR includes functional components which are closely related to
  HRSA, CDC, and DHS programs within the medical emergency and
  preparedness funding structure.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, as defined in the Homeland Security Act of 2002, refer to means "any
  State of the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
  Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of
  the Northern Mariana Islands, and any possession of the United States." The
  SAA is the only agency eligible to apply for HSGP funds and is responsible for
  obligating HSGP funds to local units of government and designated recipients.
  Local units of government, as defined in the Department of Homeland Security
  Appropriations Act of 2005, refer to "any county, city, village, town, district,
