  borough, port authority, transit authority, intercity rail provider, commuter rail    
  system, freight rail provider, water district, regional planning commission,          
  council of government, Indian tribe with jurisdiction over Indian country,            
  authorized tribal organization, Alaska Native village, independent authority,         
  special district, or other political subdivision of any State."                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Local jurisdictions.                                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  None.                                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental            
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official       
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information    
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the   
  State has selected the program for review.                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                       
  application/program guidance.                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.           
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the           
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.

Deadlines:

  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.

                                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                   
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  No match required.

                                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                        
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management

                                                                                        
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.

                                                                                        
Reports:

                                                                                        
  Categorical Assistance Progress Reports (CAPR) and Biannual Strategy

                                                                                        
  Implementation Reports (BSIR) are due within 30 days after the end of the

                                                                                        
  reporting periods, which are June 30 and December 31, for the life of the award.

                                                                                        
  Grantees are also required to submit quarterly financial reports. These reports are

                                                                                        
  due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July 30, and

                                                                                        
  October 30. Final financial, CAPR and BSIR reports are due 90 days after the

                                                                                        
  expiration or termination of grant award.

                                                                                        
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,            
                                                                                        
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,

                                                                                        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                        
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal

                                                                                        
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.

                                                                                        
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are

                                                                                        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular

                                                                                        
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through

                                                                                        
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the         
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                 
Records:                                                                                
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient    
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-   
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and          
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year  
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress      
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support     
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.    
Account Identification:                                                                 
  70-0560-0-1-999.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $32,010,000; FY 08 est $39,831,404; and FY 09 est not available.                
  (Obligations are included in 97.067).                                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Refer to program guidance.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                        
  To be determined.

                                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                        
  For more requirements and guidance, please refer to the MMRS section of the

                                                                                        
  HSGP solicitation guidelines and application kit.                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Department of Homeland Security, Office of Grant Programs, 245 Murray Lane,           
  Bldg. #410, Washington, DC 20523. Telephone: 800-368-6498. Centralized                
  Scheduling and Information Desk (CSID) can be contacted at 1-800-368-6498,

                                                                                   11-08
  8:00 a.m. - 7:00 p.m.(Eastern Time), Monday - Friday, or askcsid@dhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.008, Urban Areas Security Initiative; 97.042, Emergency Management
  Performance Grants; 97.053, Citizen Corps; 97.073, State Homeland Security
  Program (SHSP); 97.074, Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program
  (LETPP).
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Jurisdictions that have gone above the basic requirements of standard baseline
  development, and reached their eligibility requirements for Program
  Continuation funding, are those exemplary jurisdictions that have participated in
  Special Projects. These capabilities gained range from a Mobile Field Hospital
  in Charlotte-Mecklenburg, to an Emergency Patient Tracking System in St.
  Louis. Worcester has developed a software package for emergency responder
  credentialing and incident response status. Allegheny County has developed a
  Regional Incident Support Coordination Team, and Southern Rio Grande Region
  is working on building cross-border emergency preparedness capabilities. These
  are but a few of the MMRS initiatives ongoing throughout the nation.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.072 NATIONAL EXPLOSIVES DETECTION CANINE
TEAM PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 104-264, Federal Aviation Reauthorization Act of 1996; Public Law
  107-296, Homeland Security Act of 2002, Aviation and Transportation Security
  Act.
OBJECTIVES:
  The National Explosives Detection Canine Program exists to deter and detect the
  introduction of explosives devices into the transportation system. In addition,
  bomb threats cause disruption of air, land and sea commerce and pose an
  unacceptable danger to the traveling public and should be resolved quickly.
  Explosives detection canine teams are a proven reliable resource to detect
  explosives and are a key component in a balanced counter-sabotage program.
  The use of highly trained explosives detection canine teams is also a proven
  deterrent to terrorism directed towards transportation systems and provides a
  timely and mobile response to support facilities, rail stations, airports, passenger
  terminals, seaports and surface carriers. Canine teams consist of a dog and a
  handler. There is a 3 team minimum.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Allowable costs are detailed in the terms and conditions of each Cooperative
  Agreement award.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Designated Airport Authority or State and local law enforcement agencies
  having responsibility for ensuring passenger, cargo, and commerce security.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Airports, Airlines, mass transit, passenger rail system passengers, airlines, and
  the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  TSA will contact potential participants of the program based upon established
  criteria for the specific mode of transportation. Proposals are not sought. No
  unsolicited applications are accepted. All applicants are pre-selected by TSA.
Award Procedure:
  Recipients are pre-selected based on airport/mass transit-passenger rail security
  needs. Negotiations determine the scope of the award and a cooperative
  agreement is awarded.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Every five years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
                                                                                   1649
