Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                   
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                      
Reports:                                                                                 
  Incidents and training activities are reported as they occur. Grantees are             
  required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports. Quarterly              
  "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each subgrant award. Reports           
  are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July 30, and      
  October. 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days after the         
  expiration or termination of grant award.                                              
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and           
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year   
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support      
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.     
Account Identification:                                                                  
  70-0550-0-1-400.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  FY 07 $18,980,000; FY 08 est $34,176,000; and FY 09 est $34,176,000.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  Refer to program guidance.                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  Transportation Security Administration has supported this public purpose of            
  assuring traveler and cargo safety in expanding venues for over 30 years.              
  Currently TSA works cooperatively with 79 recipients.                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  Cooperative Agreement and attachments, Standard Operating Practices and                
  Procedures, Applicable TSA Security Directives/Emergency Amendments.                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Chief, National Explosives Detection Canine Team Program Headquarters,                 
  Transportation Security Administration, 601 South 12th Street, TSA-18 Room             
  8E18S, Arlington, VA 22202.                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.tsa.gov (click Security and Law Enforcement then Canine and                 
  Explosives Program).                                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  TSA provides State and local law enforcement agencies with a comprehensive             
  10 week handler training course and a certified explosives detection canine. In        
  addition, TSA provides funding to State and local law enforcement agencies             
  through partial reimbursements ($40,000 - $50,000 per team) for services               
  provided to DHS/TSA for security of transportation systems. Teams must be              
  available to the airports/mass transit-passenger rail 80% of the time but can be       
  used to support other community security needs as well. Teams must re-certify          
  annually and are subject to unannounced evaluations.                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
                                                                                         
97.073 STATE HOMELAND SECURITY PROGRAM (SHSP)                                            
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  U.S.A. Patriot Act of 2001, Public Law 107-56.                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To build capabilities to prevent, deter, respond to, and recover from incidents of     
  terrorism at the State and local levels through planning, equipment, training, and     
  exercise activities and support the implementation of State homeland security          
  strategies and key elements of the national preparedness architecture, including       
  the National Preparedness Goal, the National Incident Management System and            
  the National Response Plan.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Formula Grants.

1650                                                                               11-08

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for planning, organization, equipment, training and exercises
  as related to the program objectives above, and will be administered by the
  respective State Administrative Agency (SAA). Each SAA shall make no less
  than 80 percent of the total grant program amount available to local units of
  government within 60 days of the receipt of funds.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, which includes any State of the United States, the District of Columbia,
  the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American
  Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any possession
  of the United States. The State Administering Agency (SAA), designated by the
  Governor to administer DHS grant funds, is the only agency eligible to apply for
  these funds and is responsible for obligating the funds to local units of
  government and other designated recipients. Local units of government and
  other designated recipients, as defined in the Conference Report accompanying
  the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2006, refers to "any
  county, city, village, town, district, borough, parish, port authority, transit
  authority, intercity rail provider, commuter rail system, freight rail provider,
  water district, regional planning commission, council of government, Indian
  tribe with jurisdiction over Indian country, authorized Tribal organization,
  Alaska Native village, independent authority, special district, or other political
  subdivision of any State."
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General Public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." Applicants should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in their State for more information on
  the process to be followed as required by the State in applying for assistance, if
  the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  An annual appropriation is anticipated for this program.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Each State will receive a minimum allocation using the U.S.A. Patriot Act
  formula. All 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico will receive
  0.75 percent of the total allocation. Four Territories (American Samoa, Guam,
  Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands) will receive a minimum
  allocation of 0.25 percent of the total allocation. The balance of the funds will be
  allocated based on the analyses of risk and anticipated effectiveness as detailed
  in the program guidance. There are no matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit an Initial Strategy Implementation Plan (ISIP)
  within 60 days of the grant award date. Categorical Assistance Progress Reports
  (CAPR) and Biannual Strategy Implementation Reports (BSIR) are required
  semi-annually. The CAPR and BSIR are due within 30 days after the end of the
  reporting period (July 30 with a reporting period of January 1 through June 30,
  and January 30 with a reporting period of July 1 through December 31) for the
  life of the award. Grantees are also required to submit quarterly Financial Status
  Reports (FSR). The FSR are due 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter
  on January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30. Final CAPR, BSIR, and FSR
  reports are due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant award,
  whichever occurs first.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
