  grantees fiscal year.                                                                 
Records:                                                                                
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient    
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-   
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and          
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year  
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress      
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support     
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.    
Account Identification:                                                                 
  70-0560-0-1-999.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $509,250,000; FY 08 est $921,500,000; and FY 09 est not                
  available. (Obligations included in 97.067).                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Refer to program guidance.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  States have completed threat, vulnerability, capabilities, and needs assessments      
  and have developed State Homeland Security Strategies. The strategies identify        
  the needs for planning, organization, equipment, training, exercises, and             
  technical assistance. OGP is working with the States to develop assistance plans      
  and identify Department of Homeland Security resources that can assist them in        
  accomplishing the goals and objectives identified in their strategies.                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  For regulations and guidelines, please refer to the SHSP section of the HSGP          
  solicitation guidance and application kit.                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Department of Homeland Security, Office of Grant Programs, 245 Murray Lane            
  - Bldg. #410, Washington, DC 20523. The Centralized Scheduling and                    
  Information Desk (CSID) can be contacted at 1-800-368-6498 or                         
  askcsid@dhs.gov. CSID hours of operation are from 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.              
  (Eastern Time), Monday through Friday.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.dhs.gov.                                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  97.074, Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program (LETPP); 97.042,                 
  Emergency Management Performance Grants; 97.008, Urban Areas Security                 
  Initiative; 97.071, Metropolitan Medical Response System; 97.053, Citizen             
  Corps.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Equipment acquisition; Costs related to the design, development, and conduct of       
  statewide chemical, biological, radiological, nuclear, and explosive (CBRNE)          
  events and cyber security training programs; and costs related to the design,         
  development, conduct, and evaluation of CBRNE and cyber security exercises.           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.    
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
97.074 LAW ENFORCEMENT TERRORISM PREVENTION

                                                                                        
PROGRAM (LETPP)                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  U.S.A. Patriot Act of 2001, Public Law 107-56.                                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  The Law Enforcement Terrorism Prevention Program (LETPP) seeks to provide             
  law enforcement communities with enhanced capabilities for detecting,                 
  deterring, disrupting, and preventing acts of terrorism. LETPP is focusing on         
  providing resources to law enforcement and public safety communities (working         
  with their private partners) to support critical terrorism prevention activities such 
  as establishing/enhancing fusion centers and collaborating with non-law               
  enforcement partners, other government agencies, and the private sector.              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Formula Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Funds may be used for planning, organization, equipment, training and                 
  exercises, as related to the program objectives, and will be administered by the      
  respective State Administrative Agency (SAA). The SAA must coordinate the             
  implementation of this program with the State's Lead Law Enforcement Agency.          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  States, which includes any State of the United States, the District of Columbia,      
  the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American              
  Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and any possession           
  of the United States. The State Administering Agency (SAA), designated by the         
  Governor to administer DHS grant funds, is the only agency eligible to apply for      
  these funds and is responsible for obligating the LETPP funds to local units of       
  government and other designated recipients. Local units of government and             


                                                                                   11-08
  other designated recipients, as defined in the Conference Report accompanying
  the Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act of 2006, refers to "any
  county, city, village, town, district, borough, parish, port authority, transit
  authority, intercity rail provider, commuter rail system, freight rail provider,
  water district, regional planning commission, council of government, Indian
  tribe with jurisdiction over Indian country, authorized Tribal organization,
  Alaska Native village, independent authority, special district, or other political
  subdivision of any State".
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments as well as U.S. Territory/Possession governmental
  units.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process to be followed as required by the State in applying for assistance,
  if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  An annual appropriation is anticipated for this program.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Each State will receive a minimum allocation using the U.S.A. Patriot Act
  formula. All 50 States, the District of Columbia, and Puerto Rico will receive
  0.75 percent of the total allocation. Four Territories (American Samoa, Guam,
  Northern Mariana Islands, and the U.S. Virgin Islands) will receive a minimum
  allocation of 0.25 percent of the total allocation. The balance of the funds will be
  allocated based on the analyses of risk and anticipated effectiveness as detailed
  in the program guidance. There are no matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit an Initial Strategy Implementation Plan (ISIP)
  within 60 days of the grant award date. Categorical Assistance Progress Reports
  (CAPR) and Biannual Strategy Implementation Reports (BSIR) are required
  semi-annually. The CAPR and BSIR are due within 30 days after the end of the
  reporting period (July 30 with a reporting period of January 1 through June 30,
  and January 30 with a reporting period of July 1 through December 31) for the
  life of the award. Grantees are also required to submit quarterly Financial Status
  Reports (FSR). The FSR are due 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter
  on January 30, April 30, July 30, and October 30. Final CAPR, BSIR, and FSR
  reports are due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant award,
  whichever occurs first.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit,
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0560-0-1-999.
Obligations:
                                                                                   1651
