  (Grants) FY 07 $363,750,000; FY 08 est not available and FY 09 est not             
  available. (included in 97.067)                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Refer to program guidance.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  States have developed State Homeland Security Strategies in accordance with        
  the National Preparedness Goal and related national priorities. These strategies   
  identify planning, organization, equipment, training, exercises, and technical     
  assistance needs. The National Preparedness Directorate continues to assist        
  states to identify and implement resources to accomplish goals and objectives      
  identified in the respective state strategies.                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  For regulations and guidelines please refer to the LETPP section of the HSGP       
  solicitation guidance and application kit.                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Department of Homeland Security/FEMA, Grant Programs Directorate, 245              
  Murray Lane Bldg. #410, Washington, DC 20531. The Centralized Scheduling           
  and Information Desk (CSID) can be contacted at 1-800-368-6498 or E-mail:          
  askcsid@dhs.gov. CSID is open from 8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (Eastern Time),          
  Monday through Friday.                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.dhs.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  97.008, Urban Areas Security Initiative; 97.042, Emergency Management              
  Performance Grants; 97.053, Citizen Corps; 97.071, Metropolitan Medical            
  Response System; 97.073, State Homeland Security Program (SHSP).                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Establish/enhance fusion centers, interoperable communications, information        
  sharing to preempt terrorist attacks; target hardening to reduce vulnerability of  
  selected high value targets, and recognition and mapping of potential or           
  developing threats.                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals. 
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
97.075 RAIL AND TRANSIT SECURITY GRANT PROGRAM                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Emergency Wartime Supplemental Appropriations Act of 2003, Public Law              
  108-11; The U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq        
  Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007, Public Law 110-28.                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To create sustainable programs for the protection of critical bus, rail and ferry  
  system infrastructure from terrorism, with special emphasis on the use of          
  explosives and non-conventional threats which would result in major loss of life   
  and severe disruption.                                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Programs included under the CFDA number are: the Transit Security Grant            
  Program (TSGP), the TSGP Intercity Passenger Rail Security Supplemental, and       
  the TSGP Ferry System Security Supplemental. Funds may be used for planning,       
  organizational activities, equipment acquisitions, training, exercises,            
  management and administrative activities, and other costs the Secretary deems      
  appropriate to support the objectives of the program. The SAA must obligate at     
  least 97 percent of the funds awarded to designated transit systems within 60      
  days of the receipt of funds. The program guidance outlines uses and               
  restrictions in detail.                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  The Governor of each State and Territory has designated a State Administrative     
  Agency (SAA) to apply for and administer funds under the TSGP. The SAA for         
  each designated transit system is the only agency eligible to apply for transit    
  mode (rail and bus transit and ferry service) funds and is responsible for         
  obligating transit mode funds to local units of government and designated          
  recipients. The SAA is responsible for obligating TSGP funds to the appropriate    
  individual transit agencies within 60 days after receipt of funds. The National    
  Passenger Railroad Corporation (Amtrak) is the only entity eligible to apply for   
  funding under the TSGP Intercity Passenger Rail Security Supplemental.             
  Agencies eligible for the TSGP Ferry System Security Supplemental were             
  identified using comprehensive, empirically grounded risk analysis modeling.       
  The risk methodology for the IPP programs is consistent across the modes and is    
  linked to the risk methodology used to determine eligibility for the core          
  Department of Homeland Security State and local grant programs. The program        
  guidance identifies the agencies eligible for funding.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Specialized group; general public.                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
                                                                                     
1652                                                                           11-08

  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process to be followed as required by the State in applying for assistance,
  if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Categorical Assistance Progress Reports (CAPR) are required semi-annually and
  are due within 30 days after the end of the reporting period (July 30 with a
  reporting period of January 1 through June 30, and January 30 with a reporting
  period of July 1 through December 31) for the life of the award. Grantees are
  also required to submit quarterly Financial Status Reports (FSR). The FSR are
  due 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter on January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30. Final CAPR and FSR reports are due 90 days after the
  expiration or termination of grant award, whichever occurs first.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit,
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0560-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $271,780,000 (which includes supplemental funding in the
  amount of $100,000,000); FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Funding provided to enhance preparedness and security for America's Transit
  Systems.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  For regulations and guidelines, please refer to the program guidance and
  application kit.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane SW, Bldg. #410,
  Washington, DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.067, Homeland Security Grant Program; 97.008, Urban Areas Security
  Initiative; 97.056, Port Security Grant Program; 97.057, Intercity Bus Security
  Grants; 97.059, Truck Security Program; 97.078, Buffer Zone Protection
  Program (BZPP).
