EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Projects addressing: protection of high risk/high consequence underwater and          
  underground rail assets; protection of other high risk/high consequence assets        
  and systems that have been identified through system-wide risk assessments; use       
  of visible, unpredictable deterrence; targeted counter-terrorism training for key     
  front-line staff; emergency preparedness drills and exercises; public awareness       
  and preparedness campaigns; and efforts in support of the national preparedness       
  architecture.                                                                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.    
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
97.076 NATIONAL CENTER FOR MISSING AND                                                  
EXPLOITED CHILDREN (NCMEC)                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act.                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To support investigative and forensics support activities related to investigations   
  of missing and exploited children, promote awareness of the child pornography         
  tip line and Project Alert; and, in conjunction with other Federal law                
  enforcement agencies, support the establishment and maintenance of a national         
  resource center and clearinghouse dedicated to missing and exploited children         
  issues.                                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  The NCMEC award is designated for a private, nonprofit organization (NPO)             
  which meets Congress's objectives and programmatic criteria for preventing the        
  abduction, abuse, and sexual exploitation of children; and/or assisting law           
  enforcement agencies in the investigation and recovery of those children.             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Designated private nonprofit institution/organization.                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  General public.                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  None.                                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                              
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                       
  application/program guidance.

Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.

  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the

                                                                                        
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                                 
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                   
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  An annual appropriation is anticipated for this program.                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                        
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management

                                                                                        
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.

                                                                                        
Reports:

                                                                                        
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.

                                                                                        
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.

                                                                                        
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July

                                                                                        
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days

                                                                                        
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.

                                                                                        
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,            
                                                                                        
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"

                                                                                        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                        
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal

                                                                                        
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.

                                                                                        
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are

                                                                                        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular

                                                                                        
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through

                                                                                        
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the

                                                                                        
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                 
Records:                                                                                
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient    
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or


                                                                                   11-08
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0404-0-1-751.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $6,000,000; FY 08 est $6,000,000; and FY 09 est $6,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Amount may vary.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The NCMEC toll-free hotline has received more than 150,000 calls from
  parents, law enforcement, prosecutors and citizens seeking assistance or asking
  for information regarding missing children issues. NCMEC has also
  disseminated thousands of publications and provided training to several hundred
  law enforcement officers and prosecutors regarding online crime against
  children and child protection issues. NCMEC's Cyber Tip Line has received over
  165,000 reports of child pornography and child sexual exploitation. NCMEC
  continues to receive hundreds of hits on their web page daily.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  For additional information on program requirements and guidance, please
  contact the headquarters office at the address listed below.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  NCMEC/ David L. Schoonover, United States Secret Service. Telephone: (202)
  406-9277, David.Schoonover@usss.dhs.gov; NCMEC and Project Alert/Tatum
  King, Immigration and Customs Enforcement. Telephone: (703) 293-8006,
  tatum.king@dhs.gov. Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane,
  Building #410, Washington, DC 20523.
Web Site Address:
  www.dhs.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  16.543, Missing Children's Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Application is reviewed by the U. S. Secret Service and subject-matter experts.
  Application is evaluated according to the program objectives and goals
  established by Congress.
97.077 HOMELAND SECURITY RESEARCH TESTING,
EVALUATION, AND DEMONSTRATION OF
TECHNOLOGIES RELATED TO NUCLEAR DETECTION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; as amended by the SAFE
  Port Act, Title V, Section 501(a), Public Law 109-347.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide funding and/or property for the purpose of conducting research,
  testing, evaluation, and demonstration of homeland security technologies related
  to nuclear detection intended to identify, counter, or respond to terrorist threats.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts); Use of Property,
  Facilities, and Equipment; Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods;
  Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Financial and nonfinancial assistance may be provided for the following:
  salaries, materials and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs,
  subcontractor and supporting costs required for technical and other activities
  necessary to achieve the objective. Restrictions on use of funds will be identified
  in the announcement, program guidance and award provisions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, local governments, private, public, profit or nonprofit organizations,
  Indian Tribal governments, or individuals specified by U.S. Appropriation
  Statute.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federal, State, and local governments, private, public, profit or nonprofit
  organizations, Indian tribal governments, and individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  May be required by the U.S. Statute, regulation, or program guidance.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
                                                                                   1653
