Award Procedure:                                                                         
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.            
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the            
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                                  
Deadlines:                                                                               
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                    
Appeals:                                                                                 
  None.                                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                                
  Contingent upon future Congressional funding. Renewal of an award to increase          
  funding or extend the period of performance is at the sole discretion of the

  Department of Homeland Security.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                         
  "Earmarked" or one-time funding amounts and any match requirements are                 
  specified in the Program or Appropriation Statute, regulation or program

  guidance, and are identified in the announcement.                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                   
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                      
Reports:                                                                                 
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.           
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.        
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July      
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days            
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                    
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and           
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year   
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support      
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.     
Account Identification:                                                                  
  70-0860-0-1-999.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  FY 07 $15,367,353; FY 08 est $11,000,000; and FY 09 est $14,000,000.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  Refer to program guidance.                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  Since FY 07, 25 grants have been awarded under the Academic Research                   
  Initiative (ARI) program to 22 different projects. It is estimated that                
  approximately 8 new awards will be made in FY 08 in addition to the 25                 
  continuation awards of the FY 07 grants. These grants provide funding to               
  support over 75 graduate students in nuclear and radiological research areas. In       
  addition, an annual ARI grantees conference is held to promote information             
  sharing and collaborations across the community. In FY 07 a total of 133               
  proposals were received under the ARI solicitation and a total of 22 projects (25      
  grants) were funded. It is estimated in FY 08 and FY 09 that 8 out of                  
  approximately 90 proposals will be funded in each fiscal year. Funding has also        
  supported basic and applied research in the radiological/nuclear detection and         
  interstate transportation security.                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  OMB Circulars Nos., A-21 Cost Principles for Educational Institutions, A-87            
  Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments, A-102 Grants           
  and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local Governments, A-110,                    
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Other Agreements with               
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Nonprofit Organizations, and A-        
  133 Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, in               
  addition to program regulations, guidelines, DHS policy and procedures.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Headquarters Office: Grants and Financial Assistance Division,Office of                
  Procurement Operations, Telephone: (202) 447-5589.                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                        
                                                                                         
1654                                                                               11-08

  http://www.dhs.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Awards made under the ARI program cover a wide range of research in nuclear
  and radiological detection. Projects include; advanced algorithms and detectors
  for used in gamma-ray imaging, nano-material applications in scintillator and
  semiconductor detectors, modeling to improve sensor management and port
  security, fieldable nuclear forensics systems for material identification, and
  measurement of fundamental nuclear data and cross-sections.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.078 BUFFER ZONE PROTECTION PROGRAM (BZPP)
   (BZPP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act.
OBJECTIVES:
  The Buffer Zone Protection Program (BZPP) provides funding for the planning,
  equipment, and management of protective actions, to support the objective of
  protecting, securing, and reducing vulnerabilities of identified critical
  infrastructure and key resource (CI/KR) sites.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  BZPP grant awards will be administered by the respective State Administrative
  Agency (SAA) and may be used for planning, equipment, and management of
  protective actions relating to the program objectives. The SAA will allocate
  program funds to the jurisdiction(s) responsible for the safety and security of the
  communities in which CI/KR sites are located. For additional information
  concerning BZPP grant award uses and restrictions, please refer to the program
  solicitation guidance.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, as defined in the Homeland Security Act of 2002, means "any State of
  the United States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,
  the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern
  Mariana Islands, and any possession of the United States." The State's SAA is
  the only agency eligible to apply for BZPP grant funds and is responsible for
  obligating BZPP grant awards to the responsible jurisdiction(s) that have
  authority over the identified CI/KR sites. The term "responsible jurisdiction" as
  used in the BZPP program guidance and application kit, refers to the primary
  agency (i.e. State, local, or tribal entity or unit of government), that has authority
  over the DHS identified CI/KA facility, the facility's curtilage, adjacent grounds,
  and/or structures.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governmental jurisdiction(s) responsible for the CI/KR sites.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process to be followed as required by the State in applying for assistance,
  if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Funding is subject to reallocation each year, and may be consolidated with other
  programs.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  For more detailed information on the funding allocation formula and criteria
  please refer to the BZPP program solicitation guidance.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
