Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  To apply for IAIP Pilot Project/ demonstration project grant funds, applicants         
  must submit an application as outlined in the program's guidance document or           
  application kit. The scope and extent of information required from applicants          
  may vary by specific project. For more detailed application requirements for           
  IAIP pilot/demonstration projects, please refer to the pertinent program               
  announcement or solicitation guidance document.                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  Depending on the type of applicant, this program may be eligible for coverage          
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An                   
  applicant who falls within the scope of this requirement should consult their

  State's designated Single Point of Contact (SPOC) for more information on the          
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State

                                                                                         
  has selected the program for review. In most cases, applicants who may fall

  within the scope of this requirement will be units or sub-agencies and entities of     
  State and local government.                                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                        
  application/program guidance.                                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                         
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.            
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the            
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                                  
Deadlines:                                                                               
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                    
Appeals:                                                                                 
  None.                                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                                
  An annual appropriation is anticipated for this program.                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  Funding amounts and match requirements are specified in the program                    
  announcement and guidance document.                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Will vary by project.                                                                  
Reports:                                                                                 
  Financial and progress reports must be submitted in compliance with OMB                
  Circular A-102 or A110. The frequency of the reports will be identified in the         
  Terms and Conditions of the award.                                                     
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and           
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year   
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support      
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.     
Account Identification:                                                                  
  70-5609-1-1-000.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  FY 07 $17,351,867; FY 08 est $4,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  As specified in the program announcement.                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  None.                                                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  OMB Circulars, A-21 Cost Principles for Educational Institutions, A-87 Cost            
  Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments, A-102 Grants and            
  Cooperative Agreements with Stat, and Local Governments, A-110, Uniform                
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Other Agreements with Institutions          
  of Higher Education, Hospitals and Non-Profit Organizations, and A-133 Audits          
  of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, in addition to             
  program regulations, guidelines, DHS policy and procedure.                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Grants and Financial Assistance Division, Office of Procurement Operations,            


1656                                                                               11-08

  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane, Bldg 410, Washington,
  DC 20528; Telephone: (202) 447-5589.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Earmark or as identified in the program guidance document.
97.081 LAW ENFORCEMENT TRAINING AND
TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act, 2004, Public Law 108-
  90, Title IV, 117 Stat. 1151, (codified at 6 U.S.C. 464d), and Omnibus Crime
  Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968, Public Law 90-351; 82 Stat. 197 as
  amended, (codified at 42 U.S.C. 3771).
OBJECTIVES:
  The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center's (FLETC's) primary objective is
  to provide training to Federal law enforcement agencies; however, advanced and
  specialized training is also provided to State, local, tribal, and campus law
  enforcement agencies. FLETC's programs provide participants with specific
  investigative skills and techniques in a wide variety of topical areas to improve
  law enforcement agencies' enforcement capabilities. Many of FLETC's
  advanced and specialized training programs are exported to select sites
  throughout the country. Additionally, FLETC provides technical assistance to
  agencies upon request.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Provision of Specialized Services; Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Appropriated funds for State and local law enforcement training and technical
  assistance are used to subsidize (either partially or wholly) the costs of State,
  local, campus, and tribal participants attending specialized or advanced training
  programs offered by FLETC; or, to provide technical assistance to those law
  enforcement agencies.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicant Eligibility: State, local, tribal, and campus law enforcement; fire and
  emergency management specialists; prosecutors and attorneys; domestic
  violence advocates may also be eligible for participation. Applicants from
  private organizations must be sponsored by a law enforcement/public safety
  agency as described in this paragraph. To determine specific candidate
  eligibility and prerequisites for attendance, please refer to the contact and
  website information below.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Trainees from State, local, tribal and campus law enforcement/public safety
  agencies in the United States and U.S. Territories.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Varies by individual program. Restricted to sworn and non-sworn personnel
  from State, local, campus, and tribal law enforcement agencies; fire and
  emergency management specialists, prosecutors, and/or domestic violence
  advocates sponsored by a law enforcement agency or prosecutor's office.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application forms and contact information for specialized and advanced training
  programs are available via the web site listed below. Technical assistance
  requests from State, local, campus, and tribal agencies must be submitted, in
  writing, on the agency's official letterhead addressed to the Deputy Assistant
  Director, Office of State and Local Training, Federal Law Enforcement Training
  Center, at the address listed below.
Award Procedure:
  Training allocations for attendees from State, local, campus, and tribal law
  enforcement agencies, will be distributed based upon availability of training
  slots, date of application, and/or geographic disbursement. A confirmation
  notice with details of the training will be provided via e-mail or letter, upon the
  applicant's acceptance into a training class. Requests for technical assistance
  will be considered on a case-by-case basis; approval is contingent upon the
  circumstance surrounding the request, funding availability, and FLETC
  resources.
Deadlines:
  Varies by training program. Applicants are responsible for ascertaining and
  responding to the respective deadline(s) pertaining to the course for which they
  are applying. Applicants should contact FLETC either by e-mail or call the toll
  free number listed below, for application deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Registration requests for FLETC training programs are generally accepted or
