  denied within 30 - 60 days prior to the training program start date.                
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  An annual appropriation is anticipated for this program.                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Training and technical assistance is available for up to a 12-month period          
  beginning October 1 - September 30.                                                 
Reports:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  None.                                                                               
Records:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  70-0509-0-1-751.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Travel, Support, Materials and Services) FY 07 $1,155,000; FY 08 est               
  $1,155,000; and FY 09 est $1,155,000.                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Assistance will vary depending upon the scope and objectives of each training       
  program or technical assistance provided. Financial assistance may be provided      
  to eligible student trainees, on a case-by-case basis, to wholly or partially offset
  the cost of attending training. The most common form of financial assistance is a   
  subsidy to reduce, or in some cases eliminate, the attendee's tuition cost.         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Each year FLETC delivers basic, advanced and specialized training to Federal        
  law enforcement agencies at primary and field training facilities, as well as       
  annually trains approximately 3000 State, local, tribal and campus law              
  enforcement officers in the U.S. Many of these programs are offered at              
  subsidized or no cost. Additionally, technical assistance such as: curriculum       
  development/review; evaluation site visits to State and local law enforcement       
  agencies, and law enforcement training academies, are provided upon request.        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Training program descriptions and related literature are available by contacting    
  FLETC at the address listed below.                                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Federal Law Enforcement Training Center, Office of State and Local Training,        
  1131 Chapel Crossing Road, Townhouse 393, Glynco, GA 31524. Toll Free               
  Telephone: (1-800) 74FLETC; Fax: (912) 267-2894; or E-mail:                         
  stateandlocaltraining@dhs.gov.                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.fletc.gov/osl .                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  16.737, Gang Resistance Education and Training.                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Advanced and specialized law enforcement training and technical assistance.         
  FLETC delivers basic, advanced and specialized training at its headquarters         
  facility in Glynco, Georgia, and field training facilities at other locations in the
  U.S. Training classes on: domestic violence, drug enforcement, first responder,     
  domestic terrorism, intelligence analyst and awareness, driver and marine           
  operators courses, forensic computer evidence recovery, etc. are provided to        
  qualified student trainees. FLETC also provides technical assistance/expertise on   
  law enforcement training and curriculum development to State, local, campus,        
  and tribal law enforcement agencies.                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Training allocations for applicants from State, local, campus, and tribal law       
  enforcement agencies, are contingent upon available student training slots, date    
  of application, and/or geographic disbursement. Applicants must meet all            
  eligibility requirements pertaining to the specific training program for which      
  they are applying. FLETC will review the circumstances and scope of technical       
  assistance requests on a case-by case basis; approval is contingent upon            
  available funding and FLETC resources.                                              
                                                                                      
97.082 EARTHQUAKE CONSORTIUM                                                          
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977, as amended.                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Earthquake Hazards Reduction Act of 1977, as amended, directs the Federal       
  Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) to operate a program of grants and               
  assistance to enable States to develop mitigation, preparedness and response        
  plans, prepare inventories and conduct seismic safety inspection of critical        
  structures and lifelines, update building and zoning codes and ordinances to        
  enhance seismic safety, increase earthquake awareness and education, and            
                                                                                 11-08
  encourage the development of multi-State groups for such purposes.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  This program is non-competitive and restricted to certain specialized/qualified
  organizations designated by (FEMA). Project grants (cooperative agreements)
  enable the consortia to engage in earthquake mitigation activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Nonprofit Organizations designated by FEMA. The program is currently
  restricted to the following entities and organizations: Central US Earthquake
  Consortium, Western States Seismic Policy Council, Northeast States
  Emergency Consortium, and Cascadia Region Earthquake Workgroup.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, locals, tribes, U.S. Territories, and general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  See 44 CFR, Part 13 for requirements. This program must follow requirements
  included in OMB Circulars A-110 and A-122.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Cooperative agreements may be renewed annually, but will be awarded as new
  cooperative agreements.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit,
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0711-0-1-453.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $925,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09
  est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  These consortia contribute to FEMA's mitigation goals of reducing deaths,
  injuries, damage to property and economic losses resulting from earthquakes.
  They work directly with public, private, professional, and research agencies and
  organizations that ultimately implement earthquake risk reduction programs
  (e.g., building code administrators, urban planners, elected officials, utility
  professionals, etc.). The consortium serves as a bridge between the Federal
  NEHRP agencies, and the organizations and individuals at the State and local
                                                                                   1657
