  level that translate policies into practice.                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  44 CFR, Part 361, National Earthquake Hazards Reduction Assistance to State            
  and Local Governments and annual memorandum guidance issued by the FEMA                
  Federal Insurance and Mitigation Directorate.                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane SW, Bldg 410 Washington               
  DC, 20528.                                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  www.FEMA.gov.                                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  These multi-State groups have delivered education and training to community            
  and State officials to develop seismic policies and share information to promote       
  programs intended to reduce earthquake-related losses; and reduce the risk of          
  loss of life, injuries, property losses and social and economic disruption that        
  result from all hazards.                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  Not applicable.                                                                        
                                                                                         
97.083 STAFFING FOR ADEQUATE FIRE AND                                                    
                                                                                         
EMERGENCY RESPONSE (SAFER)                                                               
   (SAFER ACT)                                                                           
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  15 U.S.C. 2229a, FY 2005 Homeland Security Appropriation Act.                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To increase the number of firefighters in local communities and to help them           
  meet industry minimum standards and attain 24/7 staffing for adequate                  
  protection against fire and fire-related hazards, and fulfill related roles associated 
  with fire departments.                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Not all fire departments will be eligible to apply. Training, equipment, over-         
  time, and administrative expenses are not eligible. Individuals seeking personal       
  assistance are not eligible. This program is intended to assist fire departments       
  and recognized organizations as identified in the program guidance document            
  and application package; and only those fire departments and organizations as          
  specified in the program guidance, are eligible. Funds may be used to recruit,         
  hire, and retain firefighters, but cannot supplant (replace) the applicants funds      
  budgeted for that purpose. Recipients of funds for hiring of new firefighters          
  must commit to maintaining their pre-existing (pre-grant) staffing level, and          
  retaining personnel hired with grant funds, for at least one (1) year beyond the       
  end of the four (4)-year grant period. Thus, recipients must maintain pre-             
  existing staffing levels and retain grant funded personnel throughout the five         
  year period of performance. Grant funds are provided on a sliding scale,               
  recipients must initially match 10% of the Federal share the first year. Recipient     
  match increases by certain percentages in the second, third, and fourth years,         
  culminating in 100% of personnel costs (per position), in the fifth year and           
  beyond. Refer to the program guidance for further information.                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  This program is restricted to the jurisdictions/organizations described in the         
  program guidance. For specific information, refer to the program guidance. In          
  summary, for the purpose of this program, "State" is defined as the fifty States,      
  the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American         
  Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. The Alaska                
  Village Initiative, a nonprofit organization incorporated in the State of Alaska,      
  shall also be considered eligible for purposes of receiving assistance under this      
  program on behalf of Alaska Native villages. A "fire department" is defined as         
  an agency or organization that has a formally recognized arrangement with a            
  State, territory, local, or tribal authority (city, county, parish, fire district,     
  township, town, or other governing body) to provide fire suppression on a first-       
  due basis to a population within a fixed geographical area. Fire departments may       
  be comprised of members who are all volunteer, combination volunteer/career,           
  or all career.                                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  Local or tribal communities serviced by the fire department including, local           
  businesses, homeowners and property owners.                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  Applicant must certify that they are an eligible applicant, i.e., a fire department,   
  as described in the program guidance. Refer to program guidance document for           
  specific information.                                                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             


1658                                                                               11-08

  Depending on the type of applicant, this program may or may not be excluded
  from E.O. 12372 ("Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs").
  Applicants should consult the office or official designated as the single point of
  contact in his/her State for more information on the process the State requires to
  be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for
  review.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are peer reviewed and subsequently also reviewed by DHS
  program and administrative staff. Any issues or concerns noted in the
  application will be negotiated with the successful applicant prior to the award
  being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  Applicants that receive an adverse decision or denial, can request
  reconsideration of the decision. Request for reconsideration must be submitted
  in writing, to the address contained on the program's website within 30 days of
  the notification of denial by the administering program office.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Any hiring grant made under this program has a match requirement. Refer to
  program guidance document for hiring grant match percentages in the first
  through and including the fifth year; recipient's match percentages increase each
  year. The recruitment and retention grants do not have any local match
  requirements. Refer to program guidance document for specific information.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The hiring grants have a five-year performance period. The recruitment and
  retention grants are made in one-year increments up to a possible four-year
  period of performance. Refer to program guidance for further details. Awards
  are subject to the Cash Management Improvement Act for payment and/or
  reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  The quarters are designated to be the three-month increments from the award
  date. Reports are due within 30 days after the end of each quarter. Final
  financial and performance reports are due 90 days after the expiration or
  termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit,
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0561-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  Grants) FY 07 $95,794,097; FY 08 est. $180,500,000; and FY 09 est. not
  available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance document.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since the authorization of SAFER grants at the start of FY 2005, the hiring of
  over 2,300 firefighters has been supported under the first three years of grant
  awards.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  U.S.C. 2201 et seq.; Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974.
Regional or Local Office:
  SAFER grants are directed from the FEMA Headquarters Office. There are 10
  regional offices in FEMA.
Headquarters Office:
