Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  There is no preapplication form required under this program. This program is       
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applications submitted by facsimile or e-mail will not be accepted. Only eligible  
  claimants may apply and only one application for each claimant may be              
  submitted. An application must be submitted on the 9/11 Heroes Stamp Act of        
  2001 Eligibility and Application for Benefits form (FEMA Form 75-14, OMB           
  No. 1660-0091). Refer to the interim rule and the 9/11 Heroes Stamp Act of         
  2001 Eligibility and Application for Benefits form for specific information about  
  the application process and supporting documents which must accompany the          
  application. The application may be downloaded from the following website:         
  http://www.usfa.fema.gov. FEMA will review applications to determine               
  eligibility and will furnish each applicant with a copy of the decision pertaining 
  to their application. Application forms and supporting documents must be sent      
  to Heroes Stamp, USFA, NETC, 16825 South Seton Avenue, Emmitsburg, MD              
  21727. An application is deemed filed on the date it is received by FEMA.          
Award Procedure:

  FEMA will not distribute funds until FEMA has made eligibility determinations      
  on all applications. FEMA retains sole discretion as to the amount of assistance

                                                                                     
  granted under the Act and will distribute funds equally, to the extent feasible,

  among eligible claimants until the fund has been liquidated. FEMA will not         
  differentiate award amounts between eligible claimants who were killed, or those   
  who were permanently physically disabled. Additional information concerning        
  the award procedure can be obtained from the interim final rule, see 70 FR         
  43214, July 26, 2005.                                                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  The application period will be open for 120 days from the date the notice is       
  published in the Federal Register. For information pertaining to application       
  deadlines contact: Heroes Stamp, USFA, NETC, 16825 South Seton Avenue,             
  Emmitsburg, MD 21727; Telephone: (866) 887-9107, or email FEMA-                    
  HeroesStamp@dhs.gov.                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Will vary with each application.                                                   
Appeals:                                                                             
  An applicant may appeal an adverse eligibility determination by FEMA.              
  Facsimile or e-mail submissions will not be accepted; appeals and supporting       
  documentation must be submitted by mail. There is a 15 day window for filing       
  the notice of intent to appeal and a 60-day window for filing the actual appeal.   
  Refer to the interim rule and the 9/11 Heroes Stamp Act of 2001 Eligibility and    
  Application for Benefits form for further information. FEMA's decision             
  concerning an award amount is final; award amounts are excluded from the           
  appeal process and cannot be contested.                                            
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  FEMA will not distribute funds until an eligibility determination has been made    
  on all applications. FEMA will distribute funds equally, to the extent feasible,   
  among eligible claimants until the fund has been liquidated with no distinction    
  in the award amount between eligible claimants who were killed or those who        
  were permanently physically disabled. FEMA may make additional distribution        
  to eligible claimants once all appeals have been settled.                          
Reports:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  None.                                                                              
Records:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Account Identification:                                                              
  70-8244-0-7-453.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; FY 09 est not available.                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Approximately $10,000 for each eligible claimant. Final amounts to be paid can     
  be ascertained only after the total number of eligible claims has been             
  determined.                                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  New program. It is anticipated that the funds derived from the sales of Hero       
  semipostal stamps will be awarded to the personal representatives of the           
  emergency relief personnel killed or those permanently physically disabled in the  
  line of duty, as a result of the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks against the  
  United States, at the World Trade Center, the Pentagon, or Shanksville,            
  Pennsylvania.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Section 652 of Public Law 107-67, 115 Stat. 514; 42 U.S.C. 2218(b)(5), 5           
  U.S.C. 301, 6 U.S.C. 112(a)(3) & (b)(1), 44 CFR Part 153.                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              


1660                                                                           11-08

Headquarters Office:
  Hero Stamp Program, USFA, NETC, 16825 South Seton Avenue, Emmitsburg,
  MD 21727. Telephone: (866) 887-9107, or send email to FEMA-
  HeroesStamp@dhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.usfa.fema.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  USFA/FEMA will review the submitted applications and supporting
  documentation to ensure eligibility requirements have been met. Information
  concerning an applicant's eligibility, application process, and selection criteria,
  has been partially summarized in this CFDA program description. Complete,
  detailed, information may be found in the interim rule and the 9/11 Heroes
  Stamp Act of 2001 Eligibility and Application for Benefits form.
97.086 HOMELAND SECURITY OUTREACH, EDUCATION,
AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)
AUTHORIZATION:
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296, 6 U.S.C. 101 et. seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide funding for outreach, education, and technical assistance in order to
  raise public awareness of homeland security issues and to work with
  communities to help them forge partnerships across agencies and disciplines to
  address preparedness and response. Outreach and technical assistance may take
  several forms, such as the provision of written information, person-to-person
  exchange, seminars, workshops or training sessions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts); Dissemination of
  Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Financial and nonfinancial assistance may be provided for the following:
  salaries, materials and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs,
  subcontractor and supporting costs required for technical and other activities
  necessary to achieve the objective. Restrictions on use of funds will be identified
  in the funding opportunity announcement and award provisions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  In general, States, local governments, institutions of high education, private,
  public, profit or nonprofit organizations, Indian Tribal governments, or
  individuals specified by U.S. Appropriation Statute. Specific applicant eligibility
  will be identified in the funding opportunity announcement and program
  guidance.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federal, State, and local governments, private, public, profit or nonprofit
  organizations, Indian tribal governments, and individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  May be required by the U.S. Statute, regulation, or program guidance.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The applicant is notified of funding availability through letter, electronic mail
  communication, or electronic posting on www.Grants.gov. The applicant will be
  advised on how to apply for the funding through the funding opportunity
  announcement and program guidance. The funding opportunity announcement
  will identify if the program is subject to Executive Order 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  "Earmarked" or one-time funding amounts and any match requirements are
  specified in the Program or Appropriation Statute, regulation or program
  guidance, and are identified in the funding opportunity announcement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
