  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                     
Reports:                                                                                
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.          
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.       
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July     
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days           
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                   
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,            
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"            
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal      
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.         
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are       
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular     
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through        
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the         
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                 
Records:                                                                                
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient    
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-   
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and          
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year  
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress      
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support     
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.    
Account Identification:                                                                 
  70-0800-0-1-999.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $2,345,746; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Refer to program guidance.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  OMB Circulars Nos., A-21 Cost Principles for Educational Institutions, A-87           
  Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments, A-102 Grants          
  and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local Governments, A-110,                   
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Other Agreements with              
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Nonprofit Organizations, and A-       
  133 Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, in              
  addition to program regulations, guidelines, DHS policy and procedures.               
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Headquarters Office: Marilyn Morgan, Director, Grants and Financial                   
  Assistance Division, Office of Procurement Operations, Office of the Chief            
  Procurement Officer. Telephone: (202) 447-5689.                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  www.dhs.gov.                                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.    
                                                                                        
97.087 ALTERNATIVE HOUSING PILOT PROGRAM                                                
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act for Defense, the Global War on              
  Terror, and Hurricane Recovery, Public Law 109-234.                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  Evaluate the efficacy of non-traditional short and intermediate-term housing          
  alternatives for potential future use in a catastrophic disaster environment.         
  Identify, develop and evaluate alternatives to and alternative forms of FEMA          
  Disaster Housing to assist victims of the 2005 hurricanes in the Gulf Coast.          
  Consider the feasibility of these options as part of the standard package of          
  housing assistance that could be made available by Federal government agencies        
  or State agencies for other disasters of various sizes, locations and impacts.        
  Assure that pilot projects address the needs of a variety of populations, such as     
  persons with disabilities and the elderly, historically underserved populations as    
  well as renters, homeowners, single-family dwelling occupants and multi-family        
  dwelling occupants.                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Program restricted to the State agency designated by the governor to apply and

                                                                                   11-08
  administer funds. The Alternative Housing Pilot Program funds will be used to
  fund pilot housing projects in the Gulf Coast Region. Projects funded by this
  pilot program, should be alternatives to and alternative forms of FEMA Disaster
  Housing projects.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Restricted to eligible States from the Gulf Coast States affected by Hurricane
  Katrina (Alabama, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas). Refer to
  program guidance document for additional information.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals/families.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Section 102 (2) (C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, Public
  Law 91-190, 42 U.S.C. 4332 (2) (C), Executive Order 11514 (34 FR 4247) of
  March 4, 1970, 44 CFR part 9, Floodplain Management and Protection of
  Wetlands, 44 CFR part 10, Environmental Considerations, the National Historic
  Preservation Act, and Executive Order 11988 requires environmental and
  historic preservation impact statements to be prepared for certain projects
  funded under various Federal programs as a prerequisite to a grant/project
  award. In the event construction is anticipated as one of the project activities, an
  environmental and historic preservation impact statement or assessment may be
  required. This program may or may not be eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Program. An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  At its discretion, FEMA may review a decision regarding a proposal that does
  not meet the Alternative Housing Pilot program's requirements only where there
  is an indication of material, technical, or procedural error that may have
  influenced FEMA's decision. Refer to program guidance for further information.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days
  after the expiration or termination of grant award. In addition, the Department of
  Housing and Urban Development (HUD) will be conducting an evaluation of the
  alternative housing pilot projects. Applicants should respond to reporting
  requests from HUD and anticipate a requirement for reporting costs, production,
  installation, location, resident information, and community information as part
  of these reports.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
                                                                                     1661
