  include: planning and equipment.                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  The issuing authority for motor vehicle licenses in each State or territory, as      
  identified by the DHS, is the only agency eligible to apply for the Real ID Grant    
  funds.                                                                               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State, U.S. Territory and local governments, intrastate, interstate, small business, 
  general public, other public institution/organizations.                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  If required, will be identified in the program guidance/solicitation.                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372 Intergovernmental             
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official       
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Unsolicited applications from entities other than those listed in the "Applicant     
  Eligibility" above, will not be accepted. Eligible applicants must apply on-line

  using Grants.gov. The REAL ID Grant Program application process will require:        
  Narrative to include a description of current resource management capabilities to

                                                                                       
  develop, implement, and manage the programmatic requirements associated with

  REAL ID funding; a proposed work plan; a budget and budget narrative                 
  addressing REAL ID project related costs and expenses. Applications submitted        
  online must contain information and meet the requirements outlined in the Real       
  ID solicitation and program guidance.                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff,          
  concerns negotiated with the applicant, and award processed.                         
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Application deadlines will be specified in the solicitation.                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  The program and administrative office will evaluate applications and award           
  funds within 60 days of receipt of applications.                                     
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The period of performance for Real ID Grants is 12 months.                           
Reports:                                                                               
  Progress Reports are due semi-annually within 30 days after the end of the           
  reporting periods. Reports are due: July 30 and January 30. The Final Progress       
  Report is due 90 days after the expiration date of the award period. These reports   
  should consist of a brief narrative discussing achievements to date, and progress    
  towards annual goals, and any issues which may need to be addressed. Required        
  Financial Status Reports (SF 269A) are due quarterly after the end of the            
  reporting period. Reports are due: April 30, July 30, October 30, and January        
  30. The Final Financial Report is due 90 days after the expiration date of the       
  award period.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,           
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"           
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for          
  thatyear. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency no later     
  than 9 months after the end of the grantees fiscal year.                             
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other          
  records pertinent to a grant shall be retained for a period of at least 3 years after
  the grant has been closed or until an audit has been conducted that does not         
  show any questionable costs.                                                         
Account Identification:                                                                
  70-0560-0-1-999.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $31,300,000; FY 08 est $50,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Will be identified in the solicitation/program guidance.                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  None. This is a new program and it is anticipated that recipients will               
  demonstrate viable projects related to integrating hardware, software, and           
  information management systems to assist with the implementation of the              
  national standards for drivers' licenses.                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  OMB Circulars Nos., A-87 Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal          
  Governments, A-102 Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local            
                                                                                       


                                                                                  11-08
  Governments, and A-133 Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations, in addition to program regulations, guidelines, DHS policy and
  procedures.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, FEMA, C/O 245 Murray Lane, Bldg # 410,
  Washington, DC 20523. The Centralized Scheduling and Information Desk
  (CSID) can be contacted at 1-800-368-6498 or askcsid@dhs.gov. CSID hours:
  8:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. (EST), Monday - Friday.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Will be identified in the solicitation/program guidance.
97.090 LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICER
REIMBURSEMENT AGREEMENT PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  6 U.S.C. 203; 49 U.S.C. 106(m) and 114(m); 49 U.S.C. 114(g), 44901(g),
  44903(e) and 44922(f).
OBJECTIVES:
  To support deployment of local law enforcement officers at airport screening
  checkpoints in accordance with C.F.R. 1542.215 and 217.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Restricted to state, local, or other public institution/organizations responsible for
  commercial airport operations within their jurisdiction. Airports are partially
  reimbursed for the costs of local law enforcement officers deployed to airport
  passenger screening checkpoints. Refer to program guidance document or
  contact the administering program office for specific information.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State, local, or other public institution/organizations responsible for commercial
  airport operations within their jurisdiction, as specified in U.S. statute or TSA
  program guidance document and regulations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The airport operator contacts the Federal Security Director (FSD) responsible for
  their airport to request a cooperative agreement. The FSD gathers information
  from the airport, and local law enforcement agencies, regarding passenger
  checkpoint staffing, flexible response time, checkpoint hours, number and size
  of checkpoints, current hourly rate of officers, existing resources, and other
  factors that could help determine the need for financial assistance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Not applicable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no matching requirements. However, reimbursement to
  airports for local law enforcement services is based on guidelines and factors
  specified in the appropriation or authorizing statute and TSA regulations.
  Contact the administering TSA program office for specific information.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Refer to program guidance.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
                                                                                    1663
