  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and           
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year   
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support      
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.     
Account Identification:                                                                  
  70-0550-0-1-402.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  FY 07 $66,216,332; FY 08 est $65,027,814; and FY 09 est 65,027,814.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  Varies by airport and checkpoint operation hours, geographical location, and           
  other factors.                                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  More than 350 agreements have been executed with U.S. commercial airports to           
  support deployment of local law enforcement officers to passenger screening            
  checkpoints.                                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  Cooperative Agreement, Standard Operating Practices and Procedures,                    
  Applicable TSA Security Directives/Emergency Amendments.                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration,               
  LEO RA Program Manager, TSA-18 E-8 206S, 601 S. 12th Street, Arlington,                
  VA 22203. Telephone: (571) 227-1532.                                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  www.tsa.gov.                                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.     
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
97.091 HOMELAND SECURITY BIOWATCH PROGRAM                                                
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296, Title 6, U.S.C. Section             
  308(b)(1)(c).                                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To provide funding and/or property for the conduct of operations and other             
  related activities intended to identify, counter, or respond to biological and         
  chemical threats.                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts); Use of Property,                 
  Facilities, and Equipment; Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods;          
  Dissemination of Technical Information.                                                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Financial and nonfinancial assistance may be provided for the following:               
  salaries, materials and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs,                
  subcontractor and supporting costs required for technical and other activities         
  necessary to achieve the objective. Restrictions on use of funds will be               
  identified in the funding opportunity announcement, program guidance, and

  award provisions.                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

  Generally, State and local governments or as specified by U.S. Appropriation           
  Statute. Specific applicant eligibility will be identified in the funding

  opportunity announcement and program guidance.                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  State and local governments.                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  May be required by the U.S. Statute, regulation, or program guidance.                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                               
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  An application (SF-424, Budget, program or project narrative and assurances)           
  must be submitted that outlines the implementation of the project and                  
  expenditure of funds in response to the project identified through the                 


1664                                                                               11-08

  announcement.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff,
  concerns negotiated with the applicant, and award processed.
Deadlines:
  Application deadlines are specified in the announcement of funds availability.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range of approval depends on the type of project to be funded.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Contingent upon future Congressional funding. Renewal of an award to increase
  funding or extend the period of performance is at the sole discretion of the
  Department of Homeland Security.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Match requirements, if any, are specified in the Program or Appropriation
  Statute, regulation or program guidance, and are identified in the announcement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Specified in the funding opportunity announcement.
Reports:
  Financial and progress reports must be submitted in compliance with OMB
  Circular A-102 or A-110. The frequency of the reports will be identified in the
  "Terms and Conditions" of the award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records, supporting documentation and all other records to validate the
  performance of the grant or cooperative agreement must be retained for 3 years
  from the date the final financial status report is submitted to the DHS.
Account Identification:
  70-0800-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $14,819,275; FY 08 est $21,000,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Specified in the announcement.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OMB Circulars Nos., A-21 Cost Principles for Educational Institutions, A-87
  Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments, A-102 Grants
  and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local Governments, A-110,
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Other Agreements with
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Nonprofit Organizations, and A-
  133 Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, in
  addition to program regulations, guidelines, DHS policy and procedures.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  CDR Dan Yereb, Early Detection Division, Office of Health Affairs Department
  of Homeland Security, Telephone: (202) 254-6712.
Web Site Address:
  www.dhs.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Earmark or as identified in the funding opportunity announcement or program
  guidance.
97.092 REPETITIVE FLOOD CLAIMS
   (RFC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended. Bunning - Bereuter -
  Blumenauer Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2004, Title I, Section 104, Public
  Law 108-264.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist States, Indian tribal governments, and communities to reduce or
  eliminate the long - term risk of flood damage to structures insured under the
  National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP)that have had one or more claims for
  flood damages through mitigation activities that are in the best interest of the
