  National Flood Insurance Fund (NFIF).                                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  States, Indian tribal governments, and communities may apply for RFC project           
  grants for activities that reduce or eliminate the long - term risk of flood damage    
  to structures, insured under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), that         
  have had one or more claims for flood damages. This may include the                    
  acquisition of insured structures for the purpose of converting flood-prone land       
  back to open space use; elevation of existing structures; dry floodproofing; and       
  minor localized flood reduction projects.                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  State emergency management agencies or a similar office (i.e., the office that         
  has primary emergency management or floodplain management responsibility)              
  of the State; the District of Columbia; the U.S. Virgin Islands; the                   
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico; American Samoa; the Commonwealth of the                   
  Northern Mariana Islands; and Federally - recognized Indian tribal governments.        
   Specific information on sub-applicant eligibility, and application procedures for     
  Federally-recognized Indian tribal governments, is provided on the SRL program         
  guidance.                                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                 
  States, communities, and land/property owners.                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                               
  Grant awards will be determined in accordance with OMB Circulars No. A-102             
  and No. A-87 for State and local governments. Awards made to Institutions of           
  Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Non-Profit Organizations will be

  required to follow the requirements of OMB Circulars No. A-110 and No. A-21.           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or officials       
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information     
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the    
  State has selected the program for review.                                             
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                        
  application/program guidance.                                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                         
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.            
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the            
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                                  
Deadlines:                                                                               
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                    
Appeals:                                                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Renewals:                                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  This program has no statutory formula.                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                   
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                      
Reports:                                                                                 
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.           
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.          
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July      
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days            
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                    
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
                                                                                         
Records:

                                                                                         
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient

                                                                                         
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or

                                                                                         
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-

                                                                                         
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and

                                                                                         
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year

                                                                                         
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress

                                                                                         
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support

                                                                                         
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.

                                                                                         
Account Identification:                                                                  


                                                                                   11-08 
  70-4236-0-3-453.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $6,807,540; FY 08 $10,000,000 and FY 09 est $10,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In the prior fiscal years the program has funded more than $19 million in
  mitigation projects.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a listing of addresses of FEMA's Regional
  Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Lane Building #410,
  Washington, DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.029, Flood Mitigation Assistance; 97.017, Pre-Disaster Mitigation (PDM)
  Competitive Grants; 97.039, Hazard Mitigation Grant.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.093 FIRE SERVICE HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)
AUTHORIZATION:
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; U.S.A. Patriot Act of
  2001, Public Law 107-56; Federal Emergency Management Agency, Executive
  Order 12127; The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended,
  and various appropriation bills.
OBJECTIVES:
  Provide information to the fire and emergency services community, emergency
  managers, and other local government officials concerning issues related to the
  planning, mitigation, prevention, and response to hazardous materials incidents
  which includes acts of terrorism.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Restricted to recipient designated by Congressional Statue or DHS, and limited
  in scope to the project description for the purpose of information sharing related
  to Hazardous Materials and acts of terrorism. Refer to project description or
  administering program office for specific information. Unsolicited applications
  for this program will not be accepted.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Designated Private nonprofit institution/organization.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Requests for grant extensions must be adequately justified, and can only be
  authorized in writing by the DHS/U.S. Fire Administration Procurement Officer
  with the concurrence of the U.S. Fire Administration program office.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
                                                                                 1665
