  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations; OMB Circular A-21: Cost             
  Principles for Educational Institutions; OMB Circular A-122: Cost Principles for  
  Nonprofit Organizations.                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Drive SW, Bldg.                        
  #410,Washington, DC 20528.                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.fema.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Not applicable.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
  Only a single proposal from each of the 10 regions will be accepted for review.   
                                                                                    
97.095 SAFE KIDS WORLDWIDE                                                          
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; U.S.A. Patriot Act of          
  2001, Public Law 107-56; Federal Emergency Management Agency, Executive           
  Order 12127; The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended,     
  and various appropriation bills.                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  Provide financial assistance to reduce fire deaths and injuries among children    
  under the age 14 by educating them in fire safety awareness, fire safety          
  techniques, and providing fire safety equipment.                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funds are used to support local coalitions and their high-risk communities and    
  to develop fire and burn education and prevention materials targeting high-risk   
  populations.

                                                                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Qualified nonprofit organization designated by DHS, statutes, and regulations.    
  Unsolicited applications will not be accepted.                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Individual/family; minority group.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                   
  application/program guidance.                                                     
Award Procedure:

  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.

  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the       
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                             
Deadlines:

  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Refer to program guidance document.                                               
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Requests for modifications to the grant award can only be authorized in writing   
  by the DHS Assistance Officer with the concurrence of the administering           
  program office. Requests for modifications must be supported by adequate          
  justification.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management              
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                 
Reports:                                                                            
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.      
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.     
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July 
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days       
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                               
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,        
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal  
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.     


                                                                               11-08
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0564-0-1-800.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $200,000; FY 08 est $200,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Annual leadership conference is held for participating coalitions to
  showcase/demonstrate skill building tools relating to the fire
  prevention/awareness program. Web site, media guides, and related fire safety
  materials are continuously refined and updated. Through partnership with local
  coalitions and fire departments, smoke alarms are provided to high-risk
  populations.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  31 CFR 205: Rules and Procedures for Funds Transfers; OMB Circular A-102:
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements
  with State and Local Governments; OMB Circular A-87: Cost Principles for
  State and Local Governments; OMB Circular A-110: Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,
  Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations; OMB Circular A-21: Cost
  Principles for Educational Institutions; OMB Circular A-122: Cost Principles for
  Nonprofit Organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Drive, SW., Bldg. #410
  Washington, DC 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dhs.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.096 COMMERCIAL EQUIPMENT DIRECT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM (CEDAP)
   (CEDAP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 108-334, Department of Homeland Security Appropriations Act,
  2005.
OBJECTIVES:
  To enhance regional response capabilities, mutual aid, and interoperable
  communications by providing technology and equipment, together with training
  and technical assistance required to operate that equipment, to public safety
  agencies in smaller jurisdictions and certain metropolitan areas to prevent, deter,
  and respond to terrorist attacks as identified in State homeland security
  strategies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Restricted to public and non-profit emergency response agencies in State, Local,
  tribal, and U.S. Territory possessions in smaller rural communities and
  jurisdictions that have not received technology funding through the Urban Area
  Security Initiative (UASI), or Assistance to Firefighter Grants (AFG) after
  October 1, 2005. Awardees that have received grant assistance from FEMA
  under FEMA's Interoperable Communications Equipment (ICE) program are not
  eligible for interoperable communications equipment under CEDAP.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Law enforcement agencies, fire, and other emergency responders who
  demonstrate the equipment will be used to improve their ability and capacity to
                                                                                     1667
