  further information.                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Unsolicited applications will not be accepted. Specific information on applicant    
  eligibility is identified in the funding opportunity announcement and program       
  guidance.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  General public.                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Standard Forms 424 (Application for Federal Assistance) and 424A (Budget            
  Information: Non-Construction Programs) must be completed and returned by           
  the recipient. In addition, the following forms must be completed: SF1199A          
  (Direct Deposit Sign-up Form); FEMA Form 20-16 (Summary Sheet for                   
  Assurances and Certifications); FEMA Form 20-16A and 16A (Back)                     
  (Assurances for Non- Construction Program); FEMA Form 20-16C                        
  (Certifications Regarding Lobbying, Debarment, Suspension and Other                 
  Responsibility Matters); and Drug-Free Workplace Requirements, and SFLLL            
  (Disclosure of Lobbying Activities.                                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.

  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the         
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.

Deadlines:

                                                                                      
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.              
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Requests for modifications to the grant award can only be authorized in writing     
  by the DHS Assistance Officer with the concurrence of the administering             
  program office. Requests for modifications must be supported by adequate            
  justification.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                   
Reports:                                                                              
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.        
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.       
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July   
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days         
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                 
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,          
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"          
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal    
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.       
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are     
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular   
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through      
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than nine months after the end of the    
  grantees fiscal year.                                                               
Records:                                                                              
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of three years from the day the        
  recipient submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim,           
  negotiation, audit, or other action involving the records has been started before   
  the expiration of the three-year period, the records must be retained until         
  completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until 
  the end of the regular three-year period, whichever is later. Grant records         
  include financial and program/progress reports, support documents, statistical      
  records, and other documents that support the activity and/or expenditure of the    
  recipient or sub-recipient under the award.                                         
Account Identification:                                                               
  70-0564-0-1-800.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $130,000; FY 08 $130,000; and FY 09 est not available.                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Refer to program guidance.                                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Information pertaining to residential fire sprinkler systems has been developed     
  and showcased at various venues and homebuilding/contracting industry               
  association events. Newsletters, web site development, and outreach material for    
  national, regional, and local homebuilder/fire protection industry associations,    
  and fire services have been developed.                                              
                                                                                      
1670                                                                            11-08

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  31 CFR 205: Rules and Procedures for Funds Transfers; OMB Circular A-102:
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements
  with State and Local Governments; OMB Circular A-87: Cost Principles for
  State and Local Governments; OMB Circular A-110: Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,
  Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations; OMB Circular A-21: Cost
  Principles for Educational Institutions; OMB Circular A-122: Cost Principles for
  Nonprofit Organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security 245 Murray Drive, SW., Bldg #410,
  Washington, DC, 20528.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Identified in the program guidance.
97.100 AIRPORT CHECKED BAGGAGE SCREENING
PROGRAM
   (Airport LOI Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (DHS)
AUTHORIZATION:
  Consolidated Appropriations Resolution of 2003, Section 367, Department of
  Transportation and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2003; Public Law
  108-7, Title III, Division I, 117 Stat. 423.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support U.S. commercial airports in implementing and maintaining security
  compliance requirements and capabilities related to in-line Baggage Handling
  System electronic explosive detection screening of checked baggage, as
  mandated by the Aviation and Transportation Security Act of 2001 (Public Law
  107-71).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Restricted to airport security improvements involving replacement or
  reconfiguration of baggage conveyor systems or the reconfiguration of terminal
  areas, to install explosive detection baggage handling systems in order to screen
  commercial airline passengers luggage.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Specified in U.S. Appropriation Statute or program guidance document; state,
  local, or other public entities/agencies responsible for commercial airport
  operations within their jurisdiction.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Documentation includes providing the scope of work, a concept of operations,
  drawings, estimated costs and estimated schedule. The airport improvement
  project proposed by the airport must involve the replacement of baggage
  conveyor systems or reconfiguration of terminal areas in order to install
  explosive detection systems. TSA and airport applicant, review a conceptual
  plan that includes the scope of work for facility modification, the type and
  number of required security screening technology units, the concept of
  operations, the estimated cost, and the estimated schedule.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff,
  concerns negotiated with the applicant, and award processed. Awards usually
  take the form of Memorandum of Agreement (MOA). Congress is required to be
  notified 3 days prior to the issuance of an award under this program.
Deadlines:
  Not applicable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has an airline passenger boarding-based cost sharing or match
