  requirement, as specified in the Appropriation Statute. Refer to program            
  guidance for specific cost sharing/match information.                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Refer to program guidance Negotiated by all parties and outlined in the             
  Memorandum of Agreement Appropriations are made annually with no                    
  guarantee of future funding Awards may be subject to the Cash Management            
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                   
Reports:                                                                              
  The following reports are required: Design drawings; all contracts the airport      
  proposes to execute for work that exceed $10 million; detailed cost estimates to    
  complete the project; monthly progress reports, including information               
  concerning incurred costs and progress against the schedule; monthly progress       
  reports.                                                                            
Audits:                                                                               
  In addition to the provisions of OMB circular A-133, the Memorandum of              
  Agreement (MOA) executed between TSA and the recipient, states that the TSA         
  Contracting Officer is authorized to audit all cost records incurred or anticipated 
  to be incurred in the performance of the LOI project. In accordance with the        
  provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States,       
  Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that           
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards (or receive       
  property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal year) will have a single or a 
  program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend     
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit           
  requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular A-133. These audits are     
  due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through the Federal Audit            
  Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the grantees fiscal year.   
Records:                                                                              
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient  
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, 
  or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 
  3-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and      
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress    
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support   
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.  
                                                                                      
Account Identification:

                                                                                      
  70-0550-0-1-402.

                                                                                      
Obligations:

  FY 07 $413,692,000; FY 08 est $390,108,000; FY 09 est $757,138,000.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Will vary by project or airport; specified in the announcement.                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  New program; a number of improvement projects have occurred at U. S.                
  commercial airports to expand or enhance screening of airline passengers'           
  luggage. Improvement projects entail replacement of baggage conveyor systems        
  or remodeling/reconfiguration of terminal areas to facilitate installation of       
  equipment to screen baggage carried on commercial airlines.                         
                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  None.                                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Homeland Security, Transportation Security Administration,            
  Security Technology Division, C/O Bldg. #410, 245 Murray Lane SW,                   
  Washington, DC 20531. Telephone: 571-227-1035. E-mail address not                   
  available.                                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Identified in the program guidance.                                                 
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
97.103 DEGREES AT A DISTANCE PROGRAM

                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
  HOMELAND SECURITY                                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; U.S.A. Patriot Act of            
  2001, Public Law 107-56; Federal Emergency Management Agency, Executive             
  Order 12127; The Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974, as amended,       
  and various appropriation bills.                                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To support curriculum development, regional meeting support, program                
  marketing, course material printing and publications and initiation of              
  institutional agreements with local two-year college degree programs and            
                                                                                      
                                                                                 11-08
  colleges/universities, designated by the National Fire Academy, to participate in
  the Degrees at a Distance Program (DDP). To provide an alternative means for
  fire service personnel to earn a bachelor's degree or to pursue college-level
  learning in a fire related course concentration without the requirement of having
  to attend on-campus classes.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Restricted to colleges/universities designated by the National Fire Academy, to
  support curriculum development, regional meeting support, program marketing,
  course material printing and publications; and initiation of institutional
  agreements with local two-year colleges.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Only colleges/universities designated by U. S. Fire Administration (USFA) are
  eligible, unsolicited applications will not be accepted Specific information on
  applicant eligibility is identified in the funding opportunity announcement and
  program guidance.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State, local and the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB Circular
  A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Requests for extensions must be supported by adequate justification, and can
  only be authorized in writing by the DHS/U.S. Fire Administration Procurement
  Officer with the concurrence of the administering program office.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30th. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days
  after the Expiration or termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than nine months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of three Years from the day the
  recipient submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim,
  negotiation, audit, or other action involving the records has been started before
  the expiration of the three-year period, the records must be retained until
  completion of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until
  the end of the regular three-year period, whichever is later. Grant records
  include financial and program/progress reports, support documents, statistical
  records, and other documents that support the activity and/or expenditure of the
  recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0564-0-1-800.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $60,000; FY 08 $70,000; and FY 09 est $70,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Degrees at a Distance Program continues to enroll new students and produce
                                                                                  1671
