  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                       
  application/program guidance.                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.           
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the           
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                                 
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Refer to announcement or application guidance For further information.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                   
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  Requests for modifications to the grant award can only be authorized in writing       
  by the DHS Assistance Officer with the concurrence of the administering               
  program office. Requests for modifications must be supported by adequate              
  justification.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  None.                                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                  
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                     
Reports:                                                                                
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.          
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.         
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July     
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days           
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                   
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133(Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"            
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal      
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.         
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are       
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular     
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through        
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the         
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                 
Records:                                                                                
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient    
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and          
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3 year  
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress      
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support     
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.    
Account Identification:                                                                 
  70-0564-0-1-800.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $125,000; FY 08 $150,000; and FY 09 $ est not available.                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Refer to program guidance.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Rules and Procedures for Funds Transfers, 31 CFR 205: OMB Circular A-102:             
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements             
  with State and Local Governments; OMB Circular A-87: Cost Principles for              
  State and Local Governments; OMB Circular A-110: Uniform Administrative               
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,         
  Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations; OMB Circular A-21: Cost                
  Principles for Educational Institutions; OMB Circular A-122: Cost Principles for      
  Nonprofit Organizations.                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Drive, SW., Building #410,                
  Washington, DC 20528.                                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.fema.gov .                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.    
                                                                                        
97.106 SECURING THE CITIES                                                              


                                                                                   11-08
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; as amended by the SAFE
  Port Act, Title V, Section 501(a), Public Law 109-347.
OBJECTIVES:
  The overall goal of the Securing the Cities (STC) initiative is to prevent a
  Radiological/Nuclear (RN) attack on high risk urban areas by enhancing
  regional capabilities to detect, identify, and interdict illicit radioactive materials
  in and around urban areas. One aspect of addressing this goal is providing
  assistance to State and local jurisdictions in and around major urban areas that
  will enable these entities to build capabilities by: Leveraging current
  technologies and deploying them regionally in a coordinated manner; Designing,
  acquiring, and deploying the components of an operationally viable regional
  architecture for radiological/nuclear detection, focused on State and local
  jurisdictions; Developing and implementing a common, multi-agency Concept
  of Operations (CONOPS) for sharing sensor data and resolving hits within the
  sensor architecture; Training and exercising by the regional agencies to execute
  this CONOPS to a high level of proficiency.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts); Use of Property,
  Facilities, and Equipment; Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods;
  Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Financial and non-financial assistance may be provided for the following:
  salaries, materials and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs,
  subcontractor and supporting costs required for technical and other activities
  necessary to achieve the objective. Restrictions, if any, will be identified in the
  announcement, program guidance and award provisions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Specific information on applicant eligibility is identified in the funding
  opportunity announcement and program guidance, or as specified by U.S.
  Appropriation Statute.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federal, State, and local governments, Interstate or intrastate governmental
  organizations, private, or public organizations, nonprofit organizations, and
  Indian tribal governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  May be required by the U.S. Statute, regulation, or program guidance.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Contingent upon future Congressional funding. Renewal of an award to increase
  funding or extend the period of performance is at the sole discretion of the
  Department of Homeland Security.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Match requirements, if any, are specified in the Program or Appropriation
  Statute, regulation or program guidance, and are identified in the announcement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the reporting period. Final financial and
  performance reports are due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant
  award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
                                                                                     1673
