  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and           
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3 year   
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support      
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.     
Account Identification:                                                                  
  70-0860-0-1-999.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  FY 07 $3,250,000; FY 08 est $30,000,000; and FY 09 est $20,000,000.                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  Refer to program guidance.                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                 
  2007 one award for a pilot implementation of a regional preventive radiological        
  and nuclear detection architecture was funded and ongoing in the NYC                   
  metropolitan area; anticipate one award in 2008.                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements              
  to State and Local Governments, 44 CFR 13. OMB Circular A-87, Cost                     
  Principles for State, Local, and Tribal Governments, Relocated to 2 CFR Part           
  225; OMB Circular A-110, relocated to 2 CFR Part 215. Uniform                          
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of             
  Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations. OMB                    
  Circular A-122, relocated to 2 CFR Part 230. Cost Principles for NonProfit             
  Organizations. OMB Circular A-133 Audits of States, Local Governments, and             
  Nonprofit Organizations, in addition to program regulations, guidelines, DHS           
  policy and procedures.                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Department of Homeland Security, Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, Attn:              
  Assessments/Matthew Barton, Mail Stop 7100, 245 Murray Lane, Building 410,             
  Washington, DC 20528, Telephone: (202) 254-7412, E-mail:                               
  matthew.barton@dhs.gov.                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  www.dhs.gov.                                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  Pilot implementation of a regional preventive radiological and nuclear detection       
  architecture is funded and ongoing in the NYC metropolitan area.                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.     
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
97.107 NATIONAL INCIDENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM                                               
(NIMS)                                                                                   
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                         
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY

                                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                         
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296; Department of Homeland

  Security Appropriations Act of 2007, Public Law 109-295; Homeland Security             
                                                                                         
  Presidential Directive HSPD-5.

                                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                         
  To support the development, integration, and deployment of incident

                                                                                         
  management systems. This includes operational, technical and programmatic              
  standards in support of nationwide implementation of the NIMS model;

                                                                                         
  establish a unified approach to incident management, as well as, standard

                                                                                         
  command and management structures.

                                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants; Cooperative Agreements.                                                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Funding will support implementation of the National Incident Management                
  System (NIMS) which includes incident management standards, related                    
  projects, and program support.                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  Specific information on applicant eligibility is identified in the funding             
  opportunity announcement and program guidance.

Beneficiary Eligibility:

  State, local, Public Nonprofit Institution/Organization, Federal Recognized            
  Indian Tribal Government, U.S. Territory/Possession, Private Organization,             
  Other Public Institution/Organization.                                                 
1674                                                                               11-08

Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed and approved for award by DHS program
  and administrative staff in accordance with program guidance.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Annual.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: Jan. 31, April 30, July 31,
  and Oct. 31. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days after the
  expiration or termination of grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the
  grantees fiscal year.
Records:
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0700-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $11,636,000; FY 08 $12,648,000; and FY 09 est $10,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Funding has been provided to State, local emergency management entities,
  private sector, educational institutions and non-governmental organization in
  support for the nationwide implementation of the National Incident Management
  System.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  See program guidance.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Homeland Security, Federal Emergency Management Agency,
  C/O 245 Murray Lane, Bldg # 410, Washington DC 20523. Telephone: 1-800-
  621-FEMA. E-mail: FEMA-NIMS@dhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov/emergency/nims/index.shtm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  As specified within the cooperative agreements. Please see specific cooperative
  agreements for further guidance.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance.
97.108 HOMELAND SECURITY, RESEARCH, TESTING,
EVALUATION, AND DEMONSTRATION OF
TECHNOLOGIES
