FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Homeland Security Act of 2002, Public Law 107-296, Title 6, U.S.C. Section         
  308(b)(1)(c) . Section 1901 of Public Law 110-53, "Implementing                    
  Recommendation of the 9/11 Commission Act of 2007."                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide funding and/or property for the purpose of conducting research,         
  testing, evaluation, and demonstration of homeland security technologies           
  intended to identify, counter, or respond to terrorist threats.                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements or Contracts); Use of Property,             
  Facilities, and Equipment; Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods;      
  Dissemination of Technical Information.                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Financial and nonfinancial assistance may be provided for the following:           
  salaries, materials and supplies, equipment, travel, publication costs,            
  subcontractor and supporting costs required for technical and other activities     
  necessary to achieve the objective. Restrictions on use of funds will be identified
  in the announcement, program guidance and award provisions.                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  States, local governments, private, public, profit or nonprofit organizations,     
  Indian Tribal governments, or individuals specified by U.S. Appropriation          
  Statute, including U. S. and international institutions of higher education and    
  educational laboratories.                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Federal, State, and local governments, private, public, profit or nonprofit        
  organizations, Indian tribal governments, and individuals.                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  May be required by the U.S. Statute, regulation, or program guidance.              
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:

  Application deadline and other information are contained in the                    
  application/program guidance.                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.        
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the        
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  "Earmarked" or one-time funding amounts and any match requirements are             
  specified in the Program or Appropriation Statute, regulation or program           
  guidance, and are identified in the announcement.                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management               
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                  
Reports:                                                                             
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.       
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.      
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July  
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days        
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,         
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"         
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal   
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.      
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are    
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular  
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through     
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than nine months after the end of the   
  grantees fiscal year.                                                              
Records:                                                                             
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of three years from the day the       
  recipient submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim,          
  negotiation, audit, or other action involving the records has been started before  
  the expiration of the 3-year period, the records must be retained until completion 
  of the action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of
  the regular 3-year period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and 
  program/progress reports, support documents, statistical records, and other        
  documents that support the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-    
                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  recipient under the award.
Account Identification:
  70-0800-0-1-999.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $592,598; FY 08 est $1,200,000; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OMB Circulars Nos. A-21, Cost Principles for Educational Institutions, A-87,
  Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments, A-102 Grants
  and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local Governments, A-110,
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Other Agreements With
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Nonprofit Organizations, and A-
  133 Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, in
  addition to program regulations, guidelines, DHS policy and procedures.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants and Financial Assistance Division, Office of Procurement Operations,
  Telephone: (202) 447-5589.
Web Site Address:
  www.dhs.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.109 DISASTER HOUSING ASSISTANCE GRANT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS AND RESPONSE, FEDERAL
  EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF
  HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 102(b)(2), Homeland Security Act, 6 U.S.C 112; Sections 408(b)(1),
  426 and 306 (a), Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance
  Act (Stafford Act), 42 U.S.C. 5174(B)(1), 42 U.S.C 5189d, and 42 U.S.C. 5149
  (a); Economy Act, 31 U.S.C. 1535.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide temporary housing assistance and case management for families who
  were displaced by Hurricanes Katrina and Rita. DHAP would be implemented
  in the form of a rental assistance program that would continue providing housing
  subsidies for families for the next 18 months after termination of Federal
  Emergency Management Agency's (FEMA) initial temporary housing program.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Public Housing Agencies (PHAs) will use the assistance to provide eligible
  families who were displaced by Hurricanes Katrina or Rita with monthly rent
  subsidies. Families are either receiving or are eligible to receive rental
  assistance administered by FEMA. PHAs will administer the DHAP to families
  that have been determined eligible by FEMA through HUD's web-based Disaster
  Information System. The assistance must be used by PHAs to provide rental
  assistance to families determined eligible by FEMA. In addition to rental
  assistance, grant funds shall be used to provide case management services to
  eligible families and to pay for costs associated with PHA administration of the
  program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Individuals and families determined eligible for FEMA housing assistance.
  Specific information on applicant eligibility is identified in the funding
  opportunity announcement and program guidance.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals and families.
Credentials/Documentation:
  All Public Housing Agencies with jurisdiction over areas where eligible families
  reside that administer the Housing Choice Voucher Program are invited to apply
  provided they have the administrative capacity to assume responsibility for the
  DHAP.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
                                                                                 1675
