Deadlines:                                                                               
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                      
  Refer to program guidance document.                                                    
Appeals:                                                                                 
  None.                                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  None.                                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
  Refer to program guidance Awards are subject to the Cash Management                    
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                      
Reports:                                                                                 
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.           
  Quarterly Progress Reports must include the progress of each sub-grant award.          
  Both quarterly reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30,      
  April 30, July 30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are         
  due 90 days after the expiration or termination of grant award.                        
Audits:                                                                                  
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,             
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in            
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal       
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.          
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are        
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular      
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through         
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than 9 months after the end of the          
  grantees fiscal year.                                                                  
Records:                                                                                 
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of 3 years from the day the recipient     
  submits its final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit, or 
  other action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-    
  year period, the records must be retained until completion of the action and           
  resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year   
  period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and program/progress       
  reports, support documents, statistical records, and other documents that support      
  the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-recipient under the award.     
Account Identification:                                                                  
  70-0702-0-1-453.                                                                       
Obligations:                                                                             
  (Project Grants) FY 07 $204,000,000; FY 08 est $365,000,000; and FY 09 est             
  not available.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                               
  Refer to program guidance.                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                         
  None.

                                                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                         
  Fair Housing Act, Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964; Section 504 of the

                                                                                         
  Rehabilitation Act of 1973; Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act; 24

                                                                                         
  CFR 982.352; 982.401; 982.555 ; PIH Notice 2007-26. Full text may be

                                                                                         
  obtained at the following website:

                                                                                         
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/pih/publications/hurricane.cfm.

                                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:

  None.                                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Department of Homeland Security, 245 Murray Lane, Building #410,                       
  Washington, DC 20528.                                                                  
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  www.fema.gov.                                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  None.                                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.     
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
97.110 SEVERE LOSS REPETITIVE PROGRAM                                                    
   (SRL)                                                                                 
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, as amended by the Bunning-Bereuter-              
  Blumenauer Flood Insurance Reform Act of 2004, Public Law 108-264.                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To assist States and local governments in supporting actions that reduce or            
  eliminate the long-term risk of flood damage to residential properties insured         
  under the National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP) that meet the definition of          


1676                                                                               11-08

  severe repetitive loss property, and to reduce losses to the National Flood
  Insurance Fund (NFIF) by funding projects that result in the greatest savings to
  the NFIF in the shortest time period.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  States, Territories, local and Federally - recognized Indian tribal governments
  may apply for SRL funding to reduce or eliminate the long-term risk of flood
  damage to residential properties insured under the NFIP that meet severe
  repetitive loss property eligibility criteria. Eligible activities under this program
  include: acquisition and relocation of at-risk structures and the conversion of
  property to open space; elevation of existing structures to the Base Flood
  Elevation (BFE) or an ABFE Advisory Base Flood Elevation (ABFE) or higher
  (for the SRL program Mitigation Reconstruction is only permitted when
  traditional elevation cannot be implemented); minor physical localized flood
  control projects; and dry-flood proofing (historic properties only).
Applicant Eligibility:
  State emergency management agencies or a similar office (i.e., the office that
  has primary emergency management or floodplain management responsibility)
  of the State; District of Columbia; U.S. Virgin Islands; the Commonwealth of
  Puerto Rico; American Samoa; Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands;
  Guam; and Federally-recognized Indian tribal governments. Specific
  information on sub-applicant eligibility, and application procedures for
  Federally-recognized Indian tribal governments, is provided in the SRL program
  guidance.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, Territories, local governments, Federally-recognized Indian tribal
  governments, and homeowners.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Federally-recognized Indian tribal governments and local governments that are
  sub-applicants must be participating in the NFIP. Properties included in project
  sub-applications must meet the SRL property definition. SRL properties are
  residential properties that are covered under an NFIP flood insurance policy and:
  (a) that have at least 4 NFIP claim payments (including building and contents)
  over $5,000 each, and the cumulative amount of such claims payments exceeds
  $20,000; or (b) for which at least two separate claims payments (building
  payments only) have been made with the cumulative amount of the building
  portion of such claims exceeding the market value of the building. For both
  scenarios (a) and (b), at least two of the referenced claims must have occurred
  within any ten-year period, and must be greater than 10 days apart.
Preapplication Coordination:
  DHS FEMA will identify the location of severe repetitive loss properties and
  furnish that information to the relevant States, Territories, local governments,
  and Federally-recognized Indian tribal governments. FEMA will also notify
  owners of severe repetitive loss properties that may be eligible to receive SRL or
  other FEMA mitigation assistance; that their NFIP insurance premium rates may
  increase upon declining offers of SRL Program mitigation assistance only (such
  insurance consequences do not apply to other FEMA mitigation assistance
  programs); and, that they have the right to appeal such premium rate increases.
  Further, States, Territories, local governments, and Federally-recognized Indian
  tribal governments will, to the best extent practicable, consult with SRL property
  owners to select the most appropriate mitigation activity, prior to submitting
  SRL grant applications. To be eligible for a SRL grant, Applicants must have a
  FEMA approved State Mitigation Plan (Standard or Enhanced) or Tribal
  Mitigation Plan in compliance with 44 CFR Part 201 by the application
  deadline. In addition, Sub-applicants must have a FEMA approved local
  mitigation plan in accordance with 44 CFR Part 201, by the application deadline
  that, at a minimum, addresses flood hazards to be eligible to receive project
  grant funding under the SRL program. Establishment of this program through
  regulation is categorically excluded from the requirement of the preparation of
  an environmental assessment or an environmental impact statement in
  accordance with 44 CFR 10.8(d)(2)(ii). This NEPA category excludes the
  preparation, revision, and adoption of regulations where the rule regulates to
  actions that qualify for other NEPA categorical exclusions in 44 CFR 10.8(d)(2).
   This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or officials
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the announcement
  or application /program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
