Appeals:                                                                               
  Property owners who refuse an SRL mitigation offer may become subject to             
  increases of their NFIP insurance premium rates, and have the right to appeal        
  such rate increases. Refer to SRL program guidance or the administering              
  program office for further information.                                              
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  DHS FEMA will allocate the available SRL funds to states each fiscal year            
  based upon the percentage of the total number of severe repetitive loss properties   
  located within the State. Ten percent of the total funds made available in any       
  fiscal year will be available to States, Territories, and Federally-recognized

  Indian tribal governments that have at least one SRL property and that receive       
  little or no allocation. NFIP severe repetitive loss property records are

  maintained and updated monthly by the FEMA Bureau and Statistical Agent.

                                                                                       
  NFIP severe repetitive loss property records are protected by the Privacy Act,       
  and are only made available to the States, Territories, local governments, and

  Indian tribal governments eligible to apply for SRL grants. DHS FEMA may             
  contribute up to 75 percent of the eligible costs of activities that target SRL      
  properties. The SRL program offers up to 90 percent Federal cost share funding       
  for projects approved in States, Territories, and Federally-recognized Indian        
  Tribal Plans that include a strategy for mitigating existing and future SRL          
  properties. For further information refer to DHS FEMA SRL and Flood                  
  Mitigation Assistance (FMA) program regulations at 44 CFR Part 79, the SRL           
  program guidance, or contact the administering program office.                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management                 
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.                    
Reports:                                                                               
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.         
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.      
   Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July   
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days          
  after the expiration or termination of grant award.                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27,           
  2003), Audits of States, local governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards (or receive property, or a combination of both, within the fiscal     
  year) will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.        
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are      
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular    
  A-133. These audits are due to the cognizant Federal agency, submitted through       
  the Federal Audit Clearinghouse, not later than nine months after the end of the     
  grantee's fiscal year.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  Grant records shall be retained for a period of three years from the day the         
  recipient submits it final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation,
  audit, or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration  
  of the three-year period, the records must be retained until completion of the       
  action and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the     
  regular three-year period, whichever is later. Grant records include financial and   
  program/progress reports, support documents, statistical records, and other          
  documents that support the activity and/or expenditure of the recipient or sub-      
  recipient under the award.                                                           
Account Identification:                                                                
  70-4236-0-3-453.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $0, FY 08 est $40,000,000; and FY 09 est $40,000,000.                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Will be identified in solicitation/program guidance.                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  None.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  The SRL and FMA Program Regulations at 44 CFR Part 79; the DHS FEMA                  
  Real Property Acquisition Regulations at 44 CFR Part 80, and the SRL program         
  guidance. Other guidelines include OMB Circular No. A-102, Grants and                
  Cooperative Agreements with State and local Governments, and OMB Circular            
  No. A-87, Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments. This       
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental Review of       
  Federal Programs. Local Governments and Federally-recognized Indian Tribal (if       
  applying through the State) sub-applicants should consult the office or officials    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her state for more information   
  on the process that the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance.    
                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for listing of addresses of the DHS FEMA              
  Regional Offices.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Lloyd Hake, Chief, Program Implementation Section, Risk Reduction Branch,            
  Mitigation Division, Federal Emergency Management Agency, 500 C Street,              


                                                                                  11-08
  S.W., Washington, DC 20472. Telephone: (202) 646-3428 or E-mail:
  Lloyd.Hake@dhs.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fema.gov/government/mitigation.shtm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  97.029, Flood Mitigation Assistance; 97.092, Repetitive Flood Claims; 97.047,
  Pre-Disaster Mitigation; 97.039, Hazard Mitigation Grant.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Acquisition and relocation of structures from hazard-prove areas.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Refer to the program guidance for information on criteria for selecting proposals.
97.111 REGIONAL CATASTROPHIC PREPAREDNESS
GRANT PROGRAM (RCPGP)
   (RCPGP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY
AUTHORIZATION:
  U.S. Troop Readiness, Veterans' Care, Katrina Recovery, and Iraq
  Accountability Appropriations Act of 2007, Public Law 110-28; and
  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2008, Public Law 110-161.
OBJECTIVES:
  The goal of RCPGP is to support an integrated planning system that provides for
  regional all-hazard planning for catastrophic events and the development of
  necessary plans, protocols, and procedures to manage a catastrophic event.
  Objectives include, creating regional planning processes and planning
  communities through the establishment of a Catastrophic Planning Working
  Group; Identifying and assessing priority areas of concern using both
  capabilities-based and scenario-based planning models; Developing enhanced
  regional plans and addressing shortcomings in jurisdiction plans to support both
  the management of a catastrophic incident and to enable enduring government;
  and linking planning efforts to resource allocations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The RCPGP is comprised of funding for both fiscal years 2007 and 2008. Funds
  will be allocated to Tier I Urban Areas and designated Tier II Urban Areas are
  eligible for funding under the RCPGP.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Specific information on applicant eligibility is identified in the funding
  opportunity announcement and program guidance.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State and local governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Application deadline and other information are contained in the
  application/program guidance.
Award Procedure:
  Applications or plans are reviewed by DHS program and administrative staff.
  Any issues or concerns noted in the application will be negotiated with the
  successful applicant prior to the award being issued.
Deadlines:
  Refer to announcement or application guidance for further information.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Refer to program guidance document.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  An annual appropriation is anticipated for this program.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The program will require a soft match of non-Federal funds totaling 25 percent.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Refer to program guidance. Awards are subject to the Cash Management
  Improvement Act for payment and/or reimbursement of expenditures.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit quarterly financial and performance reports.
  Quarterly "Progress Reports" must include the progress of each sub-grant award.
  Reports are due 30 days after the end of each quarter: January 30, April 30, July
  30, and October 30. Final financial and performance reports are due 90 days
  after the expiration or termination of grant award. (See #111 in agency reference
  manual; program office may add program specific information to this phrase if
                                                                                  1677
