  increased by 4.3 percentage points, with a 5.7% increase for girls. Similar on-    
  target results were reported for Zambia, where the number of children enrolled in  
  USAID-supported basic education institutions dramatically increased from           
  12,565 pupils in 63 basic education sites in 2000 to 37,140 pupils enrolled in     
  256 basic education sites in 2001. The U.S. response to the global HIV/AIDS        
  epidemic is an example of the significant accomplishments of the United States     
  in the health area. The epidemic is causing widespread suffering in the            
  developingworld,whereitispoisedtoprofoundly under mine                             
  socialandeconomicadvances in many countries. In much of Africa, the medical,       
  social, and economic consequences of the epidemic are already severe, and          
  many areas of Asia, Eastern Europe, and the Caribbean are at risk for equally      
  severe epidemics. The past two years have seen a dramatic escalation in            
  USAID's involvement in addressing this urgent global issue. In FY 2002,            
  USAID's HIV/AIDS funding increased to $510 million. A new Office of                
  HIV/AIDS was created within the Bureau of Global Health. USAID is now              
  providing assistance to more than 50 countries by strengthening prevention,        
  treatment, and surveillance programs and by providing vital services to orphans    
  and other children affected by AIDS. USAID has also contributed critical           
  technical and management expertise to the formation of the new Global Fund for     
  AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, which has already attracted more resources for    
  combating AIDS worldwide. In the environment sector, for example, during FY        
  2001, USAID helped India reduce CO2 emissions by 4.4 million tons, exceeding       
  the target of 4.19 million tons. In South Africa, USAID assisted municipal         
  governments delivery of energy and other services as it exceeded its targets for   
  services delivered to historically disadvantaged households. Almost 900,000        
  households benefited from programs supported by USAID, and more than $180          
  million was leveraged to support improved service delivery. The United States      
  program in Afghanistan illustrates the significant accomplishments of the United   
  States in providing humanitarian assistance. The United States provided $588       
  million to help the Afghans; USAID managed more than $350 million of this          
  assistance. USAID responded to the humanitarian crisis by providing food,          
  emergency supplies, health care, communications, and transport. USAID has          
  built 142 schools, daycare centers and vocational education facilities and has     
  trained 1,300 teachers who will return to village schools to train local teachers. 
  The 7,000 tons of seed the Agency provided last spring resulted in a 82%           
  increase in wheat production this summer.                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Grant administration policies are in 22 CFR 226, and may be found at               
  http://www.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/index.html. Internal USAID policy directives,          
  including standard formats, may be found in Automated Directive Systems            
  (ADS) Chapter 303. The ADS is available on the USAID website at                    
  http://www.usaid.gov/pubs/ads/. Other information regarding USAID's program        
  may be found at www.usaid.gov.                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Wade Warren Office of Development Planning Africa Bureau Larry Brady               
  Office of Strategic Planning and Operations Asia Near East Bureau Susan Hill       
  Strategy and Program Office Latin America and Caribbean Bureau Sherry              
  Grossman Program Office Europe and Eurasia Bureau United States Agency for         
  International Development Washington, DC 20523.                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  United States Agency for International Development, 1300 Pennsylvania Ave,         
  Washington, DC 20523. Telephone: (202) 712-4810. E-mail:                           
  pinquiries@usaid.gov.                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.usaid.gov.                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  To improve the fate of orphans, the USAID Mission in Russia has provided           
  grant assistance to the International Research and Exchange Board (IREX) and       
  the National Society for Prevention of Cruelty to Children. The program has        
  created innovative child welfare models to prevent abandonment, promote            
  family care, and foster the integration of orphans leaving institutional care as   
  they enter adulthood. More than 9,700 of Russia's most vulnerable children and     
  6,700 families have benefited directly from the program's assistance. Early in     
  2002, the Moscow Duma appointed an ombudsman to protect orphans rights; a          
  USAID grantee wrote the law establishing the position. USAID/Bulgaria              
  supports Partners Bulgaria Foundation for its conflict prevention and ethnic       
  integration program. It began as a pilot program to assist the Roma population     
  in the city of Lom, and has been replicated in the cities of Vidin and Kyustendil. 
  The program has helped to establish cooperative planning mechanisms for the        
  Roma population to work with local institutions in addressing common issues, a     
  Conciliation Commission to engage in cooperative problem solving and local         
  conflict resolution, a Roma Leadership Institute to increase the capacity of Roma  
  leaders and NGOs through advanced training and networking, and increased           
  cross-sectoral partnership across NGOs, municipality, Roma, business, media        
  and educational institutions to improve the Roma educational and employment        
  opportunities. In Guatemala, through a grant to Creative Associates, civil         
  society coalitions are provided assistance to help combat ethnic discrimination,   
  promote transparency and anticorruption efforts, address public security issues



1680                                                                           11-08

and exercise congressional oversight. The overall aim of the program is to
establish broader, more effective civil society participation in the policy process
and oversight of public institutions. Under the Cuba program, a grant to
Georgetown University supports a participant training program for students from
Cuba. The program will provide training in technical fields to disadvantaged
youth at community and technical colleges throughout the United States.
Training will also include subjects in courses linked to democracy building, such
as economics, political science, U.S. history and Latin American history. The
program will expose students to U.S. culture and institutions. A grant was
recently awarded under the USAID/Mexico program to Texas A&M University-
Corpus Christie for cross-border collaboration between Texas A&M, Lamar
University and the Technological Institute of Saltillo on environmental
sustainability of water resources. The grant is part of a larger program designed
to conserve critical biodiversity and natural resources in Mexico. Under the LAC
Regional program, a grant to the Inter-American Dialogue promotes economic
links between the American diaspora and Guyana and explores ways that
remittances could bring growth to the country's economy. Activities focus on
profiling Guyanese remittance senders and receivers (in the US and Guyana),
identifying opportunities to work with Guyanese hometown associations on
development programs, and partnering with financial institutions in the US and
Guyana to reduce remittance transfer costs. USAID's $300,000 grant to the
Vietnam Veterans of America Foundation in Angola helps children in Mexico
province who are landmine victims through vocational training and activities
such as Special Olympics. In March 2003, USAID and a number of U.S.-based
nongovernmental organizations (NGOs) formed the Consortium for
Development Relief in Angola (CDRA). The CDRA program provides a creative
and flexible platform for humanitarian response to assist war-affected families to
become food secure over an 18-month period. The USAID-funded CDRA
program is assisting more than 110,000 families in eight provinces in central
Angola with variety of emergency and development interventions
usingboth food aid and cash. In Bimbe, CDRA partner World Vision responded
to the emergency situation with a combination of interventions, including
emergency food distributions and supplemental feedings. In just six months, the
USAID- CDRA program has had a major impact on the families of Bimbe,
including the reduction of the malnutrition rate to below 2% and a child
mortality rate of 2 to 3 per month. USAID has provided grants to the National
Democratic Institute (NDI) since 1995. The NDI programs have resulted in
stronger political parties (including opposition parties) in Lesotho, as well as a
stronger National Assembly, all of which have contributed to increased political
stability in that country. Since February 1999, CARE has implemented the
Central Region Livelihood Security Program (CRLSP) in three traditional
authorities of Lilongwe District of Malawi. The project is funded entirely by
USAID and CARE. The project's goal is to improve the food and livelihood
security of 10,000 rural households. Activities include developing and
strengthening the organizational capacities and partnerships of small-holder
farmers; a rising agricultural productivity; improving water availability and
utilization; and increasing household earnings. FY 2002 marked the first year in
Mozambique's post-colonial history when commercial credit was extended to
rural enterprises by a formal Mozambican financial institution. Twenty-three
groups of rural enterprises formed under a USAID grant managed by CLUSA
received over $118,000 in marketing credit, allowing them to turn over the loan
a number of times by buying maize, roundnuts, beans and sesame at different
periods in the harvest cycle. The Namibian Parliament, with assistance from the
USAID-supported National Democratic Institute for International Affairs (NDI),
designed a website that enables citizens and civil society to track legislation,
communicate with Parliamentarians, and engage in that room dialogues on
topics of current interest. Microsoft was so impressed with the success of the
activity that, in December 2002, it donated additional computers and software
for distribution in several towns around the country. USAID provided a $1
million grant to the U.S.-based Cheetah Conservation Fund to support the
conservation of cheetahs in Namibia. The program is implemented in
collaboration with the World Wildlife Fund, Namibia's Ministry of Environment
and Tourism, and a number of Namibian NGOs. The cheetah conservation
program one of USAID's clearest successes in Namibia' has reported results in
natural resource protection, economic growth, democracy strengthening,
women's empowerment, and safeguarding Africa's biodiversity. USAID's
Economic Growth, Agriculture, and Trade (EGAT) Bureau currently funds 17
grants to U.S. universities to assist South Africa's historically disadvantaged
institutions to transform their institutions, support basic education initiatives,
and improve classroom teaching skills. The International Executive Service
Corps (IESC) is a U.S. NGO that coordinates the volunteer work of retired
executives with companies around the world. A USAID-funded IESC program in
Zambia currently provides hands-on technical assistance and training workshops
to rural non-farm enterprises. In collaboration with Population Services
International (PSI) and local nongovernmental organizations, USAID has
launched HIV/AIDS voluntary counseling and testing (VCT) centers at strategic
locations throughout Zimbabwe. The Zimbabwe program has achieved the
highest client return rate of any VCT program, due in part to the high quality of
counseling and the nominal client fees. The newest independent VCT site,
