  managed by PSI using business franchise techniques, is located in downtown        
  Harare near a bus terminal, and serves 150 clients per day. USAID's Regional      
  Center for Southern Africa has provided grants to support the development of      
  three cross-border natural resource management areas: 1)                          
  FourCrners comprising contiguous lands in Botswana, Namibia, Zimbabwe, and        
  Zambia; 2) Greater Limpopo, comprising a game reserve in Mozambique,              
  Kruger Park in South Africa, and Gonarezhou Park in Zimbabwe; and 3)              
  Zimoza, which comprises the border regions of Zimbabwe, Mozambique, and           
  Zambia in the mid-Zambezi river basin.                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Criteria are defined specifically in the notifications of funding opportunities   
  when they are issued. Generally the technical and organizational criteria are     
  based on potential capacity to efficiently recruit and field volunteers overseas, 
  identify host enterprises in the targeted countries and plan and organize         
  volunteer assignments in to coherent programs that have significant measurable    
  economic impact.                                                                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
98.002 COOPERATIVE DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM (CDP)                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as Amended, Public Law 87-195, Sections 111,      
  123 and 311.                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  Deliver the quality and magnitude of support necessary for CDOs to attract the    
  financial, human, institutional and financial resources necessary to significantly
  enhance their impact on cooperative development worldwide, contributing to        
  self-reliant cooperative enterprises that meet the evolving needs of their        
  members and contribute to the quality of member lives, their communities and      
  nation.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Grant funds may be used, among other things, for basic feasibility studies and    
  providing technical assistance or advisory services to cooperatives, private      
  voluntary and other non-governmental organizations, governments and groups of     
  individuals that wish to develop new cooperatives or improve existing             
  cooperatives. Emphasis is given to developing, testing and implementing           
  solutions to major issues facing international cooperative development            
  including, but not limited to, governance, modern management, cooperative         
  legislation and regulation, achieving scale and salience.                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Applicants eligible are U.S. cooperatives and recognized cooperative              
  development organizations (CDOs) that are organically-linked to cooperatives      
  and groups of cooperatives and whose demonstrated capabilities are broadly        
  consistent with USAID's strategic objectives.                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Cooperatives and their members in USAID eligible countries.                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility, and financial responsibility    
  relative to the activity for which assistance is requested.                       
                                                                                    
Preapplication Coordination:

  As may be specified in a published Request for Applications (RFA). This           
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                               
Application Procedure:                                                              
  As may be specified in a published Request for Applications. This would           
  normally include, but would not necessarily be limited to Forms SF-424 and        
  424A, as well as the applicant organization's name, address, contact person and   
  information; project objectives; funding and budget; proposed partners;           
  executive summary, organizational overview, program description, program          
  management and structure; monitoring and impact assessment; cost proposal         
  with budget narrative; planning matrix; staffing plans with resumes of key        
  personnel; letters from proposed partners evidencing knowledge of the program

  and agreement to participate; evidence of concurrence from USAID missions in      
  countries of proposed implementation; and a summary of USAID-financed             
  activities conducted over the three years preceding the application.

Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications are submitted to the Cooperatives Coordinator, Office of Private     
  and Voluntary Cooperation, Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance        
  Bureau. All applications are reviewed by committees that include a technical      
  reviewer with knowledge of the specific area of cooperation concerned as well as  
  knowledgeable USAID officials drawn from different Bureaus. Each application      
  is scored by all participating USAID officials using criteria incorporated in the 
  Request for Applications. Awards are given based on relative scores.              
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Specified in the published Request for Applications which appear on the           
  DCHA/PVC web site and in the Federal Register.                                    
                                                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Approximately three to four months from the receipt of applications.              
                                                                                    
                                                                               11-08
Appeals:
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There is not formula for matching requirements. Applicants may be encouraged
  to achieve a target match which would be incorporated in the Request for
  Applications.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cooperative Development Program cooperative agreements are generally for a
  period of three to five years and may be extended for a total period not to exceed
  ten years.
Reports:
  Each award recipient is required to provide Annual Work Plans, Semi-Annual
  Progress Reports and Quarterly financial statements (Form 269A). Additional
  reporting may be required to support Congressional requests for information.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The grantee shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant
  funds are used for authorized purposes.
Account Identification:
  72-1021-0-1-151.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $5,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $1,000,000 to $5,000,000 over five years.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2002, 8 grants were extended through FY 2004.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Code of Federal Regulations Title 22, 228 Volume 1, Parts 1 to 299 (Revised as
  of April 1, 1999); USAID Automated Directive System, specifically Series 300
  and cross-references.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Cooperative Coordinator, Office of Private and Voluntary Cooperation, Bureau
  for Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance, United States Agency for
  International Development, Washington, DC 20523. Telephone: (202) 712-
  5226.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usaid.gov/hum_response/pvc/coop.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grant funds are being used to provide technical assistance, applied research,
  technical training, and cooperative education activities in more than 20 countries
  of Africa, Asia and the Near East, Europe and Eurasia, Latin America and the
  Caribbean.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Preference is given to applicants that have demonstrated significant
  contributions to international cooperative development, that propose activities
  that promise a substantial addition to the theory and practice of cooperative
  development, that demonstrate the commitment to integrate lessons learned into
  their own programs as well as disseminate these to the broader cooperative
  development community, and whose staff possess the range of skills necessary to
  achieve these results.
98.003 OCEAN FREIGHT REIMBURSEMENT PROGRAM
(OFR)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPOMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, Section 123(b).
OBJECTIVES:
  Reimburses registered U.S. private voluntary organizations (PVOs) to ship
  commodities overseas for use in privately funded development and humanitarian
  assistance programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds may be used to pay transportation charges on shipments by PVOs
  registered with USAID to further the efficient use of U.S. voluntary
  contributions for development, relief, and the rehabilitation of friendly people.
                                                                                 1681
