  Participating PVOs are responsible for ancillary costs such as commodity              
  acquisition, warehousing, insurance, local transportation and distribution. OFR       
  awards will not exceed $150,000 per year.                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Applicants must be a U.S. PVO registered with USAID's Office of Private and           
  Voluntary Cooperation; receive at least 20 percent of its total annual financial      
  support for its international programs from non-U.S. government sources; ship         
  only those commodities and only to those countries approved by USAID; have            
  staff or consignees in-country to ensure proper pick-up and distribution of           
  commodities; and provide Duty-Free Certification with the application for each        
  country to which commodities will be shipped.                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Registered PVOs in the United States, as well as people located in USAID              
  eligible countries who are in need of humanitarian assistance or relief, benefit      
  from these grants.                                                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility, and financial responsibility        
  relative to the activity for which assistance is requested.                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  As may be specified in a published Request for Application (RFA). This                
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                                  
  As specified in a published Request for Applications. This would include the

  applicant organization's name, address, contact person and information; project

                                                                                        
  objectives; funding and budget; proposed partners; executive summary,                 
  organizational overview, program description, program management and                  
  structure; monitoring and consignee receiving distribution system.                    
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Awards are made on the basis of competitive Technical Evaluation Committee            
  review of applications. Each application is scored using criteria incorporated in     
  the Request for Applications. Awards are given based on relative scores.              
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Specified in the published Request for Application which appears on the               
  DCHA/PVC web site and in the Federal Register.                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Approximately five to seven months from the receipt of applications.                  
Appeals:                                                                                
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated. Applicants 
  may request a debriefing of the RFA on the strengths and weaknesses of the            
  proposal. Such requests will be routed to the OFR program officer.                    
Renewals:                                                                               
  OFR Program grant agreements are for a period of two years. Once awarded,             
  projects will not compete for funding the second year. Funding for projects           
  beyond the first year is contingent upon the availability of program funds, the       
  extent to which the recipient meets program objectives and the recipients ability     
  to utilize OFR funds in a timely manner.                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  OFR Program grant agreements are for a period of two years.                           
Reports:                                                                                
  Each award recipient is required to provide on a quarterly basis, the Voluntary       
  Agency Quarterly Report of Shipping Activity which provides data on the actual        
  destination of shipments, types of commodities shipped and subsequent                 
  drawdown of program funds. Additional reporting may be required to support            
  congressional requests for information.                                               
Audits:                                                                                 
  OFR grant awards will not exceed $150,000 for each year. Nonfederal entities          
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal       
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in OMB Circular No. A-133           
  (Revised June 27, 2003 in Federal Register).                                          
Records:                                                                                
  The grantee shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant         
  funds are used for authorized purposes.                                               
Account Identification:                                                                 
  12-2278-0-1-151.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $2,700,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  From $2,500 to $150,000 each year.                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  Not available at this time.                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  The awards made pursuant to the OFR RFA will be subject to the requirements           
  of Title 22 of the Code of Federal Regulations, Part 226, Administration of           
  Assistance Awards to U.S. Non-Governmental Organizations, Part 202,                   
  Overseas Support of Supplies by Voluntary Non-Profit Relief Agencies, and the         
  applicable Standard Provisions for U.S. Non-Governmental Grantees. The                
  Standard Provisions and 22 CRF Parts 226 and 202 are available on the USAID           
  website at http://www.usaid.gov and                                                   


1682                                                                              11-08

  http://www.usaid.gov/policy/ads/cfr.html#22.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Ocean Freight Program Officer, Office of Private and Voluntary Cooperation,
  Bureau for Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance, United States
  Agency for International Development, Washington, DC 20523. Telephone:
  (202) 712-4795.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usaid.gov. USAID keyword: ofr
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The OFR Program provides small competitive grants to approximately 50 U.S.
  PVOs each year. PVOs are reimbursed for the costs to transport donated
  commodities, such as medical supplies, agricultural equipment, educational
  supplies and building equipment to developing countries.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Preference is given to applicants that have conformed to the evaluation criteria
  stated in the Request for Application.
98.004 NON-GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION
STRENGTHENING (NGO)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  The NGO Strengthening program aims to help local indigenous non-
  governmental organizations, networks, and intermediate service organizations
  become more efficient and effective in the delivery of development services.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are authorized through cooperative agreements with U.S. private
  voluntary organizations to carry out activities to improve the capacities of local
  indigenous non-governmental organizations in developing countries.
Applicant Eligibility:
  1. Applicants must meet the following eligibility requirements. Be registered as
  a PVO with USAID; Receive at least 20 percent of total annual financial
  support for its international programs from non-U.S. government sources; and
  2. Current Matching Grants recipients are eligible.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Direct beneficiaries are foreign private institutions or organizations; indirect
  beneficiaries are the recipients of improved service delivery in developing
  countries.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must be registered as a PVO with USAID. In addition, they must
  provide a 30 percent match for the proposed program; the match may be a
  combination of cash and in-kind. At a minimum, half of the total required match
  must be in cash. The Applicant must demonstrate ability to raise the match
  proposed. Actual and/or expected sources and amounts of the cost-share amount
  must be stipulated; they must propose in an eligible country or countries; have
  an established track record (minimum of five years) in planning, managing,
  monitoring and evaluating overseas development programs and demonstrated
  experience in local NGO capacity buildings; and, have completed an external
  evaluation of its NGO capacity strengthening activities within the last three
  years, not to be confused with a financial audit. PVC cannot finance any of the
  following programs: Academic research-oriented endeavors; Construction or
  commodity procurement; or Activities not focused on development, such as
  short-term emergency relief activities. USAID encourages applications for
  development activities that focus on conflict prevention, mitigation or resolution
  programs; Inconsistent with the Establishment Clause.
Preapplication Coordination:
  No preapplication coordination is required. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications are submitted in response to a Requests for Applications
  synopsized in FedGrants and published on the USAID Web site
  (http://www.usaid.gov/procurement_bus_opp/procurement/solicitation/). All
  applications must be submitted using the Standard Form 424. The RFA provides
  specific additional instructions regarding the contents of the narrative
  description of the activity, budget justification and other required information.
Award Procedure:
  Official notice of approved application is made by the Agreement Officer
  through the issuance of a Cooperative Agreement.
Deadlines:
  Specified in the published Request for Applications, which appears on the
  DCHA/PVC web site and in the Federal Register. The deadline for the last five-
