  year award was March 28, 2003.                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  The range is from 60 to 90 days.                                                    
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Extensions to the project period may be made if deemed appropriate by the           
  Agreement Officer.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  A cost-share of 30 percent of which at least half of the match must be cash and     
  the remaining half can be in kind contributions. Applicants must demonstrate        
  ability to provide the proposed match via letters of commitment; provide            
  financial and in-kind contributions of all non-USAID or private commercial          
  organizations involved in implementing this Cooperative Agreement; and              
  specify the cost share amount as a total dollar amount and per each donor.          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Cooperative agreements may be issued for a five-year period, and are generally      
  funded on a 12-month basis. Support beyond the first year is contingent upon        
  the availability of funds.                                                          
Reports:                                                                              
  Five-year detailed implementation and monitoring plans are required in the first    
  year. Recipients must submit progress reports. Reporting periods are semi-          
  annual. Comprehensive final reports are due no later than 90 days after the

  completion of projects. Expenditure reports are required 90 days after the end of

  each quarter.                                                                       
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised June 27,

  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,           
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  In accordance with 22 CFR Part 226.53, grantees are to maintain accounting          
  records for a minimum of 3 years after the end of the date of submission of the     
  final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other     
  action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year   
  period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and resolution 
  of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year period,   
  which In accordance with 22 CFR Part 226.53, grantees are to maintain               
  accounting records for a minimum of 3 years after the end of the date of            
  submission of the final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation,  
  audit or other action involving the records has been started before the expiration  
  of the 3-year period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action  
  and resolution of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-
  year period, whichever is later ever is later.                                      
Account Identification:                                                               
  72-1021-0-1-151.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $6,158,942; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Five-years awards range from $1.3 million to $3.25 million. The average award       
  is $2.4 million.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In Fiscal Year 2003, 13 cooperative agreements were awarded for FY 2003             
  through FY 2008.                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Grant administration policies are in 22 CFR 226, and may be found at                
  http://www.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/index.html. Internal USAID policy directives,           
  including standard formats, may be found in Automated Directive Systems             
  (ADS) Chapter 303. The ADS is available on the USAID website at                     
  http://www.usaid.gov/pubs/ads/. Other information regarding USAID's program         
  may be found at www.usaid.gov.                                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Tom Kennedy.                                                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  DCHA/PVC-ASHA.                                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.usaid.gov/our_work/cross-                                                
  cutting_programs/private_voluntary_cooperation/ngo.html.                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Grant funds are being used to provide technical assistance and training to          
  hundreds of local NGOs and NGO networks in Africa, Asia, the Caribbean, and         
  Central America.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Program Description (45 points) 1. Situational analysis accurately identifies,      
  justifies and prioritizes which NGO sector(s) will be addressed in the proposed     


                                                                                 11-08
  program. Provides compelling rationale for innovative technical approach and
  measurable effectiveness of proposed interventions. Clear and relevant empirical
  evidence and discussions that proposed interventions will result in achievement
  of overall proposed programmatic objectives in select countries. Demonstrates
  program impact by the end of year three. 2. Program Management Approach (30
  points Demonstrated effectiveness in organization/management of similar
  program activities to that of the proposed program activities. Effective and
  logical relationships have been shown between applicant and all subawardees.
  Staffing plan and proposed key personnel are appropriate for proposed activities.
  Integrity and soundness of innovative monitoring and evaluation plan as it
  relates to quantifiable measurement of progress and results under proposed
  program activities, including any the activities of any subaward(s); 3.
  Institutional Capabilities (15) Demonstrates prior experience and results in
  managing similar and relevant program activities in planning, managing,
  monitoring and evaluating overseas development programs in the area of NGO
  capacity building. Evidence of past achievement of successful results in NGO
  capacity strengthening and clear demonstration that proposed program reflects
  incorporation of lessons learned; and 4.Cost/Business Application (10 points)
  The SF 424 shows detailed budget and budget narrative itemizes program costs,
  shows level of effort, and proposed costs are reasonable and realistic in terms of
  programmatic activities. Selection The highest rated responsible applicant(s) will
  be recommended to receive award(s).
98.005 INSTITUTIONAL CAPACITY BUILDING (ICB)
   (Institutional Capacity Building)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended, Public Law 480, Title II.
OBJECTIVES:
  To strengthen the capacity of new and experienced Food for Peace Title II
  Partners, both to plan and implement effective food security programs which
  reduce vulnerability of food insecure populations, including in emergency
  situations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Project funds can be used for establishing systems, training staff and
  strengthening mechanisms for implementing Title II food security programs.
  Ineligible activities/costs include: (1) Activities which are not in support of
  existing or planned Title II activities; (2) Disaster-related personnel or activities
  not associated with food assistance, which otherwise are the responsibility of the
  Office of Foreign Disaster Assistance (OFDA) or which may be funded by
  USAIDs Regional Bureaus; (3) Procurement of Motor Vehicles.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private non-profit institutions/organizations are eligible for this program.
  Specifically, an organization must be a US Private Voluntary Organization
  (PVO) or cooperative headquartered in the US, that is registered with USAID as
  of the date of its application.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Private, non-profit institutions/organizations will benefit from this program
  along with vulnerable and food insecure populations in low income food deficit
  countries (LIFDCs) and least developed countries. (LDCs).
Credentials/Documentation:
  USAID Registration; Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility, and
  financial responsibility relative to the activity for which assistance is required.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submission of Technical and Cost Application (including SF 424 and 424a as
  required by a published Request for Applications.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are submitted to the Office of Procurement. All applications are
  reviewed for completeness by the recipient office and then given to a technical
  review committee for a competitive review. All committee members using
  criteria outlined in the Request for Applications score each application. Awards
  are negotiated based on the scoring of applications technical merit and cost.
Deadlines:
  This program is re-competed approximately every five years.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately three to four months from submission deadline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula, however, a ten (10) percent cost-share is
  required for this program and a twenty-five (25) percent cost share is
                                                                                    1683
