  recommended.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  This funding is available for up to five years under the current program.           
Reports:                                                                              
  Each award recipient is required to provide an annual narrative progress report     
  as well as quarterly financial report (SF 269, SF 269a (as applicable) and SF       
  272. Annual work-plans must be approved on by the Cognizant Technical               
  Officer on an annual basis as must all key personnel specified in the agreement.    
  One midterm and one final evaluation are also required components.                  
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB circular No A-133 (Revised June 27,        
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations,"          
  non-federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year except as noted     
  in OMB Circular A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  The grantee shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant       
  funds are used for authorized purposes.                                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-2278-0-1-151.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Up to $3.5 million per organization over five years.                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The current program assists PVOs to identify, assess and respond effectively to     
  emergency and developmental food insecurity situations using P.L. 480 Title II      
  food assistance in developing countries.                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Code of Federal Regulations Title 22, 226 and 228 Volume 1 Parts 1 to 299           
  (Revised as of April 1, 1999); USAID ADS 300 and cross references.                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Food for Peace; Grants Manager; Program Operations Division;

                                                                                      
  USAID; 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, NW; Washington, DC 20523.

                                                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.usaid.gov.

                                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  Funded activities have included: provision of training in food security

                                                                                      
  programming, food security assessments; food aid logistics, regulations; support

                                                                                      
  for setting up food aid tracking systems, improvement of capacity in monitoring     
  and evaluation and conducting studies and assessments to show how food can          
  best be used to decrease food insecurity.                                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Proposals are selected based upon technical and programmatic merit,                 
  organizational background, competence and experience, past performance and          
  financial plan.                                                                     
                                                                                      
98.006 FOREIGN ASSISTANCE TO AMERICAN SCHOOLS                                         
AND HOSPITALS ABROAD (ASHA)                                                           
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Section 214, The Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended.                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Foreign Assistance Program is dedicated to supporting long-term and             
  equitable economic growth and advancing U.S. foreign policy objectives by           
  supporting economic growth, agriculture and trade; global health; and               
  democracy, conflict prevention and humanitarian assistance. Within the context      
  of the U.S. Foreign Assistance Program, the objectives of the PVC-ASHA              
  program are to strengthen schools and hospitals that best demonstrate American      
  ideas and practices, and are likely to survive over a long term.                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds are authorized through grant agreements with private and non-profit           
  U.S. organizations to carry out activities in line with the Agency's objectives.    
  Funds are limited for direct support of activities conducted outside the United     
  States in furtherance of the Agency's strategic objectives. ASHA grants are         
  awarded through a competitive process.                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The applicant should be a non-profit U.S. organization, which either founded or     
  sponsors the institution for which assistance is sought. Preferably, the applicant  
  should be a tax-exempt organization under section 501C (3) of the Internal          


1684                                                                            11-08

  Revenue Code of 1954. The applicant must demonstrate a continuing
  supportive relationship with the overseas institution. Evidence of this support
  would be the provision of financial and management support for the institution.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries must be institutions located outside the U.S. and should not be
  under the control or management of a government or any other of its agencies.
  The majority of the users of these overseas institutions, e.g., students or patients,
  must be citizens of countries other than the U.S.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The overseas institutions must demonstrate competence in professional skills
  and exhibit sound management and financial practices. An applicant for a new
  overseas institution must present a strategy that demonstrates the ability to
  achieve professional competence, commitment to promote U.S. ideas and
  practices, and to operate in accordance with sound management and financial
  practices. Institutions must be open to all persons regardless of race, religion,
  sex, color, or national origin. All overseas institutions are expected to reflect
  favorably upon, and to increase the understanding as well as to enhance the
  image of the United States. An applicant requesting capital assistance for
  procurement of durable commodities and/or construction/renovation assistance
  must provide a firm estimate of the total cost (including cost share and U.S.
  contribution) for which assistance is requested. Such applicants must also
  provide information and assurances with respect to right to occupy the premises
  and/or the land upon which new construction is planned.
Preapplication Coordination:
  No pre-application coordination is required. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  PVC-ASHA grant process is competitive and encompasses a number of well
  established steps. Specifically, 1. The grant criteria, as published in the Federal
  Register. 2. An annual independent review that ranks the applications and
  makes recommendations. 3. The PVC-ASHA program management determines
  funding priorities based on the external review, prior grantee performance,
  geographic balance, focus of other ASHA grants in the same country, USAID
  Mission recommendations, and USAID agency objectives. 4. PVC- ASHA
  forwards the final funding recommendations to the Bureau for Democracy,
  Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance (DCHA) for approval, to the USAID
  Administrator for information, and to the U.S. Congress for notification.
Award Procedure:
  PVC-ASHA grant process is competitive and encompasses a number of well
  established steps described in the Application Procedure.
Deadlines:
  The deadline for submission of applications is June 30th of each year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The range is from 7 to 9 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Extensions to the project period may be made if deemed appropriate by PVC-
  ASHA. Subsequent grant applications for complementary or auxiliary activities
  may be submitted yearly to fund a previously PVC-ASHA-assisted project.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The ASHA program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
  However, cost-sharing by the U.S. sponsoring organizations and their overseas
  institutions are requested in the grant application. Demonstrated cost-sharing
  reflects favorably on the applicants request for assistance.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants that include construction may be issued for up to a five-year period,
  whereas grants for commodities, only, are normally issued for a period of
  eighteen to twenty-four months.
Reports:
  Grantees must submit quarterly progress reports and annual organizational
  reports. Comprehensive final Project Reports are due no later than 90 days after
  the completion of projects. Expenditure reports are required 30 days after the
  end of each progress reporting period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised June 24,
  1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $300,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Non-federal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133. An amendment to the definition of oversight agency for
  audit, effective July 28, 2003 stipulates that after December 31, 2003 The Office
  of Management and Budget (OMB) is issuing final revisions to Circular A-133,
  Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations. The
  purpose of these revisions is to (1) increase the threshold for audit from
  $300,000 to $500,000, (2) increase the threshold for cognizant agency for audit
  from $25 million to $50 million, and (3) make related technical changes to
  facilitate the determination of cognizant agency for audit and provide for Federal
  agency reassignment of oversight agency for audit.
