Records:                                                                               
  In accordance with 22 CFR Part 226.53, grantees are to maintain accounting           
  records for a minimum of 3 years after the end of the date of submission of the      
  final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other      
  action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year    
  period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and resolution  
  of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year period,    
  whichever is later.                                                                  
Account Identification:                                                                
  72-1021-0-1-151.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $16,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Range from $15 million to $20 million per year with an average of                    
  approximately $17 million.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  None.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Grant administration policies are in 22 CFR 226, and may be found at

                                                                                       
  http://www.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/index.html. Internal USAID policy directives,

                                                                                       
  including standard formats, may be found in Automated Directive Systems

                                                                                       
  (ADS) Chapter 303. The ADS is available on the USAID website at                      
  http://www.usaid.gov/pubs/ads/. Other information regarding USAID's program          
  may be found at www.usaid.gov.                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Office of American Schools and Hospitals Abroad, Bureau for Democracy,

                                                                                       
  Conflict, and Humanitarian Assistance.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  www.usaid.gov.                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  African Medical & Research School (Kenya) Procure commodities to upgrade a

                                                                                       
  training facility; Mulanje Mission Hospital (Malawi) Construct private

                                                                                       
  healthcare ward, procure furniture, medical and computer equipment;

                                                                                       
  Wilberforce Institute (South Africa) Construct, equip and furnish a multi-

                                                                                       
  purpose community development center; Nancy Fulwood Hospital (Pakistan)

                                                                                       
  procure medical diagnostic equipment, heart monitoring equipment and

                                                                                       
  furniture; American Farm School (Greece) renovate existing dormitories;

                                                                                       
  University of the Valley (Guatemala) construct telecommunications laboratory,

                                                                                       
  renovate math and science laboratories, procure file servers, desktop computers

                                                                                       
  and scanners.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                       
  1. The applicant should be a nonprofit U.S. organization, which either founded

                                                                                       
  or sponsors the institution for which assistance is sought. Preferably, the

                                                                                       
  applicant should be tax-exempt under Section 501C(3) of the Internal Revenue

                                                                                       
  Code of 1954. The applicant must demonstrate a continuing supportive

                                                                                       
  relationship with the institution. Evidence of this would be the provision of

                                                                                       
  financial and management support for the institution. 2. An instruction program

                                                                                       
  must serve the secondary or higher level and must reflect American educational

                                                                                       
  ideas and practices (education at the elementary school level will not be

                                                                                       
  supported). A school offering a broad-based academic program must include

                                                                                       
  instruction on the history, geography, political science, cultural institutions or

                                                                                       
  economics of the United States. English should be used in instruction or taught

                                                                                       
  as a second language. However, the foregoing subject matter and language

                                                                                       
  requirements need not apply to a school offering a specialized course of study.      
  3. Institutions are expected to reflect favorably upon and to increase               
  understanding of the United States. 4. A hospital center, in addition to being a     
  treatment facility, must be involved in medical education and research.              
  Programs for post graduate training of staff in the United States and programs       
  for the exchange of personnel with American institutions will be regarded as         
  evidence of ability to demonstrate American ideas and practices in medicine. 5.      
  The faculty and staff of a school or a hospital center should include a significant  
  number of U.S. citizens or other persons trained in U.S. institutions who are in     
  residence and teaching at the school or hospital on either a full-time or part-time  
  basis. 6. The majority of the users of any institution, e.g. students or patients,   
  must be citizens of countries other than the U.S. 7. An existing institution must    
  demonstrate competence in professional skills and must exhibit sound                 
  management and financial practices. An applicant for a new institution must          
  demonstrate the ability to achieve professional competence and to operate in         
  accordance with sound management and financial practices. 8. The institution         
  must be open to all persons regardless of race, religion, sex, color or national     
  origin. (The above shall not be construed to require enrollment of students of       
  both sexes at an educational institution enrolling boys or girls only.) Assistance   
  may not be used to train persons for religious pursuits or to construct buildings    
  or other facilities intended for worship or religious instruction. 9. The institution
  must be located outside the U.S. and should not be under the control or              
  management of a government or any of its agencies. The receipt of financial or       


                                                                                  11-08
  other assistance from a government or government agency or the observance of
  national educational or medical standards required by the country where the
  institution is located does not in itself mean that the institution is under the
  control or management of such government. 10. An applicant requesting
  capital construction assistance must provide information sufficient to permit a
  firm estimate of the total cost to the U.S. Government of the construction for
  which assistance is requested. Such an application must also provide
  information and assurances with respect to rights to the land on which
  construction is planned. 11. To help achieve the objectives of the Foreign
  Assistance Act and ensure that the American schools and Hospitals Abroad
  program is as geographically balanced as possible, special consideration will be
  given to applications for institutions which increase the geographic distribution
  of the program and contribute to the economic and social progress of areas that
  are the focus of A.I.D.'s development efforts.
98.007 FOOD FOR PEACE DEVELOPMENT ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM (DAP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Agriculture, Trade and Development Assistance Act of 1954, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To improve access, availability and utilization of food in food insecure
  environments abroad. The priority for Title II development programs is a focus
  on improving household nutrition and health status, especially in children and
  mothers, and on increasing agricultural productivity, including field production,
  post-harvest handling and transformation and marketing.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  U.S. and local Private Voluntary Organizations registered with USAID may
  submit proposals requesting commodities and cash to carry out food aid
  programs in food insecure countries. The activities outlined in new DAPs
  should be in conformity with USAID, host government and multilateral food
  security assessments and strategies. Coordination with USAID Mission
  development priorities for the associated countries is highly desirable; program
  and resources integration is encouraged. However, no proposal will be
  disapproved solely because it is not integrated. Proposals will be reviewed and
  considered eligible for approval so long as they do not violate the Bellmon
  Amendment or other statutory provisions, are consistent with the Food Aid Food
  Security policy paper, and address the host country's most serious problems in
  the areas of food access, availability, and utilization.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private non-profit institutions/organizations are eligible for this program.
  Specifically, an organization must be a Private Voluntary Organization (PVO) or
  cooperative. PVOs must be registered with USAID as of the date of its
  application. In order to be awarded a program the organization must also be
  registered with the Office of Food for Peace.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Private, non-profit institutions/organizations will benefit from this program
  along with vulnerable and food insecure populations in low income food deficit
  countries (LIFDCs) and least developed countries (LDCs).
Credentials/Documentation:
  USAID Registration; Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility, and
  financial responsibility relative to the activity for which assistance is required.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submission of Application (including SF 424 and 424a) as required by DAP
  guidelines and application instructions.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are submitted to the Office of Food for Peace. All applications are
  reviewed for completeness by the recipient office and then given to a technical
  review committee for a competitive review.
Deadlines:
  Applications have been due on or about May 15th each year for the start date of
  October 1st the following year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Up to 120 days following submission.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Possible.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula, though cost-sharing is encouraged.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  This funding is available for up to five years under the current program.
Reports:
  Each award recipient is required to provide an annual narrative progress report
                                                                                  1685
