  as well as quarterly financial report (SF 269, SF 269a (as applicable) and SF       
  272. Annual work-plans must be approved on by the Cognizant Technical               
  Officer on an annual basis.                                                         
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB circular No A-133 (Revised June 23,        
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations, non-       
  federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal    
  awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.      
  Non-federal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are    
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year except as noted in OMB         
  Circular A-133.                                                                     
Records:                                                                              
  The grantee shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant       
  funds and commodities are used for authorized purposes.                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-2278-0-1-151.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $350,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $1,000,000 to $25,000,000 over 3-5 years.                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The current program assists PVOs to identify, assess, and respond effectively to    
  developmental food insecurity situations using P.L. 480, Title II food assistance   
  in developing countries.                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Code of Federal Regulations Title 22, 211, 226 and 228 Volume 1 Parts 1 to 299      
  (Revised as of April 1, 1999); USAID ADS 300 and cross references.                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Food for Peace; Development Programs Division; USAID; 1300                
  Pennsylvania Avenue, NW; Washington, DC 20523.                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.usaid.gov.                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Funded activities have included: direct food distribution, health, nutritional and  
  agricultural training, food for work, food for training, monetization.              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Proposals are selected based upon assessed need, technical and programmatic         
  merit, organizational background, competence and experience, past performance       
  and financial plan. This is not a formula program.                                  
                                                                                      
98.008 FOOD FOR PEACE EMERGENCY PROGRAM (EP)                                          
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  AGENCY FOR AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Agriculture, Trade and Development Assistance Act of 1954, as amended, P.L.         
  480, Title II.                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To improve access, availability and utilization of food in food insecure            
  environments abroad. The priority for Title II emergency programs is to prevent     
  hunger and malnutrition in food insecure areas or countries.                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants; Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Private Voluntary Organizations may submit proposals requesting commodities         
  and cash to carry out food aid programs in food insecure areas or countries.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Private non-profit institutions/organizations are eligible for this program.        
  Specifically, an organization must be a Private Voluntary Organization (PVO) or     
  cooperative. If a U.S. based PVO, the organization must be registered with          
  USAID as of the date of its application. In order to be awarded a program the       
  organization must also be registered with the Office of Food for Peace.             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Private, non-profit institutions/organizations will benefit from this program       
  along with vulnerable and food insecure populations.

Credentials/Documentation:

  USAID Registration; Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility, and

                                                                                      
  financial responsibility relative to the activity for which assistance is required. 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                                
  Submission of Application (including SF 424 and 424a) in line with Emergency        
  Proposal Guidelines.                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Unsolicited emergency applications are submitted to the Office of Food for          
  Peace throughout the year to respond to natural disasters, complex emergencies      
  and post-emergency stabilization needs. An emergency appeal or disaster



1686                                                                            11-08

  declaration is the "triggering mechanism" that allows FFP to consider requests
  for emergency food assistance. All applications for assistance are reviewed for
  completeness and then given a technical review. Awards are negotiated based
  on a demonstrated need for food aid and the ability of the proposed assistance to
  respond to the indicated need(s).
Deadlines:
  Not applicable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Although there is no binding timeframe, emergency situations often require a
  quick response. Therefore, FFP/EP works with the objective of completing the
  proposal review within 21 working days of receipt of a complete proposal.
  Delays may occur when required information is not included in the proposal.
Appeals:
  Cooperating sponsors are given the opportunity to re-work their proposed
  programs to effectively meet demonstrated need.
Renewals:
  Possible.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula, though cost-sharing is encouraged.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Emergency Programs are approved for up to one year. The average time frame
  for an emergency response is six months to a year.
Reports:
  Project reports should be submitted to FFP/EP on a semi-annual basis unless
  otherwise established in the Transfer Authorization. Programs are evaluated on
  the basis of stated objectives agreed to with FFP, as part of the yearly program
  performance review and USAID Annual Report process. The reporting format is
  found in the Cooperating Sponsor's Transfer Authorization.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB circular No A-133 (Revised June 24,
  1997), Audits of States, Local Governments and Non-Profit Organizations, non-
  federal entities that expend financial assistance of $300,000 or more in Federal
  awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Non-federal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year except as noted in OMB
  Circular A-133.
Records:
  The grantee shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant
  funds and commodities are used for authorized purposes.
Account Identification:
  12-2278-0-1-151.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est not available; and FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Varies.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Emergency Programs use Public Law 480, Title II resources to meet the critical
  food needs of targeted groups, with the mission of saving lives and reducing
  suffering.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Code of Federal Regulations Title 22, 211, 226 and 228 Volume 1 Parts 1 to
  299; (Revised as of April 1, 1999); USAID ADS 300 and cross references.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Food for Peace; Emergency Programs Division; USAID; 1300
  Pennsylvania Avenue, NW; Washington, DC 20523.
Web Site Address:
  www.usaid.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funded activities have included: direct food distribution, health, food for work,
  monetization.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are selected based upon assessed need, technical and programmatic
  merit, organizational background, competence and experience, past performance
  and financial plan. This is not a formula program.
98.009 JOHN OGONOWSKI FARMER-TO-FARMER
PROGRAM
   (Development assistance program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPOMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, Section 501, The Agricultural
  Trade Development and Assistance Act of 1954 7 U.S.C. 1737.
OBJECTIVES:
