  Improve global food production and marketing by transferring technical skills of    
  the U.S. agricultural community to farmers in participating countries. The          
  purpose of the program is to assist farmers in increasing food production and       
  distribution, by improving the effectiveness of farming and marketing               
  operations."                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grant funds may be used to assist developing countries, middle-income               
  countries, emerging markets, sub-Saharan African countries, and Caribbean           
  Basin countries to: 1. increase farm production and farmer incomes by               
  increasing food production and distribution and improving the effectiveness of      
  the farming and marketing operations of agricultural producers in those             
  countries; 2. improve agricultural and agribusiness operations and agricultural     
  systems in those countries, including improving i) animal care and health; ii)      
  field crop cultivation; iii) fruit and vegetable growing; iv) livestock operations; 
  v) food processing and packaging; vi) farm credit; vii) marketing; viii) inputs;    
  and ix) agricultural extension, and strengthen cooperatives and other agricultural  
  groups in those countries, and 3. transfer the knowledge and expertise of           
  United States agricultural producers and businesses, on an individual basis, to     
  those countries while enhancing the democratic process by supporting private        
  and public agriculturally related organizations that request and support technical  
  assistance activities through cash and in-kind services.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The following types of organizations are eligible to apply for grants: agricultural 
  producers, agriculturalists, colleges and universities (including historically black
  colleges and universities, land grant colleges or universities, and foundations     
  maintained by colleges or universities), private agribusinesses, private            
  organizations (including grassroots organizations with an established and           
  demonstrated capacity to carry out such a bilateral exchange program), private      
  corporations, and nonprofit farm organizations. Applicants must also be             
  registered with USAID (if a U.S. PVO); and waive profits and/or fees under the      
  USAID grant (if a for-profit business).                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Farms, cooperatives, farmers associations, agricultural and food processing and     
  marketing enterprises, rural finance institutions and in some cases public entities 
  seeking assistance in improving agricultural policy and public services to the      
  agricultural sector in developing countries, middle-income countries, emerging      
  markets, sub-Saharan African countries, and Caribbean Basin countries.              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Organizations aspiring to implement the John Ogonowski Farmer to Farmer             
  Program, must be registered with USAID (if a U.S. PVO); and waive profits           
  and/or fees under the USAID grant (if a for-profit business). In addition they      
  should provide documentation that demonstrates that they have the                   
  organizational capacity to implement the program.                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  As may be specified in a published Request for Applications (RFA). This             
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  As may be specified in a published Request for Applications. This would             
  normally include, but would not necessarily be limited to Forms SF-424 and          
  424A, as well as the applicant organization's name, address, contact person and     
  information; project objectives; funding and budget; proposed partners;             
  executive summary, organizational overview, program description, program            
  management and structure; monitoring and impact assessment; cost proposal           
  with budget narrative; planning matrix; staffing plans with resumes of key          
  personnel; letters from proposed partners evidencing knowledge of the program       
  and agreement to participate; evidence of concurrence from USAID missions in        
  countries of proposed implementation; and a summary of USAID-financed               
  activities conducted over the three years preceding the application.                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  As may be specified in a published Request for Applications (RFA).                  
  Applications are submitted to the Office of Acquisitions and Assistance, Attn:      
  Farmer-to-Farmer Program, United States Agency for International                    
  Development, 1300 Pennsylvania Avenue, Washington DC 20523.                         
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Specified in the published Request for Applications which appear on the USAID

  web site and in the Federal Register.                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Approximately three to four months from the receipt of applications.                
                                                                                      
Appeals:

  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated.          
                                                                                      
Renewals:

  Not applicable.                                                                     
                                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  There is no formula for matching requirements. Applicants may be encouraged         
  to achieve a target match which would be incorporated in the Request for            
  Applications.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Cooperative agreements are generally for a period of five years and may be          




                                                                                 11-08
  extended for a total period not to exceed ten years. The length of grants is also
  governed by the length of the governing legislation.
Reports:
  Each award recipient is required to provide Annual Work Plans, Semi-Annual
  Progress Reports and Quarterly financial statements (Form 269A). Additional
  reporting may be required to respond to specific requests for information.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The grantee shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant
  funds are used for authorized purposes.
Account Identification:
  12-2278-0-1-151.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $10,600,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Total program budget has averaged approximately $10.6 million per year over
  the past 5 years. Currently there are eleven awards. Awards are in the range of
  $1.5 million to $16 million dollars for programs ranging from five to nine years.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The programs are currently implemented by six U.S. PVOs and two Historically
  Black Universities that often work with a range of additional sub-grantees. The
  eight implementers, during the last two years, sent 1,121 volunteers (14%
  women) to 40 countries. Volunteers worked with 1,032 host organizations
  (cooperatives and farmer groups, technical support agencies, rural financial
  services agencies, private businesses, and non-governmental organizations).
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Code of Federal Regulations Title 22, 228 Volume 1, Parts 1 to 299 Revised as
  of April 1, 1999; USAID Automated Directive System, specifically Series 300
  and cross-references.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Dr. Shirley Pryor, Program Manager, Farmer-to-Farmer Program,
  EGAT/AG/ATGO, United States Agency for International Development,
  Washington, DC 20523. Telephone: (202) 712-4086. Fax: (202) 216-3579. E-
  Mail Contact: spryor@usaid.gov. Robert Navin, Technical Advisor, Farmer-to-
  Farmer Program, EGAT/AG/ATGO, United States Agency for International
  Development, Washington, DC 20523. Telephone: (202) 712-5837. Fax: (202)
  216-3579. E-Mail Contact: rnavin@usaid.gov. Eric Benschoter, Monitoring and
  Evaluation Specialist, Farmer-to-Farmer Program, The Mitchell Group, 1325 G
  St. NW, Suite 400, Washington, DC 20005. Telephone: (202) 219-0476. Fax:
  (202) 219-0508. E-Mail Contact: ebenschoter@afr-sd.org.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usaid.gov/our_work/agriculture/farmer_to_farmer.htm
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Agribusiness development; Dairy production and marketing; Cooperative and
  farmer association development; Crop diversification; farm management
  improvement; Field crop production and marketing; Rural financial services;
  Horticultural production and marketing; Livestock production and marketing;
  Agricultural market development; and Agricultural technical support services
  development.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are defined specifically in the RFAs when issued. Generally the
  technical and organizational criteria are based on potential capacity to efficiently
  recruit and field volunteers overseas, identify host enterprises in the targeted
  countries and plan and organize volunteer assignments in to coherent programs
  that have significant measurable economic impact.
98.010 DENTON PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPOMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Title 10, U.S.C. Section 402.
OBJECTIVES:
  To put the empty space on U.S. Military transport to good use by providing
  humanitarian relief transportation for nongovernmental organizations or private
  citizens, at little or no cost to them.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Provision of Specialized Services.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
                                                                                   1687
