  The Denton Program is a commodity transportation program that is jointly            
  administered by the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID), the          
  Department of State (DOS), and the Department of Defense (DOD). The                 
  program provides the authority for DOD to use any extra space on U.S. military      
  cargo aircraft to transport donated goods for humanitarian relief. The minimum      
  and maximum weight allowance for Denton shipments is 2,000 lbs. and 100,000         
  lbs., respectively. Time and or temperature sensitive cargo, perishable food        
  stuff, pharmaceutical samples, passengers, livestock, hazardous material, and       
  vehicles requiring a special driver are ineligible commodities under the Denton     
  program.                                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Applicants must be an U.S. based private voluntary organization (PVOs), non-        
  governmental organization (NGOs) or small organization.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  PVOs, NGOs and International Organizations (IOs) in eligible countries.             
Credentials/Documentation:

  Evidence that the goods are in usable condition; the consignee in country is        
  legitimate and has the capacity to receive and distribute goods; and the goods

  are packaged properly and in compliance with U.S. military procedures.              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Donors need to contact the Denton program officer prior to submitting an            
  application to determine whether the program is possible in a specific country.     
  Applicants must provide a detailed packing list of the goods; identify staff in-    
  country to ensure proper pick-up and distribution of commodities; provide duty-     
  free Certification for the country to which the commodities will be shipped; and    
  ensure compliance with all legal requirements in the recipient country. This        
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                 
                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

  All prospective donors are encouraged to apply online for U.S. military space       
  available transportation under the Denton program. Information on the               
  guidelines and the application can be accessed at www.dentonfunded.ida.org.         
                                                                                      
  The procedures are specified in the application. These include the applicant

                                                                                      
  name, address, contact information; consignee name, address, contact

                                                                                      
  information; the description of beneficiaries, impact areas, distribution plan; the

                                                                                      
  detailed list of items; the cargo weight, volume and U.S. warehouse location;

                                                                                      
  and the duty-free certification.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  The Denton Program requires the coordination of USAID, DOS, and DOD                 
  throughout the approval process. Applications take from 6-8 weeks to be             
  approved and an additional three months or more (depending upon availability)       
  to receive Department of Defense space-available transport. Neither approval        
  nor transportation is guaranteed.                                                   
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Donors may submit only one application per country at a time. They cannot           
  reapply to a country until the prior transportation request has been completed.     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Since the Denton program is a space available program, it is impossible to          
  predict when transportation will be provided; therefore, no guarantees can be       
  made regarding completion of a donated humanitarian goods shipment.                 
Reports:                                                                              
  Donors must submit a report to USAID/Washington within 30 days after the            
  goods are distributed overseas, describing in detail how they were in fact          
  distributed, to whom and how the goods were used. This report will be compared      
  with the distribution plan provided as part of the application for transport        
  assistance. Failure to submit the report in a timely manner will result in the      
  donor's future disqualification from the participation in the Denton Program.       
Audits:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Records:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-2278-0-1-151.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $50,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Approximately $50,000 per year for inspections.                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Fiscal year 2003 Shipments Completed: 25 Tonnage Shipped: 400,000 pounds            
  Number of Countries Served: 13.                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  See www.dentonfunded.ida.org.                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable.

1688                                                                            11-08

Headquarters Office:
  Denton Program Officer, Office of Private and Voluntary Cooperation, Bureau
  for Democracy, Conflict and Humanitarian Assistance, United States Agency for
  International Development, Washington, DC 20523. Telephone: (202) 712-
  4795.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usaid.gov/hum_response/pvc/ and www.dentonfunded.ida.org.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All applications that conform to the stated guidelines and procedures will be
  accepted for space-available transportation of the donated commodities under
  the Denton program.
98.011 GLOBAL DEVELOPMENT ALLIANCE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  Foreign Assistance Act of 1961, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  The Global Development Alliance (GDA) business model provides a framework
  for enabling public-private alliances (PPA's) to carry-out activities that promote
  international development objectives. Through the leveraging, sharing the cost
  of resources and pooled expertise, the PPA model seeks to achieve greater
  impact than individual entities working alone. For further information please
  visit http://www.usaid.gov/our_work/global_partnerships/gda/.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are authorized through grants, cooperative agreements, and Leader-with
  Associate Grants, to U.S. and non-U.S. for profit and not for profit organizations
  to carry out activities to enhance development objectives. Potential for-profit
  applicants should note that USAID policy prohibits the payment of fee/profit to
  recipients under assistance instruments. Potential partners should note that cash
  and in-kind contributions, including volunteered services qualify as cost-share or
  leveraging, however forgone profit does not qualify as cost-sharing or
  leveraging. The resource contribution of the partners must be at least as great as
  that requested of USAID to achieve a minimum 1:1 leverage ratio.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The eligibility criteria for potential alliance partners is broad, and the following
  list of potential partners is for illustrative purposes: U.S. and non-U.S. Non-
  Governmental Organizations, U.S. and non-U.S. private businesses, foundations,
  business and trade associations, international organizations, U.S. and non-U.S.
  colleges and universities, U.S. cities and states, other U.S. Government agencies,
  civic groups, other donor governments, host country governments, regional
  organizations, host country parastals, individual and group philanthropies and
  funds etc. Non-Governmental Organizations (NGO) do not need to be registered
  as Private Voluntary Organizations to submit a proposal.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries are foreign governments, foreign public or private institutions or
  organizations, and/or the people of the developing world.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants who have never received a grant from USAID may be required to
  provide additional documentation that will be requested by the Operating Unit
  issuing the grant.
Preapplication Coordination:
  USAID requires the use of brief concept papers which will allow for formal
  Agency feedback prior to the submission of a full application. Concept papers
  may be submitted to the USAID Mission, Washington Operating Unit or to the
  GDA Secretariat. Prospective alliance partners are strongly encouraged to seek
  field Mission or Washington operating unit input prior to submission of a
  proposal. For further guidance on concept papers, please see the GDA website
  at: http://www.usaid.gov/our_work/global_partnerships/gda/. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants are encouraged to apply at individual USAID Missions and operating
  units. The GDA Secretariat staff is readily available to meet with prospective
  partner organizations and can assist organizations with points of contacts within
  USAID. The Secretariat may also provide feedback and comments on applicant
  concept papers. USAID encourages applicants to use the standard format that
  will be in the formal solicitation to be issued at www.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Official notice of approved application is made by the Agreement Officer
  through the issuance of a Grant Award, Cooperative Agreement or a Leader with
  Associate Grant.
Deadlines:
  This is an open announcement; Deadlines are not applicable. Other solicitations
