  that incorporate Public-Private Alliances may provide deadlines. See specific      
  announcements at www.grants.gov for required submission deadlines.                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  The range for receiving a response is from 60 to 90 days.                          
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Extensions to the PPA project period may be made if deemed appropriate by the      
  Agreement Officer. Existing awards may be modified to include alliance             
  components.                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The total USAID funds committed over the life of the alliance activity must        
  leverage at least the same amount of total partner resources, with preference      
  given for higher leveraging. Partner contributions (non-USAID funds) must          
  include private (meaning non-public sector) resources at least equal to 25% of     
  the value of the requested USAID resources. Resources may be cash or in-kind       
  contributions such as technical assistance, services, products, technology, and

  software.                                                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Grants, cooperative agreements and leader with associate grants may be issued      
  for up to a five-year period, and are generally funded on a 12-month basis.        
  Support beyond the first year is contingent upon the availability of funds.        
Reports:                                                                             
  Grantees must submit progress reports. Reporting periods vary from quarterly to    
  annually. Comprehensive final reports are due no later than 90 days after the      
  completion of projects. Expenditure reports are required 90 days after the end of  
  each reporting period.                                                             
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular A-133 (Revised June 27,          
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,          
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  In accordance with 22 CFR Part 226.53, grantees are to maintain accounting         
  records for a minimum of 3 years after the end of the date of submission of the    
  final expenditure report. If any litigation, claim, negotiation, audit or other    
  action involving the records has been started before the expiration of the 3-year  
  period, the records shall be retained until completion of the action and resolution
  of all issues which arise from it, or until the end of the regular 3-year period,  
  whichever is later.                                                                
Account Identification:                                                              
  72-1021-0-1-151 Development Assistance; 72-1095-0-1-151 Child Survival and         
  Health Program Funds; 72-1037-0-1-152 Economic Support Fund; 72-1010-0-1-          
  151 Assistance for Eastern Europe and the Baltic States; 72-1093-0-1-151           
  Assistance for the Independent States of the Former Soviet Union; 72-1035-0-1-     
  151 International Disaster Assistance.                                             
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $395,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Mission and Washington Operating Units generally make awards for up to five        
  years. PPAs can be made at small and large dollar values depending upon the        
  needs, partner contribution level and resources being allocated by USAID.          
  Typical awards range from $300,000 to $1,000,000 with GDA Incentive Funds.         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  USAID's alliance activities pursue multiple strategic objectives in more than 100  
  countries around the world. USAID has funded nearly 400 alliances with $1.5        
  billion of resources, and leveraged over $4.6 billion in Partner resources. The    
  objectives of these alliances support the Agency's objectives to: (1) Advance the  
  growth of democracy and good governance, including civil society, the rule of      
  law, respect for human rights, and religious freedom; (2) Strengthen world         
  economic growth, development, and stability, while expanding opportunities for     
  U.S. businesses and ensuring economic security for the nation; (3) Improve         
  health, education, environment, and other conditions for the global population;    
  and (4) Minimize the human costs of displacement, conflicts, and natural           
  disasters.                                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Grant administration policies are in 22 CFR 226, and may be found at               
  http://www.gpo.gov/nara/cfr/index.html. Internal USAID policy directives,          
  including standard formats, may be found in Automated Directive Systems            
  (ADS) Chapter 303. The ADS is available on the USAID website at                    
  http://www.usaid.gov/pubs/ads/. Other information regarding USAID's program        
  may be found at www.usaid.gov.                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Jim Thompson, GDA Secretariat, 202-712- 4272, United States Agency for             
  International Development, Washington, DC 20523. USAID Mission's contact           
  information can be found at www.usaid.gov.                                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                 


                                                                                11-08
  GDA Secretariat, U.S. Agency for International Development, Washington D.C.
  20523.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usaid.gov/our_work/global_partnerships/gda/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  See the GDA Secretariat website:
  http://www.usaid.gov/our_work/global_partnerships/gda/.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Public/Private Alliance proposals will be evaluated based upon the criteria
  expressed in the formal solicitation that will be posted at www.grants.gov
  Individual USAID Missions or Operating Units may also issue competitive
  solicitations with a Public/Private Alliance model and the criteria may differ
  from those noted in the Global Development Alliance Secretariat's
  announcement.
98.012 USAID DEVELOPMENT PARTNERSHIPS FOR
UNIVERSITY COOPERATION AND DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  UNITED STATES AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT,
  BUREAU FOR ECONOMIC GROWTH, AGRICULTURE AND TRADE,
  OFFICE OF EDUCATION
AUTHORIZATION:
  Worldwide higher education partnerships for development program (936-5861
  project number). Authorized June 26, 1997, Congressional reference: CP 1997,
  Statistical Annex, page 306.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of the program is to support and advance the achievement of
  USAID's strategic objectives through the application of higher education
  resources, talents and expertise.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance can be used by U.S. institutions of higher education to collaborate
  with institutions of higher education in developing countries to conduct projects
  that address critical development needs. Projects must be advance USAID
  development objectives in the proposed country of activity. A comprehensive list
  of prior activities funded under this agreement can be found at
  www.HEDProgram.org/. Use restrictions are also specified in the terms of each
  solicitation issued under the cooperative agreement. Additional information
  regarding the cooperative agreement can be found at www.HEDProgram.org/.
Applicant Eligibility:
  US institutions of higher education, including community colleges, are eligible
  to apply, subject to the terms of any solicitation. Solicitations and any
  additional eligibility requirements unique to the solicitation are published at
  www.HEDProgram.org/.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  US institutions of higher education, including community colleges, are eligible
  to apply, subject to the terms of any solicitation. Solicitations and any
  additional eligibility requirements unique to the solicitation are published at
  www.HEDProgram.org/.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Solicitations and respective application procedures are announced via the Higher
  Education for Development Office. (See www.HEDProgram.org/).
Award Procedure:
  Applications and proposals are peer-reviewed. Awards are made to the top
  proposals under the terms of the solicitation, subject to USAID approval and
  available funding. The awards are issued under USAID's cooperative agreement
  with the American Council on Education. Additional information can be found
  at www.HEDProgram.org/.
Deadlines:
  Application deadlines are specified in each solicitation. Solicitations can be
  found at www.HEDProgram.org/.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applicants should expect between 45-90 days for approval or disapproval.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There is a requirement for matching. Applicants may be encouraged to achieve
  a target match which would be incorporated in the solicitation.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
                                                                                1689
