Reports:                                                                             
  Each award recipient is required to provide Annual Work Plans, Semi-Annual         
  Progress Reports and Quarterly financial statements (Form 269A). Additional        
  reporting may be required to respond to specific requests for information.         
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations,      
  non-federal entities that expand financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  The grantee shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant      
  funds are used for authorized purposes.                                            
Account Identification:                                                              
  72-1021-0-1-151 Development Assistance 72-1095-0-1-151 Child Survival and          
  Health Program Fund 72-1037-0-1-151 Economic Support Fund.                         
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $25,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Averaging $22.6 million per year from FY 04 to FY 06 and ranging from $14.3        
  million to $31 million.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Accomplishments: Higher Education for Development (HED), formerly                  
  Association Liaison Office for University Cooperation in Development (ALO)         
  The HED provides support to the U.S. higher education community (HEC) to           
  facilitate a working partnership with USAID. It is designed to support the         
  achievement of USAID's strategic objectives, provide support to higher             
  education institutions in USAID presence countries, strengthen their roles in      
  addressing development problems, and increase the attention given to               
  international development issues on U.S. campuses and by constituents and          
  cooperating institutions. HED's work has been largely focused on support of        
  higher education partnerships -- collaborative projects between U.S. colleges or   
  universities and similar institutions overseas. To date, HED has financed 226      
  partnerships in 59 countries where USAID operates. There are two categories of     
  HED partnerships: Institutional Partnerships (IPs) and Special Initiatives (SIs).  
  IPs are funded centrally, whereas SIs are funded by Missions or                    
  AID/Washington Bureaus and Offices. Overall, the program has involved at           
  least 139 U.S. colleges and universities and 174 higher education institutions     
  overseas. Partnerships produce results and or products that support USAID          
  Missions strategic objectives in agriculture/agri-business, economic growth and    
  trade, environment and natural resource management, education, democracy and       
  governance, HIV/AIDS, community development, workforce development,                
  internet and information technology, population, health, and nutrition, HED        
  Assessment Findings: Institutional Partnerships. A key goal of HED is to           
  promote partnerships and strategic alliances among higher education institutions   
  for development cooperation. The primary means for achieving this goal has         
  been the IP program. The assessment team's principal findings with respect to      
  IPs are as follows: Achieving Objectives. IPs aim primarily at change in the       
  overseas higher education institution that will enhance its capability in a sector 
  of interest to USAID. HED's outreach and selection processes have been             
  effective in attracting and incorporating a large and diverse group of U.S. higher 
  education institutions (universities, colleges, community colleges and             
  historically black colleges) and overseas partner institutions. IPs have been      
  undertaken on a very broad array of topics reflecting the interests and priorities 
  of the key individuals involved. Most IPs achieve their planned results, and       
  many go beyond initial plans to achieve unanticipated positive results. The        
  achievements of many individual IPs are particularly impressive in view of the     
  small amount of USAID resources provided to them. Impact. Measuring the            
  impact of individual IPs is difficult, and, in fact, little has been done in this  
  respect so far. The team's observations of 34 IPs suggest, however, that many      
  will have or are likely to have significant impact, at least on their immediate    
  environments. Relation to USAID. While most Missions are generally aware of        
  the HED program, in many, there is little knowledge of the centrally-funded IPs    
  operating in their countries and, as a result, they do not take full advantage of  
  the possibilities. Special Initiatives. SIs have several advantages over IPs,      
  including larger budgets, longer terms, and potential renewal. The funding         
  comes from the Missions, which set the priorities and desired outcomes, prepare    
  the scope of work for the request for applications (RFAs), and often select the    
  host country partners. The Missions are also actively involved in planning,        
  implementation, and monitoring. Overall Partnership Findings. Over the course      
  of its work the team developed a high regard for both the IP and SI programs.      
  Multiple instances were found of projects that achieved or were achieving their    
  objectives and, in many cases, went well beyond their initial scope. The           
  principal shortcoming was the lack,overall, of sufficient                          
  integration of partnerships, particularly IPs, into USAID strategic frameworks.    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  See www.HEDProgram.org/.                                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                            


1690                                                                           11-08

  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Martin Hewitt, Higher Education Community Liaison, USAID, 1300
  Pennsylvania Avenue, N.W., Washington DC 20523. Phone: (202) 712-1531.
  Fax: (202) 216-3229 Email: mhewitt@usaid.gov.
Web Site Address:
  www.usaid.gov; www.HEDProgram.org/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Alamo Community College District/Universidad Tecnologico de Coahuila
  Award Date: 2004 TIES Cycle II Award Amount: $299,017 Cost Share:
  $512,976 Other Partners: El Paso Community College; Texas State Technical
  College at Harlingen; Universidad Tecnologica de Matamoros; Universidad
  Tecnologica de Cuidad Juarez The partnership will increase the productivity of
  maquiladora manufacturing workers. The partners will develop an international
  institutional partnership between three Mexican technical colleges and three
  American community colleges to integrate proven workforce development
  solutions to help Mexico adapt to global competition and new technology, and to
  fill emerging gaps in workforce skills in the maquiladora manufacturing sector.
  Three hundred Mexican manufacturing/maquiladora workers at risk of
  displacement will participate in courses on short-term workforce solutions.
  Thirty advanced manufacturing workforce development training courses will be
  delivered in priority areas. In addition, seven scholarships will be provided to
  personnel from Mexican technical colleges to attend a Texas A&M University-
  Corpus Christi graduate-level certificate program in Higher Education
  Administration Community College Workforce Development Administration
  and Leadership. Cornell University/Bahir Dar University Award Date: 2003
  Award Amount: $117,618 Cost Share: $87,523 Other Partners: Amhara Micro-
  Enterprise Agriculture Research Extension and Watershed Management Project;
  Amahara Regional Agricultural Research Institute The partners aim to enhance
  agricultural production to provide food security programs for current and future
  generations in Ethiopia. The partnership is training a cadre of young
  professionals in integrated watershed management in Ethiopia. The focus of the
  partnership is on Lake Tana and its watershed, in the vicinity of Bahir Dar
  University. Partnership activities include the interdisciplinary training of 100
  students who, once they graduate, will better manage existing natural resources.
  Highline Community College/False Bay College Award Date: 2003 Award
  Amount: $125,000 Cost Share: $48,850 Other Partners: Disabled Persons of
  South Africa (DPSA); Students Health and Welfare Centers Organization
  (SHAWCO); Western Cape Education Department; Altitude Workforce
  Solutions The partners are developing a model to provide workforce training
  and job placement for the disabled. By building the capacity of False Bay
  College (FBC) to work with businesses, nongovernmental organizations, and the
  South African government agencies responsible for workforce development, the
  partnership is demonstrating that people with disabilities can be integrated into
  the workplace through a supported employment model. FBC administrators and
  a representative from the organization, Disabled Persons of South Africa, visited
  Highline Community College (HCC) to learn how the model works. Two HCC
  specialists on supported employment conducted a workshop for FBC instructors
  and staff on HCC's supported employment model and helped develop an
  orientation program for future participants. The partners have identified
  potential employers and are finishing work on a curriculum that will address the
  full spectrum of student needs and employer demands. The National Department
  of Education has recognized FBC's commitment to providing workforce training
  for the disabled by selecting FBC to be the pilot Further Education Training
  Institution for inclusive education. Indiana University/South East European
  University Special Initiative: 2001 Award Amount: $2,325,000 Cost Share:
  $584,499 Other Partners: Indiana Consortium for International Programs
  USAID/Macedonia, USAID/Europe and Eurasia Bureau; Organization for
  Security and Cooperation in Europe; Sabre Foundation This Special Initiative is
  building the institutional capacity of South East European University (SEEU) as
  a new multilingual, mult i- ethnicinstitution that offersa
  Western-style curriculum, high-quality teaching, action-oriented research, and
  community outreach. Among significant accomplishments, the partnership has
  developed and taught an intensive ESL program for students and professionals at
  SEEU and redesigned the SEEU computer center and trained 22 local full-time
  and part-time instructors. The partners have begun a one-semester computer
  literacy curriculum, required of all students, and sponsored visits to SEEU by
  U.S. faculty in business, education, communications, law, and public
  administration to consult on curriculum design, teach courses, offer faculty
  workshops, and conduct joint research projects. The partners selected and
  enrolled six SEEU junior faculty for M.A. fellowships at IU and other Indiana
  institutions, who will return to SEEU to teach. Also, the partners have enrolled
  SEEU ESL teachers in an online certificate course in language education, the
  first at any Macedonian university. SEEU's Chief Information Technology
  Officer took a three-week training program in university information systems
  technology at IU, and 10 IT instructors from SEEU have undertaken a second
  distance IT course leading to an IU certificate. The partners have delivered
  approximately 16,000 textbooks and reference materials to the SEEU library,
