donated by the Sabre Foundation. An IU library consultant visited SEEU for two     
weeks and an SEEU librarian traveled to Indiana to for one month of training at    
U.S. partner institutions. SEEU has also received much-needed educational          
support equipment from IU partners. Langston University/Debub University,          
Awassa College of Agriculture Award Date: 1998, 2000 EDDI Sustainability           
(completed June 2003) Award Amounts: $100,000 (1998), $100,000 (2000               
EDDI) Final Cost Share: $119,219 Other Funds Leveraged: $6,000 Other               
Partner: Oklahoma State University Partners enhanced the teaching, research,       
and extension capability of the Awassa College of Agriculture at Debub             
University (DU), and enhanced food security of the surrounding villages by         
establishing women's groups for goat production. More than 150 women               
received two goats each and were trained in dairy production. Two DU staff

members received training in surgical procedures, and three visiting scholars

from DU completed research at Langston University on aspects of goat

production relevant to Ethiopian conditions. A DU faculty member received

training in adult education and extension at Oklahoma State University (OSU).

This faculty member subsequently conducted a workshop on adult education and

extension for DU staff, in conjunction with an OSU faculty member. Two staff

members from agricultural high schools received training in goat production.

Partners also purchased equipment and installed a computer lab at DU and

improved computer facilities on the campus. They conducted three seminars at

DU on multimedia applications and their role in classroom instruction and

extension activities. Partners then used multimedia in extension presentations to

villagers participating in the goat-raising program. Tiffin University

(GCDC)/University of Bucharest Award Date: 1999 (completed January 2003)

Award Amount: $98,289 Cost Share: $86,000 Other Funds Leveraged: $123,947

Other Partners: Council of International Programs USA (CIPUSA); Ministry of

Justice; Ministry of the Interior; Ohio Department of Development; Ohio

Attorney General's Office; Office of the Governor of the State of Ohio; local

police departments; Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms; Drug

Enforcement Agency; Department of Health and Human Services; National

Association of the Fraternal Order of Police; San Diego State University; Terra

Community College; Ohio State University; Loyola University; Women's

Organization of Moldova; the probation center in Timisoara This partnership

created a School of Criminal Justice (SCJ) at the University of Bucharest (UB),

the first ofits kind in Eastern a d Central Europe. The partners developed a

master'-level criminal justice course. In September 2001, UB graduated its first

class of 15 master's degree students from the SCJ. Students in the course

included the general director of Romania's prison system and members of his

staff, administrators from the Ministries of Justice and Interior, and members of

the police force. The partners added probation, juvenile justice, parole, and

restorative justice to the curriculum, areas new to Romania's legal landscape.

Introduction to Criminal Justice, a book written by the Tiffin University

partnership director, was translated into Romanian to be used as the seminal text

for the program. The president and prime minister of Romania affirmed their

support for expanding the master's-level program to five other Romanian

universities, including the West Timisoara University, where partner faculty will

serve as visiting professors. University of Illinois, Urbana Champaign/Institute

of Technology, Bandung Award Date: 1999 (completed May 2003) Award

Amount: $100,000 Cost Share: $168,320 Other Funds Leveraged: $237,250

Other Partners: Indonesia Partnership for Local Government Initiatives; Emerson

Park Development Corporation; Forum Jatinangor This partnership executed a

university-community collaboration model to strengthen local governance.

Partners conducted five workshops with 198 participants at the start of the

project to identify the most pressing development issues arising from the rapid

growth of Jatinangor, an emerging urban area adjacent to Bandung. The partners

conducted annual training programs at the University of Illinois at Urbana-

Champaign's (UIUC) Local Government Management Institute to introduce

Indonesian faculty to participatory planning in the context of U.S. local

government. Two members of Forum Jatinangor, a grassroots organization,

participated in the two-week institute and one member remained for a

monthlong internship with the East St. Louis Action Research Project and the

Emerson Park Development Corporation. The partners developed five new

courses in city, regional, and international planning. The partnership's workforce

development activities included establishing a skills retooling program for

pedicab drivers in Jatinangor and supporting retention of local workers in the

woodworking industry. University of Massachusetts Amherst/Afghanistan

Education University Award Date: 2003 Award Amount: $124,993 Cost Share:

$31,113 Other Funds Leveraged: $5,000 The goal of this partnership is to build

local institutional capacity for rapid teacher training in basic education. In

response to the urgent educational needs in Afghanistan, the partners are

increasing the Afghanistan Education University's (AEU) capability to train

accelerated learning facilitators at the community level, develop culturally

appropriate training materials, and promote dialogue on the role of rapid teacher

training in AEU's academic program. To support project activities, the partners

are establishing a Center for Active and Accelerated Learning at AEU, which

will house project materials, provide logistical support for workshops and other

linkage activities, and provide translation services. Originally, the partners had

planned to train only 10 master trainers, but due to overwhelming demand and



                                                                             11-08 
  despite enormous infrastructure and security challenges'they have trained 38 to
  date, who, in turn, have conducted workshops for 371 participants in six
  provinces.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria vary by solicitation and are specified for each solicitation. In general,
  proposals are reviewed for the quality of the proposed activities and the impact
  such activities will likely have on critical development problems and objectives.
  Cost-effectiveness, short and long-term impacts, capacity development, cost-
  share, leverage and the qualifications of the personnel and institutions are all
  important. See www.HEDProgram.org/ for exemplary solicitations and
  associated proposal review criteria.
                                                                                  1691
