Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Based on program needs and availability of annual funding.                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Recipients share some project or program costs. The cost-sharing arrangements     
  are developed between USDA and the recipients in advance of the program           
  unless otherwise stated by Congress.                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Up to 1 year from the date of award. Funds are made available as required to      
  cover expenditures.                                                               
Reports:                                                                            
  Requirements are specifically indicated in the award documents and may vary       
  for given programs; however, quarterly financial reports, annual progress         
  reports, final financial and final summary progress reports are generally         
  required.                                                                         
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133, "Audits of          
  States, Local governments, and Non-profit Organizations," State and local         
  governments, and non-profit organizations that expend Federal financial           
  assistance of $500,000 or more within any fiscal year shall have either a single  
  audit or (in certain cases) a program specific audit made for that year. Audits   
  may be conducted less frequently under conditions specified in A-133.             
Records:                                                                            
  Instruction provided in the Notice of Award. Grantees are expected to maintain    
  separate records for each grant to ensure that funds are used for the purpose for 
  which the grant was made. Records are subject to inspection during the life of    
  the grant and for three years thereafter.                                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  12-1600-0-1-352; 12-9971-0-7-352. Wildlife Services (WS) include                  
  Aquaculture WS Methods.                                                           
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $164,399,210; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not           
  reported.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  None.                                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Selected examples of progress: Brucellosis class free status States, FY 05 51, FY 
  06 est 50, FY 06 est 51; Tuberculosis-accredited free States, FY 05 51, FY 06     
  est 47, FY 07 est 47.                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  7 CFR 3015, Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations; 7 CFR 3017,                   
  Governmentwide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and                      
  Governmentwide Requirements for Drug- Free Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR              
  3018, New Restrictions on Lobbying; 7 CFR 3019, Uniform Federal Assistance        
  Regulations for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,      
  Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations, 7 CFR 3016, Uniform                
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State        
  and Local Governments.                                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Consult Appendix IV of the Catalog for addresses of regional offices of the       
  Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service.                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Agreement Services Center, Marketing and Regulatory Programs, Animal and          
  Plant Health Inspection Service, USDA Center, 4700 River Road, Unit 55,           
  Riverdale, MD 20737. Contact Anita S. Ridley. Telephone: (301) 734-8792.          
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.aphis.usda.gov.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  10.001, Agricultural Research_Basic and Applied Research; 10.028, Wildlife        
  Services; 10.202, Cooperative Forestry Research; 10.207, Animal Health and        
  Disease Research; 10.215, Sustainable Agriculture Research and Education;         
  10.219, Biotechnology Risk Assessment Research; 10.250, Agricultural and          
  Rural Economic Research; 10.500, Cooperative Extension Service; 10.652,           
  Forestry Research; 10.800, Livestock, Meat and Poultry Market Supervision;        
  10.902, Soil and Water Conservation; 12.100, Aquatic Plant Control; 15.611,       
  Wildlife Restoration.                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  The National Animal Health Monitoring System (NAHMS) is designed to               
  provide local, State, and national information on animal disease problems         
  throughout the United States. The National Plant Pest Survey and Detection        
  Program (NAPPSD) coordinates and standardizes a nationwide survey and             
  detection system for exotic and endemic plant pests of agricultural importance.   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Relevance to agency program mission and qualification of principal investigator   
  and institution.                                                                  
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
10.028 WILDLIFE SERVICES                                                            
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     


2                                                                             11-08

  ANIMAL AND PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT
  OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Animal Damage Control Act of 1931, 7 U.S.C. 426, 426b, 426c, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To reduce damage caused by mammals and birds and those mammal and bird
  species that are reservoirs for zoonotic diseases, (except for urban rodent control
  through control and research activities). Wherever feasible, humane methods
  will be emphasized.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Works closely with State departments of fish and game, agriculture, health, and
  counties in joint efforts to alleviate wild animal damage. Conduct surveys,
  campaigns to reduce wild animal damage including bird problems at airports,
  develop methods to control wild animal damage, and provide technical advice
  and assistance. For direct technical assistance, State fish and game departments
  should be contacted.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local governments, federally recognized Indian tribal governments,
  public/private nonprofit organizations, nonprofit institutions of higher
  education, and individuals.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, local jurisdictions, U.S. Territorial government agencies, federally
  recognized Indian tribal governments, public and private institutions and
  organizations, farmers, ranchers, agricultural producers, and land/property
  owners benefit from Federal assistance in the control of nuisance mammals and
  birds and those mammal and bird species that are reservoirs for zoonotic
  diseases, except for urban rodent control.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Curriculum vitae for principal investigator, except for State, local, and
  Territorial government cooperators.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A letter from applicants seeking support or cooperation with the Animal and
  Plant Health Inspection Service. Applicants must indicate the nature and
  severity of the problem to be considered, and explain how they will address the
  problem. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Comply with E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs," and
  submit a completed Standard Form 424.1, "U.S. Department of Agriculture,
  Application for Federal Assistance (Non-construction)" and project proposal
  (work plan), financial plan, curriculum vitae, and other required certifications to
  the appropriate APHIS area, regional, or headquarters office. See Regional and
  Local Office Address Listing.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are approved by the Administrator or authorized departmental
  officers (ADO's) upon determination that the project will contribute toward
  accomplishment of the Agency's overall mission and meet any established
  project evaluation/selection criteria.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Based on program needs and availability of annual funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Recipients share some project or program costs. The cost-sharing arrangements
  are developed between USDA and the recipients in advance of the program
  unless otherwise stated by Congress.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to one year from the date of award.
Reports:
  Requirements are specifically indicated in the award documents and may vary
  for given programs; however, quarterly financial reports, annual progress
  reports, final financial and final summary progress reports are generally
  required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No A-133.
