  Dairy farmers whose milk has been removed from the market by a public agency      
  because of residue of any violating substance in such milk. Manufacturers of

  dairy products whose product has been removed from the market by a public         
  agency because of pesticide residue in such product. This program is also

  available in Puerto Rico.                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Dairy farmers whose milk has been removed from the market by a public agency      
  because of residue of any violating substance in such milk. Manufacturers of      
  dairy products whose product has been removed from the market by a public         
  agency because of pesticide residue in such product. This program is available in 
  Puerto Rico.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  In the case of a dairy farmer, the notice removing the milk from the market along 
  with a record of past marketing records for milk to determine the quantity and    
  value of the milk not marketed, the violating substance involved and the uses of  
  such violating substances during the previous 24 months. In the case of the       
  manufacturer of dairy products, the notice removing the product from the market   
  and sufficient data to determine the value of the product. This program is        
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102         
  and E.O. 12372.                                                                   
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Producers must file an application for payment on Form FSA-373 with the local     
  county FSA office. Manufacturers must file information on the cause and           
  amount of their loss with the local county FSA office. This program is excluded   
  from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110.                            
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Initial approval is made by the county FSA committee. Final approval is made      
  by the Price Support Division in Washington, DC.                                  
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Claims must be filed by December 31 following the fiscal year in which the loss   
  is incurred.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  From 60 to 90 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                            
  Applicants may appeal to the county Farm Service Agency Committee and to the      
  FSA, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Appeals and Litigation Group, 1400           
  Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-0570.                              
Renewals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Payment is made by Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) check after claim           
  approval.                                                                         
Reports:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Audits:                                                                             
  Recipients are subject to audit by Office of Inspector General, USDA.             
Records:                                                                            
  The dairy farmer and the manufacturer of dairy products must keep any records     
  in applying for a payment for 3 years following the year in which an application  
  for payment was filed.                                                            
Account Identification:                                                             
  12-3314-0-1-351.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not            
  reported.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $88 to $95,000; $40,000.                                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Program regulations were published in the Federal Register, 7 CFR, 760, and       
  announced through the news media, Handbook 3-LD, Circulars and regulations        
  issued by FSA.                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Consult the local telephone directory for location of the county FSA office. If no
  listing, contact the appropriate State FSA office listed under the Farm Service   
  Agency section of Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, 1400 Independence Avenue,         
  SW., Washington, DC 20250-0512. Telephone: (202) 720-7641.                        
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  10.500, Cooperative Extension Service.                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Not applicable.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:



                                                                               11-08
  Not applicable.
10.054 EMERGENCY CONSERVATION PROGRAM
   (ECP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Agricultural Credit Act of 1978, Title IV, Public Law 95-334, 16 U.S.C. 2201-
  2205, as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To enable farmers to perform emergency conservation measures to control wind
  erosion on farmlands, to rehabilitate farmlands damaged by wind erosion,
  floods, hurricanes, or other natural disasters and to carry out emergency water
  conservation or water enhancing measures during periods of severe drought.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Following a natural disaster, the county FSA committee determines, with
  concurrence from the State FSA committee, to make the program available in
  the county. Emergency cost- sharing is limited to new conservation problems
  created by natural disasters which, if not treated will impair or endanger the
  land, materially affect the productive capacity of the land, represent damage that
  is unusual in character and, except for wind erosion, is not the type that would
  recur frequently in the same area and will be so costly to rehabilitate that Federal
  assistance is or will be required to return the land to productive agricultural use.
  Eligible drought situations for water enhancing measures must be determined by
  the Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs, FSA.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any agricultural producer who as owner, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper on a
  farm or ranch, including associated groups, and bears a part of the cost of an
  approved conservation practice in a disaster area, is eligible to apply for cost-
  share conservation assistance. This program is also available in Guam,
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin
  Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any agricultural producer who as owner, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper on a
  farm or ranch, including associated groups, and bears a part of the cost of an
  approved conservation practice in a disaster area, is eligible to apply for cost-
  share conservation assistance. This program is also available in Guam,
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the Virgin
  Islands.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Identification as an eligible person and proof of contribution to the cost of
  performing the conservation practice. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102
  and E.O.12372.
Application Procedure:
  Eligible persons may submit an application on Form AD-245, for cost-sharing,
  at the county FSA office for the county in which the affected land is located.
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and
  A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The county FSA committee reviews, prioritizes, and may approve applications in
  whole or in part. Approvals cannot exceed the county allocation of Federal
  funds for that purpose.
Deadlines:
  Applications for payment must be filed with the county FSA committee by a
  prescribed date. The conservation practice for which cost-shares have been
  approved must be completed during the program year, within the time specified
  by the county FSA committee, and such performance reported to the county
  office within a specified time.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 2 to 3 weeks.
Appeals:
  Participants may appeal to county FSA committee, State FSA committee, or
  National Appeals Division (NAD) on any determination. Matters that are
  generally applicable to all producers are not appealable.
Renewals:
  Certain approvals may be extended by the FSA county committee, when
  necessary, with proper justification.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Practice cost-share approvals are given on a fiscal year basis. The approvals
  specify the time that the practice must be carried out. Payment is by check or
  electronic funds transfer following completion of the measure.
                                                                                         5
