Reports:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Audits:                                                                                
  Recipients are subject to audit by the Office of Inspector General, USDA.            
Records:                                                                               
  Maintained in the county FSA office and Federal record centers for a specified       
  number of years.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                                
  12-3316-0-1-453.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Direct payments) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not               
  reported.                                                                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $50 to $64,000; $2,681.                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Not available.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Program regulations published in the Federal Register at 7 CFR, Part 701.            
  Program is announced through the news media in the county area designated as         
  a disaster area.                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Farmers are advised to contact their local county FSA office after a natural         
  disaster has occurred to determine whether the program is available in the           
  county and to determine eligibility for emergency cost-share assistance. Consult     
  the local telephone directory for location of the county FSA office. If no listing,  
  get in touch with the appropriate State FSA office listed in the Farm Service        
  Agency section of Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  USDA/FSA/CEPD, Stop 0513, 1400 Independence Ave., SW., Washington, DC

                                                                                       
  20250-0513. Telephone: (202) 720-6221.

                                                                                       
Web Site Address:

                                                                                       
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov .

                                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  10.404, Emergency Loans.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  Not applicable.

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
10.055 DIRECT AND COUNTER-CYCLICAL PAYMENTS                                            
PROGRAM                                                                                
                                                                                       
    (DCP)

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                       
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                       
  The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (2002 Farm Bill).

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:

  To provide income support to eligible producers of covered commodities.              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  With respect to Fiscal Year 2002 payments, CCC will offer to enter into a            
  contract with eligible producers of covered commodities on October 1, 2002           
  through the date announced by CCC. With respect to Fiscal Years 2003 through         
  2007, CCC shall offer to annually enter into a contract with an eligible producer    
  on a farm having base acreage with respect to a covered commodity at the             
  beginning of each such fiscal year 2003 through 2007 through the date                
  announced by CCC for each such year.                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  To be eligible for payments under DCP, owners, operators, landlords, tenants, or     
  sharecroppers must (1) share in the risk of producing a crop on base acres on a      
  farm enrolled in DCP, and be entitled to share in the crop available for             
  marketing from the base acres, or would have shared had a crop been produced;        
  (2) annually report the use of the farm's cropland acreage; (3) comply with          
  conservation and wetland protection requirements on all of their land; (4)           
  comply with planting flexibility requirements; (5) use the base acres for            
  agricultural or related activities; and (5) protect all base acres from erosion,     
  including providing sufficient cover as determined necessary by the county FSA       
                                                                                       
  committee, and control weeds.

                                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  DCP provides payments to eligible producers on farms enrolled for the 2002

                                                                                       
  through 2007 crop years.

                                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                       
  As a condition of eligibility for direct and counter-cyclical payments, the

                                                                                       
  operator or owner must submit a report of all cropland acreage on the farm.

                                                                                       
  Reports of production evidence for all covered commodities shall be provided to

                                                                                       
  the county committee of the county where the farm is administratively located,       
  by farm and crop in such manner as required by CCC on a CCC-approved                 
  standard, uniform form designated by CCC. When disposition of production has

6                                                                                11-08

  been through commercial channels, CCC may require the producer to furnish
  documentary evidence in order to verify the information provided on the report
  of production.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102
  and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The CCC-509 must be submitted. The following documents are required and
  applicable determinations must be made before the county committee can
  approve a producer's share on the CCC-509 for payment: (1) a farm operating
  plan (CCC-502 and related forms); (2) an average adjusted gross income
  certification (CCC-526); (3) a certification of compliance with highly erodible
  land and wetland conservation provisions (AD-1026). A certification of the
  acreage of all cropland on the farm (FSA-578) is needed before final payments
  can be issued.
Award Procedure:
  Producers may elect to receive their direct payments in two installments per
  year: (1) the first payment, available in December of the fiscal year, is up to 50
  percent of the total payment; (2) the balance of the total direct payment is
  available in October of the fiscal year after the fiscal year the payment is earned.
  Producers who do not elect to take the first direct payment will receive the entire
  direct payment at this time. Producers may elect to receive up to three counter-
  cyclical payments per year: (1) first partial payments are available in October of
  the calendar year in which the crop is harvested. These payments cannot exceed
  35 percent of the total projected payment; (2) second partial payments, up to 70
  percent of the projected payment, minus the amount of the first partial payment,
  are available the following February (the year after the crop is harvested); (3)
  final payments are made after the end of the marketing year for the crop.
  Producers who do not elect to take the first and second advance payments will
  receive the entire counter-cyclical payment at this time.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section
  below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval of payments depends on farmer compliance with conservation and
  wetland protection requirements on all of the producers' farms, planting
  flexibility requirements and other eligibility requirements mentioned above, and
  is fairly routine and prompt.
Appeals:
  A producer may obtain reconsideration and review of any adverse determination
  made under this part in accordance with the appeal regulations found at parts 11
  and 780 of Title 7 Agriculture.
Renewals:
  Farm producers must apply for DCP on an annual basis and can opt out of
  participating in DCP for any year if they so choose.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  For each covered commodity, the direct payment for each crop year equals 85
  percent of the farm's base acreage times the farm's direct payment yield times the
  direct payment rate. For each covered commodity, the counter-cyclical payment
  for each crop year equals 85 percent of the farm's base acreage times the farm's
  counter-cyclical payment yield times the counter-cyclical payment rate.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The DCP payment schedule for 2002 and 2003 crop years is in the hyperlink
  provided below. The payment schedule for the 2004-2007 crop years parallels
  the schedule for the 2003 crop year.
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/pas/publications/facts/html/dcp03.htm.
Reports:
  A certification of the acreage of all cropland on the farm (FSA-578) is needed
  before final payments can be issued.
Audits:
  Recipients under this program are subject to audit by the Office of the Regional
  Inspector General, USDA.
Records:
  An owner or any other individual or entity receiving assistance for DCP shall
  maintain and retain financial books and records which will permit verification of
  all transactions for at least 3 years, following the end of the calendar year in
  which assistance was provided.
Account Identification:
  12-4336-0-3-351.
Obligations:
  Direct Payments: FY 07 $4,357,871,511.55; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09
  est not reported. Counter-Cyclical Payments: FY 07 $3,765,561,623; FY 08 est
  not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program is announced through news media and in letters to agricultural
  producers in the counties. Regulations published in the Federal Register, 7 CFR
