  Part 1412.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Consult the local phone directory for location of the nearest county FSA office.   
  If no listing, contact the appropriate State FSA office listed in the Farm Service 
  Agency section of Appendix IV of the Catalog or on the WEB at                      
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/edso/.                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  U.S. Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, Production Emergencies        
  and Compliance Division, Compliance Branch, 1400 Independence Ave. SW.,            
  Washington DC 20250-0514. Telephone: (202) 720-9882.                               
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov .                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  All producers meeting eligibility requirements may receive assistance.             
  Applications are non-competitive.                                                  
                                                                                     
10.056 FARM STORAGE FACILITY LOANS                                                   
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  15 U.S.C. 714, et seq.                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To encourage the construction of on farm grain storage capacity and to help        
  farmers adapt to identity preserved storage and handling requirements for          
  genetically enhanced production.                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Loans.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Loans are used to finance the purchase and construction of new storage             
  structures, handling equipment and drying equipment, and to finance the            
  remodeling of existing storage structures. The loan amount is limited to           
  $100,000 times the number of borrowers liable for each loan.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  An eligible borrower is any person who, as landowner, landlord, operator,          
  producer, tenant, leaseholder, or sharecropper: (1) Has a satisfactory credit      
  history and demonstrates an ability to repay the debt arising under this program   
  using a financial statement acceptable to CCC prepared within 90 days of the       
  date of application; (2) has no delinquent Federal debt defined by the Debt        
  Collection Improvement Act of 1996 at the time of loan disbursement; (3) is a      
  producer of a facility loan commodity as defined by CCC; (4) demonstrates a        
  need for increased storage capacity as defined by CCC if the applicant is          
  applying for a loan for a storage structure; (5) provides proof of crop insurance  
  offered under the Federal Crop Insurance Program for crops of economic             
  significance on all farms operated by the borrower in the county where the         
  storage facility is located; (6) is in compliance with USDA provisions for highly  
  erodible land and wetlands provisions according to 7 CFR Part 12; (7)              
  demonstrates compliance with any applicable local zoning, land use, and            
  building codes for the applicable farm storage facility structures; (8) provides   
  proof of flood insurance if CCC determines such insurance is necessary to          
  protect the interests of CCC, and proof of all peril structural insurance, to CCC  
  annually; (9) demonstrates compliance with the National Environmental Policy       
  Act regulations at 40 CFR, Parts 1500- 1508; and (10) has not been convicted

  under Federal or State law of a controlled substance violation under 7 CFR Part    
  718.

                                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Applicants/borrowers are the direct beneficiaries when they meet all eligibility

  criteria. Landowners, landlords, operators, producers, tenants, leaseholders, or   
                                                                                     
  sharecroppers are the beneficiaries.

                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                     
  Applicants must establish that they have a need for additional storage capacity.

                                                                                     
  The applicant must establish that he has the ability to repay the loan. This

                                                                                     
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                     
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102

                                                                                     
  and E.O. 12372.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Application Form CCC-185 provided by the Farm Service Agency must be

                                                                                     
  presented, with supporting information, to the FSA county office serving the

                                                                                     
  applicant's county. FSA personnel assist applicants in completing their

                                                                                     
  application forms. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular

                                                                                     
  No. A-110.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

                                                                                     
  FSA State and County Committees are authorized to approve these loans after

                                                                                     
  applicants are determined eligible.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  Applications must be filed at least 15 calendar days in advance of the day when
  the FSA County Committee meets. Loan approvals by the FSA County
  Committee expire 4 months after the approval date unless extended for up to
  another 4 months.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The approval process may take from 2 to 6 weeks.
Appeals:
  Applicants for loans may appeal adverse actions taken against them. The
  applicant is given an opportunity to appeal the decision to the National Appeals
  Division.
Renewals:
  The loan term is 7 years. The term of the loan may not be extended. The loan is
  repaid in equal annual installments of principal and interest amortized over the
  loan term.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The amount of the loan is determined after construction takes place. A 15
  percent down payment is required. The loan is disbursed by check as soon as
  the cost is determined, all loan documents have been prepared and all security
  documents have been filed.
Reports:
  Borrowers are required to maintain the collateral in good condition and to keep
  property taxes and insurance current.
Audits:
  Collateral is inspected by CCC annually.
Records:
  Borrowers are required to annually submit proof of crop insurance, flood
  insurance (if applicable), hazard insurance, and property taxes.
Account Identification:
  12-4158-0-3-351; 12-3301-0-1-351.
Obligations:
  (Direct Loans) FY 07 est $1,238,327; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $1000 to $100,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  (1) A fact sheet, press release, forms, and directives are available. Regulations at
  7 CFR Part 1436 were first published in the Federal Register under an interim
  rule on May 11, 2000. After comments were evaluated, regulations at 7CFR
  Part 1436 were revised with the publication of a final rule on January 18, 2001.
Regional or Local Office:
  Consult the appropriate FSA State office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Farm Service Agency, Director, Price Support Division, 14th and Independence
  Ave., SW., Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-7935.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/dafp/psd/FSFL.html .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
10.066 LIVESTOCK ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
   (LAP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related
  Agencies Appropriations Act of 2001, Public Law 106-387.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide direct payments to eligible livestock producers who suffered grazing
  losses due to drought, hot weather, disease, insect infestation, fire, hurricane,
  flood, fire, earthquake, severe storm, or other disasters during the 2000 crop
  year. Benefits will be provided to eligible livestock producers only in those
  counties where a severe natural disaster occurred. A county must have been
  approved as a primary disaster area under a Secretarial disaster designation or
  Presidential disaster declaration after January 1, 2000, and subsequently
  approved for participation in the Livestock Assistance Program (LAP) by the
  Deputy Administrator for Farm Programs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  LAP provides direct payments to eligible livestock producers who suffered 40
  percent or greater grazing loss for three or more months due to a natural disaster.
                                                                                         7
