   There are no use restrictions on the benefits received under this program.           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  An applicant must meet all of the following conditions as determined by the           
  approving official: (1) May not have total annual gross revenue in excess of $2.5     
  million; (2) must have grazing land in a county or parish or part of a county or      
  parish approved for LAP; and (3) suffered a 40 percent or greater grazing loss        
  for 3 consecutive months during the LAP payment period approved for the               
  county. An applicant must also be an established livestock producer who is: (1)       
  Actively engaged in farming; (2) a citizen of, or legal resident alien in the United  
  States; (3) a farm cooperative, private domestic corporation, partnership, or joint   
  operation in which a majority interest is held by the members, stockholders, or       
  partners who are citizens of, or legal resident alien of the United States; (4) any   
  Indian tribe or tribal organization of the Indian Self-Determination and              
  Education Assistance Act; (5) any organization under the Indian Reorganization        
  Act or Financing Act; and (6) any economic enterprise under the Indian                
  Financing Act of 1974.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  An applicant must meet all of the following conditions as determined by the           
  approving official: (1) May not have total annual gross revenue in excess of $2.5     
  million; (2) payment limitation for 2000 LAP benefits is $40,000 per person as        
  determined according to 7 CFR Part 1439, and 1-PL, Part 4; (3) be actively            
  engaged in farming with at least 10 percent of gross revenue derived from             
  production of livestock; (4) must have grazing land in a county or parish or part     
  of a county or parish approved for LAP; and (5) suffered a 40 percent or greater      
  grazing loss for 3 consecutive months during the LAP payment period approved          
  for the county. An applicant must also be an established livestock producer who       
  is: (1) Actively engaged in farming; (2) a citizen of, or legal resident alien in the 
  United States; (3) a farm cooperative, private domestic corporation, partnership,     
  or joint operation in which a majority interest is held by the members,               
  stockholders, or partners who are citizens of, or legal resident alien of the United  
  States; (4) any Indian tribe or tribal organization of the Indian Self-               
  Determination and Education Assistance Act; (5) any organization under the            
  Indian Reorganization Act or Financing Act; and (6) any economic enterprise           
  under the Indian Financing Act of 1974.                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Applicants must certify: (1) Percent of grazing losses for each type of grazing,      
  number of eligible livestock and date of ownership during the payment period by       
  livestock type and weight class, and number of grazing acthat support eligible        
                                                                                        
  livestock; (2) that annual gross revenue is not in excess of $2.5 million; and (3)

                                                                                        
  derives at least 10 percent of gross revenue from the production of livestock.

Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                        
Application Procedure:

                                                                                        
  Applicants visit the county or parish Farm Service Agency (FSA) office in the

  eligible county or parish to make application, certify eligibility and report

                                                                                        
  percent of grazing loss, number of grazing acres, and number of eligible

                                                                                        
  livestock by type and weight on Form CCC-740.

                                                                                        
Award Procedure:

                                                                                        
  LAP 1999 all application data was uploaded by computer to the FSA national

                                                                                        
  data processing center in Kansas City, MO on February 25, 2000. Totals were

                                                                                        
  tabulated to determine if authorized funding would be exceeded. Based upon

                                                                                        
  the number of applicants and total dollar value of applications, a national

                                                                                        
  payment factor of .46 was established. This factor is being applied to all

                                                                                        
  calculated payments before issuance to the producer. The 2000 LAP factor will

                                                                                        
  be determined at a later date.

                                                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section         
  below.                                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Unknown at this time.                                                                 
Appeals:

                                                                                        
  Applicants may appeal to the county and State FSA committees and to the

                                                                                        
  National Appeals Division. Producers' grazing losses in excess of the maximum

                                                                                        
  grazing loss for the county are not appealable.

                                                                                        
Renewals:

                                                                                        
  Not applicable.

                                                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Formula and matching requirements are not considered under this program.              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Payment is made by check or direct deposit after determining applicant                
  eligibility.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                                
  There are no reports due for post assistance requirements under this program.         
Audits:                                                                                 
  Recipients under these programs are subject to audit by the Office of the             
  Regional Inspector General, USDA.                                                     
Records:                                                                                
  Livestock producers or any other individual or entity receiving assistance for        
  LAP shall maintain and retain financial books and records which will permit           
  verification of all transactions for at least 3 years, following the end of the       


8                                                                                 11-08

  calendar year in which assistance was provided.
Account Identification:
  12-4336-0-3-351.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $326,774,990; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est
  not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  There is no minimum amount of assistance which may be received by an
  individual applicant. The national "person" limit (before national factoring) is
  $40,000. In 2001: $10 to $40,000; $875. For the 2002 LAP unknown at this
  time.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program is announced through news media and in letters to agricultural
  producers in the county. Regulations published in the Federal Register, 7 CFR
  Part 1439. Agency procedures are listed in Handbook 1-DAP. LAP Fact Sheet
  may be located on line at
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/pas/publications/facts/pubfacts.htm.
Regional or Local Office:
  Consult the local phone directory for location of the nearest county FSA office.
  If no listing, contact the appropriate State FSA office listed in the Farm Service
  Agency section of Appendix IV of the Catalog or on the WEB at
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/edso/.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, Production, Emergencies, and
  Compliance Division, Emergency Preparedness and Program Branch, Stop
  0517, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250-0517.
  Telephone: (202) 720-7641.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.054, Emergency Conservation Program; 10.404, Emergency Loans; 10.450,
  Crop Insurance; 10.451, Noninsured Assistance; 10.452, Disaster Reserve
  Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All producers meeting eligibility requirements may receive assistance subject to
  the national payment factor. Applications are non-competitive.
10.069 CONSERVATION RESERVE PROGRAM
   (CRP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Food Security Act of 1985, Title XII, Public Law 99-198, as amended; Food,
  Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, Public Law 101-624; Federal
  Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, Public Law 104-127.
OBJECTIVES:
  To protect the Nation's long-term capability to produce food and fiber; to reduce
  soil erosion and sedimentation, improve water quality, and create a better habitat
  for wildlife.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Eligible owners or operators may place highly erodible or other environmentally
  sensitive land into a 10-15 year contract. The participant, in return for annual
  payments, agrees to implement a conservation plan approved by the local
  conservation district for converting highly erodible cropland or other
  environmentally sensitive land to a long-term resource conserving cover i.e.,
  eligible land must be planted with a vegetative cover, such as, perennial grasses,
  legumes, fobs, shrubs, or trees. The participant agrees to reduce the aggregate
  total of allotments and quotas by an amount based on the ratio of the total
  cropland acreage on each farm, to the total acreage on each farm subject to the
  CRP contract. Financial and technical assistance are available to participants to
  assist in the establishment of a long- term resource conserving cover.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An individual, partnership, association, Indian Tribal ventures corporation,
  estate, trust, other business enterprises or other legal entities and, whenever
  applicable, a State, a political subdivision of a State, or any agency thereof may
  submit an offer to enroll acreage.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  If their offer is accepted for enrollment, an individual, partnership, association,
  Indian Tribal ventures, corporation, estate, trust, other business enterprises or
  other legal entities and, whenever applicable, a State, political subdivision of
  State, or any agency thereof may earn benefits.
Credentials/Documentation:
