  The land must be owned or operated for not less than 12 months prior to the         
  close of the signup period, unless the land was acquired by will or succession or   
  FSA determines that ownership was not acquired for the purpose of placing the       
  land in the CRP. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular          
  No. A-87.                                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  An environmental impact assessment has been prepared for this program. This         
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and E.O.             
  12372.                                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                
  FSA has three methods for enrolling acreage in the CRP. One method is a             
  continuous signup process where acreage suitable for certain environmental          
  priority practices, including but not limited to grass waterways, riparian buffers  
  or filterstrips, and acreage within wellhead protection areas may be offered and    
  accepted without going through a competitive offer process. The second method       
  is similar to continuous signup and is available only in distinct geographic areas.

  These areas are targeted by FSA and State governments under partnership             
  agreements. The third method is to offer acreage during a general signup period

  where eligible offers to enroll highly erodible and other environmentally

                                                                                      
  sensitive acreage are submitted and ranked competitively based on an                
  environmental benefits index. Regardless of the method of enrollment, the local

  FSA office that serves the area in which the farm or ranch is located will provide  
  the maximum payment rate CCC will accept to enroll certain acreage in the           
  program. Producers may submit a rental rate per acre offered that may be equal      
  to or less than CCC's maximum payment rate. This program is excluded from           
  coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110.                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  FSA will notify persons whose offers are determined acceptable as soon as           
  practicable after the close of the signup.                                          
Deadlines:                                                                            
  The offer must be filed at the county FSA office by the end of the announced        
  signup period.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 7 to 120 days.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  Producers may appeal any determination to county FSA committee, State               
  committee, or National Appeals Division. Matters that are generally applicable      
  to all producers are not appealable.                                                
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Annual rental payments in cash or generic commodity certificates will be made       
  for 10-15 years. If cost-share assistance to establish the appropriate cover was    
  requested, a payment will be made after the practice is successfully established    
  according to applicable guidelines. FSA may provide certain incentives for          
  restoring wetlands or other lands.                                                  
Reports:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  Recipients are subject to audit by the Office of Inspector General, USDA.           
Records:                                                                              
  Maintained in county FSA office and Federal Record centers for a specified          
  number of years.                                                                    
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-3319-0-1-302; 12-4336-0-1-302.                                                   
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Direct Payments) Financial Assistance: FY 07 $1,969,880,000; FY 08 est not

                                                                                      
  available; and FY 09 est not reported.                                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $50 to $50,000; $4,000.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  Currently, approximately 33.5 million acres are enrolled in the CRP. Each

                                                                                      
  contract covers an average of 74 acres with an average rental rate of $45.95 per

                                                                                      
  acre. This is based on the latest actual data.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                      
  Program is announced through news media and in letters to agricultural

                                                                                      
  producers in the county. Regulations published in the Federal Register, 7 CFR

                                                                                      
  part 1410.

                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                      
  Consult the local telephone directory for location of the county FSA office,

                                                                                      
  under U.S. Government, U.S. Department of Agriculture. If no listing, contact

                                                                                      
  the appropriate State FSA office listed in the FSA section of Appendix IV of the

                                                                                      
  Catalog.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                      
  USDA/FSA/CEPD, Stop 0513, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington,

                                                                                      
  DC 20250-0513. Telephone: (202) 720-6221.                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov.                                                            


                                                                                11-08 
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.054, Emergency Conservation Program; 10.064, Forestry Incentives Program;
  10.072, Wetlands Reserve Program; 10.901, Resource Conservation and
  Development; 10.902, Soil and Water Conservation; 10.904, Watershed
  Protection and Flood Prevention.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  County FSA offices will provide producers the maximum acceptable rental rate
  for the acreage offered. All offers submitted under a general signup will be
  screened at both the local and national level to determine the suitability of the
  acreage and acceptability of the rental rate offered. In addition, offers will be
  evaluated in terms of cost for the environmental benefits obtained. Acres
  accepted will be limited to the Secretary's authority to maintain 36.4 million
  acres or less as determined by the Secretary.
10.070 COLORADO RIVER BASIN SALINITY CONTROL
PROGRAM
   (CRBSCP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Colorado River Basin Salinity Control Act of 1974, as amended, Section 202c of
  Title II, 43 U.S.C. 1592c; Section 201, Public Law 93-320, 88 Stat. 271; Section
  2, Public Law 98-569, 98 Stat. 2933, 43 U.S.C. 1592(c).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial and technical assistance to: (1) Identify salt source areas;
  (2) develop project plans to carry out conservation practices to reduce salt loads;
  (3) install conservation practices to reduce salinity levels; (4) carry out research,
  education, and demonstration activities; (5) carry out monitoring and evaluation
  activities; and (6) to decrease salt concentration and salt loading which causes
  increased salinity levels within in the Colorado River and to enhance the supply
  and quality of water available for use in the United States and the Republic of
  Mexico.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Eligible owners or operators in approved project areas may receive cost-share
  assistance to treat salinity problems caused by agricultural irrigation activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A participant may be any of the following: an owner, landlord, operator, or
  tenant of eligible lands: Individual, Indian tribe, partnership, firm, association,
  corporation, joint stock company, conservation district, estate, trust, irrigation
  district or company, and State or local public or nonpublic entity not described
  above.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any person in the Colorado River basin will benefit who uses or reuses water for
  irrigation, domestic, municipal or industrial water supply or for fish and wildlife
  habitat.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Any eligible landowner or operator who controls land in an identified salt source
  area is eligible to apply for cost-share assistance. This program is currently
  available in Mesa, Delta, Montezuma, and Montrose counties, Colorado;
  Duchesne and Uintah counties, Utah; Sweetwater county, Wyoming. This
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Eligible persons may make application on Form SCS-LTP-001. CRSC contracts
  may be requested during sign-up periods throughout the year at the local NRCS
  office in the county where the land is located. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The designated project Contracting officer may approve applications within the
  project allocation of Federal funds for cost-share assistance.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  None.
Appeals:
  Participants may appeal any determination to the National Appeals Division,
  Washington, DC.
                                                                                          9
