Renewals:                                                                               
  Certain practice approvals may be extended by the contracting Offices.                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Cost-share assistance levels may be funded up to 70 percent of total cost.            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Long-term contracts of 3 to 10 years. Cost-share assistance is paid when the          
  practice is performed.                                                                
Reports:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Audits:                                                                                 
  Subject to audit by Office of the Inspector General, USDA.                            
Records:                                                                                
  Records are maintained in the NRCS office and Federal record centers for a            
  specified number of years.                                                            
Account Identification:                                                                 
  12-3318-0-1-304.                                                                      
Obligations:

                                                                                        
  (Direct payments) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est not reported. (Salaries

                                                                                        
  and Expenses) FY 07 est $10,000; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                        
  The range has not been identified. Average: $20,000.

                                                                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  This program is operated in 6 project areas in 3 States (Colorado, Utah and           
                                                                                        
  Wyoming).

                                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Guidelines are announced through the news media and in letters to agricultural        
  producers in the county.                                                              
                                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:

  Consult the local telephone directory for location of the local NRCS field office.    
  If there is no listing, get in touch with the appropriate State NRCS office listed    
  in the NRCS section of Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Financial Assistance Programs Division, Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box           
  2890, Washington, DC 20013. Dave Mason ,Telephone: (202) 720-1873. Use                
  the same number for FTS.                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.nrsc.usda.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  10.072, Wetlands Reserve Program; 10.064, Forestry Incentives Program;                
  10.902, Soil and Water Conservation; 10.904, Watershed Protection and Flood           
  Prevention; 10.900, Great Plains Conservation; 10.912, Environmental Quality          
  Incentives Program.                                                                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  For the past several fiscal years, salinity control activities were funded under the  
  Environmental Quality Incentives Program (EQIP).                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  The type and severity of salinity problems; the need to correlate on the farm         
  conservation treatment with canal and lateral improvement; estimated cost;            
  extent of the salinity problem; proximity to water bodies; land use charges;          
  offsite effects; onsite environmental effects; other resource problems; seasonal      
  nature of salinity reduction practices to be installed; applicants' ability to        
  complete practices in the shortest time practical; and positive or negative effects   
  on wildlife.                                                                          
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
10.072 WETLANDS RESERVE PROGRAM                                                         
     (WRP)                                                                              
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                 
  AGRICULTURE                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Food Security Act of 1985, Title XII, Public Law 99-198, as amended; Food,            
  Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, Title XIV, Section 1237,            
  Public Law 101-624, 104 Stat. 3584, 7 U.S.C. 3837, as amended; Omnibus                
  Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993; Federal Agriculture Improvement and                
  Reform Act of 1996; Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug                     
  Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1998 and                   
  Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related             
  Agencies Appropriations Act of 2001 and as amended, Farm Security and Rural           
  Investment Act of 2002.                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To assist landowners in restoring and protecting wetlands on eligible lands on        
  which they agree to enter into a permanent or long-term easement, or a                
  restoration cost-share agreement with the Secretary. The goal of WRP is to            
  maximize wetland functions and values and wildlife benefits on every acre             
  enrolled in the program. Total acreage enrollment limitation is 2,275,000 acres.      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Eligible landowners may offer farmed wetlands, prior converted wetlands,              


10                                                                                11-08

  wetlands farmed under natural condition, former or degraded wetlands on lands
  that have been used or are currently being used for the production of food and
  fiber, including rangeland and forest production land, lands substantially altered
  by flooding, certain riparian areas, along with certain adjacent areas, to be
  placed under a permanent or 30-year easement, or restoration cost-share
  agreement. A deed restriction covering the land approved under easement must
  be recorded in the local land deeds office. Subject to the acceptance of an offer
  by the Federal Government, the landowner will receive in cash an amount
  specified in the WRP contract as determined by a method prescribed by the
  Secretary. The landowner shall ensure that the easement granted to Natural
  Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) is superior to the rights of all others
  and shall agree to implement a wetland restoration plan designed to restore and
  maintain the easement area. The plan will include a designated access route to
  be used as necessary for easement management and monitoring. The landowner
  will receive financial and technical assistance to install necessary restoration
  practices on the land under easement or the practice will be installed by the
  Secretary. The landowner shall agree to a permanent retirement of crop acreage
  bases, allotments, and quotas to the extent that the sum of the crop acreage bases
  and allotments will not exceed the remaining cropland of the present farm or
  subsequently reconstituted farm. In cases involving restoration participants
  receive restoration cost-share and technical assistance and no easement payment.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An individual landowner, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust,
  other business or other legal entities and, whenever applicable, a State, a
  political subdivision of a State, or any agency thereof owning eligible lands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  An individual landowner, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust,
  other business enterprises or other legal entities and, whenever applicable, a
  State, a political subdivision of a State, or any agency thereof owning private
  croplands will benefit.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The landowner must have owned the land offered for at least the preceding 12
  months prior to the end of the period in which the intent to participate in an
  easement is declared unless the land was acquired by will or succession as a
  result of the death of the previous owner; or the Department determines that the
  new owner did not acquire such land for the purpose of placing it in the WRP.
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A- 87. The
  12 month requirement is not applicable to restoration agreement.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An environmental impact assessment has been prepared for this program. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submit an application to enroll to the local NRCS office that serves the area in
  which the farm or ranch is located during the designated sign-up period. This
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The States will provide a list of potential acceptable offers and request for
  allocation of funds. The Department will allocate funding in a manner designed
  to achieve cost effectiveness and maximum wetland restoration based wildlife
  benefits. The States will notify the landowners of the status of their applicaiton.
  This process will be completed as soon as practical after funding becomes
  available. For all tentatively accepted applications, a determination of easement
  compensation value will be made according to the current procedures as
  prescribed by the Secretary.
Deadlines:
  None. The program operates under a continuous sign-up process. The
  application to participate must be filed at the local NRCS office.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 180 days after the application is filed with the NRCS. Landowner
  application may remain on sign-up list for subsequent funding consideration.
Appeals:
  Landowner may appeal certain determinations to the National Appeals Division.
Renewals:
  The land offered may be re-offered in a future sign-up unless land or landowner
  is ineligible.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Lump sum payments or no less than 5 nor more than 30 annual payments of
  equal or unequal value are made for easements. Cost-share payments of 100
  percent of the cost of implementing the Wetland Restoration Plan will be paid
  for a permanent easement with 75 percent of permanent easement amounts being
  paid for 30-year easements and restoration cost-share agreements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cash easement payments will be made in a lump sum amount, or in annual
  installments beginning at closing. Cost share payments for implementation of
  easement practices will be made when a specific practice has been implemented
  by either the landowner or contractor.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  Recipients are subject to audit by the Office of Inspector General, USDA.
