Records:                                                                               
  Records will be maintained in the county NRCS office, State NRCS office and          
  Federal Record Centers for the length of the agreement. The easement (deed           
  restriction) and applicable documents will be filed in the local land records        
  office for the duration of the easement. Agreements are filed with the Agency.       
Account Identification:                                                                
  12-1080-0-1-302; 12-4336-0-1-302.                                                    
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Direct payments) FY 07 $211,006,348; FY 08 est $455,000,000; and FY 09              
  est not reported. (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $28,339,000; FY 08 est               
  $45,500,000; and FY 09 est not reported.                                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  None.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  The program is announced through news media and in letters to agricultural           
  landowners in the county. Regulations published in the Federal Register and 7        
  CFR XIV.                                                                             
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Consult the local telephone directory for location of the NRCS office. If no         
  listing, contact the appropriate State NRCS office listed in the NRCS Section of     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Easement Programs Division, Natural Resources Conservation Service,                  
  Department of Agriculture, 14th and Independence Avenue SW, Room 6812-S,             
  Washington, DC 20013. Tony Puga, National WRP Manager, Telephone: (202)              
  720-1067. Use the same number for FTS.                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.nrsc.usda.gov.                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  10.069, Conservation Reserve Program; 10.904, Watershed Protection and Flood

                                                                                       
  Prevention.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                       
  All offers are screened at both the local and State level to determine the

                                                                                       
  acceptability of the application to ensure that offers will not be accepted in

                                                                                       
  excess of the value as determined by the method prescribed by the Secretary.

                                                                                       
  Offers will be evaluated based on the environmental benefits and government

                                                                                       
  expenditures on restoration and easement purchase and the requirement that

                                                                                       
  wildlife benefits be maximized.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
10.073 CROP DISASTER PROGRAM                                                           
   (CDP)                                                                               
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                       
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  The Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and                
  Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2001, Public Law 106-387.                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The Acts authorizes the Secretary to provide disaster assistance to producers        
  who suffered crop losses in the 2000 crop year because of adverse weather            
  conditions. Disaster payment provisions apply if the crop could not be planted       
  or production, both in quantity and quality, was adversely affected by: (1)          
  Damaging weather, including drought, excessive moisture, hail, earthquake,           
  freeze, tornado, hurricane, typhoon, volcano, excessive wind, excessive heat, or     
  a combination thereof; or (2) related conditions of insect infestation such as       
                                                                                       
  grasshoppers and Mormon crickets, plant disease such as Pierce's disease and

                                                                                       
  watermelon sudden wilt disease, or other deterioration of the crop, including

                                                                                       
  aflatoxin, that is accelerated or exacerbated naturally because of damaging

                                                                                       
  weather occurring before or during harvest.

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                       
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                       
  Assistance under the Crop Disaster Program will be available for: (1) 2000 crop

                                                                                       
  losses on prevented planted acreage, reduced production of planted acreage, or

                                                                                       
  reduced quality on certain crops; (2) value loss crops, including nursery and

                                                                                       
  aquaculture. Direct financial compensation will be paid to producers with

                                                                                       
  eligible crop losses greater than 35 percent compared to the historical average

                                                                                       
  county yield or the producers actual production history (APH), whichever is

                                                                                       
  greater. Persons with a gross revenue in excess of $2.5 million for the 1999 tax

                                                                                       
  year are not eligible for benefits under the 2000 CDP. The payment limitation

                                                                                       
  for 2000 CDP benefits is $80,000 per person. There are no use restrictions on

                                                                                       
  the benefits received under this program.

                                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  Any producer that had a financial risk and received or would have received a

                                                                                       
  share of the 2000 crop will be eligible for benefits, if all other requirements have

                                                                                       


                                                                                 11-08 
  been met. Eligible crops for the disaster program include: (1) NAP crops
  defined in FSA Handbook 1-NAP; (2) crops for which Federal crop insurance is
  available, regardless of whether insurance was purchased. The producer must be
  able to show, with verifiable evidence, that the producer had an interest in the
  commodity produced or had control of the crop acreage on which this
  commodity was grown at the time of the disaster, which is the basis for the
  application for payment. One of the following shall be obtained as determined
  by the FSA County Committee: (1) Copies of signed written lease; (2) copies of
  signed rental agreements; (3) copies of other legal documents showing land
  ownership or control; (4) statement signed by the landowner that the producer
  had control of the acreage; (5) statement signed by the operator or producer that
  the producer had control of the acreage on the farm. Highly Erodible Land and
  Wetland Restrictions apply to CDP benefits. If, subsequent to the disaster, an
  eligible producer is now deceased or is a dissolved entity, a representative of the
  deceased producer or dissolved entity may sign the CCC-557 application, if the
  representative currently has authority to enter into a contract for the producer.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any producer that had a financial risk and received or would have received a
  share of the 2000 crop will be eligible for benefits, if all other requirements have
  been met.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Producers shall provide production records for uninsured, noninsurable, and
  insured crops not meeting the loss threshold. Acceptable documentation
  includes verifiable and reliable records. Verifiable records are production
  records for an eligible crop must be submitted by the producer to support an
  application, or as required, to support a certification of production. Verifiable
  records of production include contemporaneous records provided by the
  producer that: (1) May be verified by FSA through an independent source; (2)
  are used to substantiate the amount of production reported; (3) verifiable records
  must be dated, show disposition of the crop's production, including quantity, and
  be crop specific for crops that are produced more than once in a calendar year. If
  verifiable records are not available, the producer shall provide reliable records
  documentation similar to copies of receipts, ledgers or income, income
  statements of deposit slips, register tapes, invoices for custom harvesting, and
  records to verify production input costs.
Preapplication Coordination:
  To prepare for the application procedure, the producer must provide evidence of
  the existence of the crop, certify to the disaster condition, and provide
  production totals to FSA. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  The application sign up period runs from January 18, 2001 through May 4, 2001
  or such other date as may be announced. The following forms are required to
  apply for benefits under the Crop Disaster Program: CCC-557 - 2000 Crop
  Disaster Program Application; CCC-562 - Gross Revenue Certification
  Statement; CCC-561 - Contract to purchase Crop Insurance; AD-1026 - Highly
  Erodible Land Conservation (HELC) and Wetland Conservation (WC)
  Certification (if one is not already on file); CCC-502 - Farm Operating Plan for
  Payment Eligibility Review (if one is not already on file); FSA-578D - Acreage
  Report (if one is not already on file for non-insured crops).
Award Procedure:
  The CDP provides a one-time payment for 2000 crop disasters.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section
  below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  FSA County Offices were authorized to make payments under this program upon
  publication of the regulations in the Federal Register.
Appeals:
  All producers receiving adverse decisions regarding their application under the
  disaster program are afforded appeal rights at several levels culminating at the
  National Appeals Division, which is a separate entity apart from the Farm
  Service Agency.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Eligible producers must have suffered 2000 crop losses in excess of 35%. Crop
  losses above 35% will be eligible for assistance at 65% of the county crop table
  price for insured crops or crops in which Federal crop insurance is not available
  and 60% of the county crop table price for insurable crops in which the producer
  did not purchase Federal crop insurance. As a condition of receiving benefits
  under CDP, any producer who elected to not purchase crop insurance on a crop
  in 2000 for which CDP benefits are requested must purchase crop insurance on
  that crop for the 2001 and 2002 crop years.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Program payments are made after the application is filed and approved by the
  COC.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
                                                                                         11
