OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  The goals of the Bioenergy Program are to encourage increased purchases of        
  eligible commodities for the purpose of expanding production of such bioenergy    
  and support new production capacity for such bioenergy.                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Bioenergy producers may increase their purchases of eligible commodities as       
  compared to the previous fiscal year purchases and convert that commodity into    
  increased commercial fuel grade ethanol and biodiesel production as compared      
  to previous fiscal year ethanol and biodiesel production. The Program defines     
  eligible commodities as barley, corn, grain sorghum, oats, rice, wheat, soybeans, 
  sunflower seed, canola, crambe, rapeseed, safflower, sesame seed, flaxseed,       
  mustard seed, and cellulosic crops, such as switchgrass and short rotation trees, 
  grown on farms, for the purpose of producing ethanol and/or biodiesel or any      
  other commodity or commodity by-product as determined and announced by            
  CCC used in ethanol and biodiesel production which is produced in the United      
  States and its territories.                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  All bioenergy producers are eligible to participate in the program. To            
  participate, ethanol producers must provide USDA with evidence of increased       
  production of bioenergy and increased purchase and utilization of agricultural    
  commodities related to that increased production. Biodiesel producers must        
  provide evidence of production and purchase and utilization of agricultural       
  commodities related to that production.                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Bioenergy producers.                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  USDA will collect information from bioenergy producers that request payments      
  under the Bioenergy Program as the Secretary may require to ensure that benefits  
  are paid only to eligible bioenergy producers for eligible commodities.           
  Bioenergy producers seeking program payments will have to meet minimum            
  requirements by providing information concerning the production of bioenergy.     
  Applicants must certify that they will abide by the Bioenergy Program             
  Agreement's provisions. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB          
  Circular No. A-87.                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  There is no preapplication coordination related to this program. This program is  
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  The Bioenergy Program sign-up period is from August 1 through August 31, or       
  as announced. To participate in the program, producers must complete a            
  Bioenergy Program Agreement, Form CCC 850 and Bioenergy Program Annual            
  Production Information, Form CCC-850 Supplement.                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  None.                                                                             
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section     
  below or Headquarters office.                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  From 1 to 30 days.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                            
  Any participant who is subject to an adverse determination may appeal the         
  determination by filing a written request with the Deputy Administrator at the    
  following address: Deputy Administrator, Commodity Operations, Farm Service

  Agency, Department of Agriculture, STOP 0550, 1400 Independence Avenue,           
  S.W., Washington, DC 20250-0550. To receive consideration, the participant

  must file the appeal within 30 days after written notice of the decision, which is
  the subject of the appeal, is mailed or otherwise made available to the

  participant. An appeal shall be considered to have been filed when personally     
  delivered in writing to the Deputy Administrator or when the properly addressed   
  request, postage paid, is postmarked. The Deputy Administrator may accept and     
                                                                                    
  act upon an appeal even though it is not timely filed if, in the judgement of the

                                                                                    
  Deputy Administrator, circumstances warrant such action.

                                                                                    
Renewals:

  None.                                                                             
                                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  USDA will pay eligible producers up to $150 million each FY on a quarterly        
  basis. Payments to each producer are capped at 5 percent of available funding     
  (up to $7.5 million) each FY. USDA will base ethanol payments on the increase     
  in ethanol production compared to the previous FY's production and biodiesel      
  payments on the biodiesel production each FY. Payments will be structured to      
                                                                                    
  encourage participation of producers with less than 65 million gallons annual

                                                                                    
  production capacity. Producers with total annual production of: (a) less than 65

                                                                                    
  million gallons are reimbursed 1 feedstock unit for every 2.5 used for increased

                                                                                    
  production; (b) 65 million gallons or more are reimbursed 1 feedstock unit for

                                                                                    
  every 3.5 used for increased production. In addition, biodiesel producers are

                                                                                    
  reimbursed for base production at 50 percent the rate of increased production. If

                                                                                    
  the applications exceed the program's available funding, USDA will apply a

                                                                                    
  factor to payments to hold program expenditures to available funding for the      


                                                                               11-08
  applicable FY.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The program is funded at up to $150 million each FY for FYs 2003 through
  2006.
Reports:
  Multiple FY Agreements require annual production estimate reports to be
  submitted during each applicable FY sign-up period. Such reports must comply
  with the terms of the Agreement and Bioenergy Program regulations. In all
  cases, the accounting for compliance will be made on a per FY basis.
Audits:
  Participants under this program are subject to audit by the Office of the Regional
  Inspector General, Department of Agriculture.
Records:
  Bioenergy producers or any other individual or entity receiving payments for
  Bioenergy Program shall maintain and retain financial books and records which
  will permit verification of all transactions for at least 3 years, following the end
  of the calendar year in which payments were received.
Account Identification:
  12-4336-0-1-271.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $60,000,000; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program is announced through news media and is posted on Farm Service
  Agency website. Regulations published in Title IX, Section 9010, Farm Security
  and Rural Investment Act of 2002. Bioenergy Program fact sheet may be
  located online at
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/pas/publications/facts/html/Bioenergy03.htm.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, Kansas City Commodity
  Office, Contract Reconciliation Division, P.O. Box 419205, STOP 8758, Kansas
  City, MO 64141-6205. Telephone: (816) 926-6525.
Web Site Address:
  www.fsa.usda.gov/daco/bio_daco.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) All fuel ethanol production is eligible; however, ethanol under 200 proof will
  be converted to 200 proof gallons before payment calculations are made; (2)
  Ethanol producers must produce and sell ethanol commercially and have
  authority from the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives to
  produce ethanol for fuel or sell denatured ethanol rendered unfit for beverage
  use; (3) Biodiesel producers must produce and sell biodiesel commercially, and
  the biodiesel must be a mono alkyl ester manufactured in the United States that
  meets the American Society for Testing and Materials Standard's biodiesel
  standard.
10.079 BILL EMERSON HUMANITARIAN TRUST
   (EHT)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Sections 301 and 302, Title III of Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust. Section
  302 (c) of the Agricultural Act of 1980, as amended. The Emergency Wartime
  Supplemental Appropriations, Public Law 108-11.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide for a Trust solely to meet emergency humanitarian food needs in
  developing countries, the Secretary of Agriculture shall establish a trust stock of
  wheat, rice, corn, or sorghum, or any combination of the commodities, totaling
  not more than 4,000,000 metric tons for use as described.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Secretary may release eligible commodities only to the extent such release is
  consistent with maintaining the long-term value of the trust.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Developing countries that suffer from natural disasters (such as extreme drought,
  flood, earthquake, etc.), prolong war, prolong diseases, and/or acute hunger.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Developing countries.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                         13
