  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  There is no preapplication coordination related to this program. This program is    
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  None.                                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  None.                                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 1 to 30 days.                                                                  
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Release of commodities from the Trust can be triggered in two situations: 1)        
  when domestic supplies are insufficient to meet the availability criteria of Public 
  Law 480, or 2) when unanticipated needs for Title II, Public Law 480                
  commodities cannot be met in a timely manner under normal means of obtaining        
  commodities. In the second situation, the Secretary is authorized to release up to  
  500,000 metric tons from the Trust plus an additional 500,000 metric tons that      
  could have been but was not released, in previous years.                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The reserve was originally authorized by the Agricultural Trade Act of 1980 as

                                                                                      
  the Food Security Wheat Reserve. Subsequent legislation broadened the number

                                                                                      
  of commodities that can be held in the reserve and, in 1998, it was renamed the

                                                                                      
  Bill Emerson Humanitarian Trust. Most recently, the Farm Security and Rural

                                                                                      
  Investment Act of 2002 reauthorized the Emerson Trust through 2007.

                                                                                      
Reports:                                                                              
  None.

                                                                                      
Audits:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Records:

  None.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-4336-0-7-151.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Includes CCC transfer funds) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est      
  not reported.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Program is announced through news media and is posted on Farm Service               
  Agency website. Regulations published in Title III of Bill Emerson                  
  Humanitarian Trust. EHT fact sheet may be located online at                         
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/excredits/pl480/Emersontrust.htm.                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, Kansas City Commodity               
  Office, 6501 Beacon Drive, Kansas City, MO 64131-4676. Telephone: (816)             
  926-6715.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/daco/Default.htm.                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The Secretary is authorized to release commodities from the reserve to meet         
  unanticipated emergency needs that cannot otherwise be met under Public Law         
  480, the U.S. government's major humanitarian food aid program. The                 
  Secretary is also authorized to release eligible commodities for use under Public   
  Law 480 if the domestic supply of that commodity is determined to be in limited     
  supply and would not meet the availability criteria of Public Law 480.              
                                                                                      
10.080 MILK INCOME LOSS CONTRACT PROGRAM                                              
                                                                                      
     (MIL)                                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Section 1502 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, Public          
  Law. 107-171; 7 U.S.C. 7981 and 7982; 15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To maintain and expand existing markets for dairy which are vital to the welfare    


14                                                                              11-08

  of milk producers in the United States. Payments under this program will be
  limited to dairy operations that produced milk in the United States and
  commercially marketed milk during the period of December 1, 2001 through
  September 30, 2005.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Each fiscal year, eligible dairy operations can receive a monthly payment based
  on monthly milk marketing, up to a maximum of 2.4 million pounds per dairy
  operation, for the fiscal year. Dairy operations who make changes to their
  producer status or who reconstitute their farm operations on or after December 1,
  2001 for the sole purpose of receiving additional payments will not be eligible
  for the benefits under the program implemented by this rule.
Applicant Eligibility:
  To be eligible, dairy producers must: (1) have produced milk in the United
  States and commercially marketed the milk produced anytime during the period
  of December 1, 2001 through September 30, 2005; (2) enter into a MIL contract
  during the contract application period; (3) agree to all terms and conditions in
  the MIL contract and comply with instructions issued by the Commodity Credit
  Corporation; (4) provide proof of monthly milk production commercially
  marketed by all persons in the dairy operation during the contract period, to
  determine the total pounds of milk that will be converted to hundredweight
  (cwt.) used for payment; (5) submit timely production evidence according to
  Sec. 1430.209; (6) be actively engaged in the business of producing and
  marketing agricultural products at the time of signing the MIL contract; (7) in
  administering this program, the eligibility determination of dairy operation shall
  be made in the same manner as Dairy Market Loss Assistance (DMLA)
  contracts in that State; and (8) new MIL contract operations must be unaffiliated
  with prior DMLA operations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible dairy producers are those who, beginning December 1, 2001 through
  September 30, 2005: (1) commercially produce and market cow milk in the
  United States, or (2) produce milk in the United States and commercially market
  the milk outside the United States. In addition, dairy producers from a foreign
  country who have a working visa or other valid taxpayer identification number
  are eligible for MIL contract benefits.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Before MIL contract payments are issued, all persons involved in a single dairy
  operation must provide evidence of eligible marketing. Verifiable production
  evidence can include: (1) milk marketing payment stubs, (2) tank records, (3)
  milk handler records, (4) daily milk marketing, and (5) copies of any payments
  received as compensation from other sources.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  To apply for the MIL contract program, dairy operation producers must submit
  form CCC-580, "Milk Income Loss Contract," to Farm Service Agency (FSA)
  county office where the dairy operation is located. The CCC-580 must show
  total pounds of all milk produced and marketed during each month for all
  persons receiving a share of the marketed milk. Monthly milk production may
  not be apportioned to circumvent the maximum payment quantity. All persons
  who share in the risk of a dairy operation's total production must certify
  information on the CCC-580. FSA will accept only one CCC-580 per operation.
   When applying for a MIL contract, operators must also have on file: (1) form
  AD-1026, "Highly Erodible Land Conservation and Wetland Conservation
  Certification," used to certify understanding of the conservation compliance
  requirements under USDA programs; and (2) form SF-1199A, "Direct Deposit
  Sign Up Form," used to sign up for the direct deposit of payments into the
  payee's account.
Award Procedure:
  The Price Support Division (PSD) in Washington DC is responsible for the
  implementation of the MIL contract program in county offices. They will
  manage the contracts and determine the eligibility of monthly payments for each
  contract.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section
  below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 1 to 60 days.
Appeals:
  Any producer who is dissatisfied with a determination may request
  reconsideration or appeal of such determination under Part 11 or 780 of 7 CFR
  Part 1430.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Payments under this program may be made to dairy operations when the Boston
  Class I milk price under the applicable Federal milk marketing order is below
  $16.94 per cwt. No payments will be made to dairy operations for marketing
  during the months that the Boston Class I milk price under the applicable milk
