  marketing order exceeds $16.94.                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Except as provided in Sections 1430.205 and 1430.206, contracts entered into        
  by producers in a dairy operation shall cover eligible production marketed by       
  producers during the period beginning with the first day of the month producers     
  enter into contract and ending on September 30, 2005. If a dairy goes out of        
  business during the contracted period, the MIL contract program will be             
  terminated immediately, except as applicable to earned payments.                    
Reports:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  Recipients under this program are subject to audit by the Office of the Regional    
  Inspector General, USDA.                                                            
Records:                                                                              
  Producers approved for benefits under this program must maintain accurate           
  records and accounts in order to document that they meet all eligibility            
  requirements specified herein, as may be requested by the Commodity Credit          
  Corporation or the Farm Service Agency. Such records and accounts must be           
  retained for 3 years after the date of payment to the dairy operation under this    
  program. Destruction of the records 3 years after the date of payment shall be      
  the risk of the party undertaking the destruction.                                  
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-4336-0-1-351.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $330,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est        
  not reported.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Program is announced through news media and in letters to agricultural              
  producers in the county. Regulations published in the Federal Register, 7 CFR       
  part 1430. MIL Fact Sheet may be located online at                                  
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/pas/publications/facts/html/milc02.htm.                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Consult the local phone directory for location of the nearest county FSA office.    
  If no listing, contact the appropriate State FSA office listed in the FSA section of
  Appendix IV of the Catalog, or on the Internet at http://www.fsa.usda.gov/edso/.    
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, Price Support Division, Stop        
  0512, 1400 Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250-0517.                      
  Telephone: (202) 720-1919.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/dafp/psd/MILC.htm .                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  All producers meeting eligibility requirements may receive assistance.              
  Applications are non-competitive.                                                   
                                                                                      
10.081 LAMB MEAT ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE                                                
PROGRAM                                                                               
                                                                                      
   (LMA)                                                                              
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  The Act of August 24, 1935, Section 32.                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The purpose of this program is to provide benefits to sheep and lamb producers      
  in order to reestablish their purchasing power in connection with the normal        
  production of sheep and lambs for domestic consumption and boost the long-          
  term development and growth of sheep and lamb farming in the United States.         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  This program is designed to provide immediate financial assistance to sheep and     
  lamb producers who have recently experienced low prices and poor market             
  conditions. Payments under this program will provide those who are eligible         
  with an immediate infusion of funds to help pay for operating expenses and meet     
  other financial obligations. The Farm Service Agency (FSA) will provide with        
  respect to sheep and lamb operations: Year 1, payments are for purchasing           
  eligible rams for breeding, enrolling their herd in a sheep improvement program,    
  and for making improvements to their production facilities; Year 2, Year 3, and     
  Year 4 payments are for marketing of eligible slaughtered lambs, feeder lambs,      
  or ewe lambs.                                                                       


                                                                                 11-08
Applicant Eligibility:
  To be eligible, applicants must be engaged in the business of producing and
  marketing agricultural products at the time of application. In addition,
  slaughtered lambs must meet the following criteria: (1) be marketed during
  August 1, 2001 through July 31, 2003; (2) be owned by operation at least 30
  days before marketing; (3) carcasses must: (a) meet the requirements of USDA
  Quality Grade Choice or Prime, (b) meet the requirements of USDA Yield Grade
  2, (c) have a muscling confirmation score of Average Choice or better, (d) have
  a 55-75 pound dressed hot carcass weight, (e) be certified by a USDA
  Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) agent or an assigned representative, (f)
  be marketed between June 1 and July 31 of each program year in order to receive
  the $8 per carcass incentive payment. Feeder lambs must: (1) be marketed
  during the period August 1, 2001 through July 31, 2003; (2) be owned by the
  operation continuously from birth until the time of marketing; (3) be thick-
  muscled and large framed, as determined by AMS. Ewe lambs must: (1) not be
  older than 18 months of age; (2) not have produced an offspring; (3) not possess
  the characteristics of parrot mouth, foot rot, or scrapie; (4) be maintained in the
  herd for at least one complete offspring lambing cycle. Furthermore, eligible
  lamb producers must have in 1999 gross annual revenue of $2.5 million or less.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Sheep and lamb producers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  In order to receive payments, the sheep and lamb operation must submit
  supporting documentation of the cost of the improvements made to the facility
  during program Year 1 and must use facility improvements for sheep and lamb
  production activities continuously for at least the next 3 consecutive years. For
  slaughtered lambs, an Agricultural Marketing Service (AMS) agent or an
  assigned representative of AMS must verify that lamb carcasses meet the
  payment criteria. The condition of qualifying feeder lambs and ewe lambs must
  also be certified to by the AMS agent or an assigned AMS representative.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A request for Year 1 benefits under this program must be submitted via a
  completed Form FSA-382. A request for Year 2, Year 3, and Year 4 benefits
  under this program must be submitted via a completed Form FSA-383. The
  Forms FSA-382/3 should be submitted to FSA Office serving the county where
  the sheep and lamb operation is located.
Award Procedure:
  The Price Support Division (PSD) in Washington DC is responsible for making
  payments of LMA assistance program through FSA Service Center Offices.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section
  below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 1 to 30 days.
Appeals:
  Any sheep and lamb operation which is dissatisfied with a determination may
  make a request for reconsideration or appeal of such determination in
  accordance with the appeal regulations set forth at parts 11 and 780 of 7 CFR
  part 784.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  For Year 1 Producers will receive up to $100 for each ram that is purchased for
  breeding purposes, at least 90 days old at the time of purchase, and will be
  maintained for at least 90 days. The maximum ram payment allowed per sheep
  and lamb operation for rams is $2,500. Producers will receive $.50 for each
  sheep enrolled in an authorized sheep improvement program; however, the
  maximum sheep improvement payment is $500. The facility improvement
  option will provide producers with a payment of 20 percent of the total cost of
  the facility improvement, not to exceed $2,500 per sheep and lamb operation.
  Improvements that must be made during Year 1 must be used in the sheep and
  lamb operation for at least the next 3 consecutive years and producers must
  submit cost documentation of the improvements made. The maximum
  combined total payments to a sheep and lamb operation are $5,500. For Year 2
  and Year 3 Payment rates for feeder and slaughter lambs include $3 per head for
  feeder lambs, $5 per head for slaughter lambs, and $8 total per head for
  slaughter lambs marketed during June 1 through July 31. For Year 4 Payment
  rates are $3 per head for feeder lambs, $5 per head for slaughtered lambs, $8
  total per head for slaughtered lambs marketed during June 1 through July 31,
  $18 per head for each ewe lamb purchased or retained for breeding purposes
  during the period of August 1, 2001 through July 31, 2003. There are no
  maximum payments or herd limits, but feeder lamb producers whose gross
  income for calendar year 2001 or 2002 exceed $2.5 million are ineligible for
  payments. In order to receive the $8 per carcass incentive payment, slaughter
  lambs must be marketed between June 1 and July 31 of each program year.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  This program has four benefit years.
Reports:
                                                                                        15
