  None.                                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  Recipients under this program are subject to audit by the Office of the Regional    
  Inspector General, USDA.                                                            
Records:                                                                              
  Persons making application for benefits under this program must maintain            
  accurate records and accounts in order to document that they meet all eligibility   
  requirements specified herein. Such records and accounts must be retained for 3     
  years after the date of payment to the sheep and lamb operations under this         
  program. Destruction of the records after such date shall be the risk of the party  
  undertaking the destruction.                                                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-4336-0-1-351.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not              
  reported.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Not available at this time.                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Program is announced through news media and in letters to agricultural              
  producers in the county. Regulations published in the Federal Register, 7 CFR       
  part 784. LMA Fact Sheet may be located online at                                   
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/pas/publications/facts/html/lamb02.htm.                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Consult the local phone directory for location of the nearest county FSA Office.    
  If no listing, contact the appropriate State FSA Office listed in the FSA section   
  of Appendix IV of the Catalog, or on the Internet at                                
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/edso/.                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, Price Support Division, Stop        
  0512, 1400 Independence Avenue S.W., Washington, DC 20250-0517.                     
  Telephone: (202) 720-1919.                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/dafp/psd/lamb.htm.                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  All producers meeting eligibility requirements may receive assistance.              
  Applications are non-competitive.                                                   
                                                                                      
10.082 TREE ASSISTANCE PROGRAM                                                        
                                                                                      
     (TAP)                                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  Section 3602 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, Public

                                                                                      
  Law 108-83.

                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                      
  This program provides assistance to tree, bush and vine owners who have trees,

                                                                                      
  bushes or vines lost by a natural disaster. The statute authorizes payments only

                                                                                      
  for eligible owners who actually replant or rehabilitate eligible trees, bushes and

                                                                                      
  vines and who produce annual crops from trees for commercial purposes.

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                      
  Eligible owners must execute all required documents, comply with all applicable

                                                                                      
  noxious weed laws, and complete the TAP funded practice within 12 months of

                                                                                      
  application approval. Participants must allow representatives of FSA to visit the

                                                                                      
  site for the purposes of certifying compliance with TAP requirements.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  To be eligible for TAP payments the owner must: (1) Own the stand on which

                                                                                      
  the claim for benefits is based; (2) Have owned it at the time the natural disaster

                                                                                      
  occurred; (3) Have continuously owned the stand until the TAP application is

                                                                                      
  submitted; (4) Annual gross revenue not to exceed $2.5 million for the preceding    
  tax year; (5) Federal, State, local governments and agencies as well as political   
  subdivisions thereof are not eligible for benefits.                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  An individual owner who has trees, bushes or vines lost by a natural disaster.      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  To be considered an eligible loss: (1) Trees, bushes or vines must have been lost   
  as a result of a natural disaster; (2) The individual stand must have sustained a   
  loss in excess of 15 percent after adjustment for normal mortality; (3) The loss    
  could not have been prevented through reasonable and available measures; (4)        
  The trees, bushes or vines would not normally have been rehabilitated or            
  replanted within the 12-month period following the loss; (5) The damage must



16                                                                              11-08

  be visible and obvious to the County Committee except that if the damage is no
  longer visible, the County Committee may accept other evidence of the loss as it
  determines is reasonable. County Committee may require information from an
  expert in the case of plant disease or insect infestation.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A complete application for TAP benefits and related supporting documentation
  must be submitted to the county office prior to the deadline that FSA announces.
   A complete application includes all of the following: (1) A form provided by
  FSA; (2) A written estimate of the number of trees, bushes or vines lost or
  damaged which is prepared by the owner or someone who is a qualified expert,
  as determined by the County Committee; (3) The number of acres on which the
  loss was suffered; (4) Sufficient evidence of the loss to allow the County
  Committee to calculate whether an eligible loss occurred.
Award Procedure:
  The County Committee: (1) Must make recommendations and an eligibility
  determination based on a complete application on those requests that it wants to
  refer to a higher approval official; (2) Will verify actual qualifying losses and the
  number of acres involved by on-site visual inspection of the land and trees,
  bushes or vines; (3) May request additional information and may consider all
  relevant information in making its determination including its members' own
  knowledge about the applicant's normal operations.
Deadlines:
  To be announced.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  About 30 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Subject to the availability of TAP funds, an approved owner shall be reimbursed
  in an amount not to exceed 75 percent of the eligible costs for the qualifying loss
  (that loss over and above the calculated 15 percent mortality). The payment
  shall be the lesser of the actual costs for the replanting or the amount calculated
  using rates established by the County Committee (not to exceed the maximum
  amount the Deputy Administrator establishes). (1) When lost stands are
  replanted, the types planted may be different than those originally planted if the
  new types have the same general end use, as the County Committee determines.
  Payments will be based on the lesser of rates established to plant the types
  actually lost or the cost to establish the alternative used. (2) If the species of
  plantings, seedlings or cuttings differs significantly from the species lost, as the
  County Committee determines, the costs may not be reimbursed. (3) Owners
  may elect not to replant the entire eligible stand. If so, the County Committee
  shall calculate payment based on the number of qualifying trees, bushes or vines
  actually replanted. (4) The cumulative total quantity of acres planted to trees,
  bushes or vines for which a person may receive assistance shall not exceed 500
  acres. (5) The cumulative amount of TAP payments, which any person may
  receive, shall not exceed $75,000 per program year. (6) If the total of all eligible
  TAP claims received exceeds the available TAP funds, payments shall be
  reduced by a uniform national percentage after the imposition of applicable
  payment limitation provisions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Payment is made by check or direct deposit after determining applicant
  eligibility.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  Recipients under this program are subject to audit by the Office of the Regional
  Inspector General, USDA.
Records:
  An owner or any other individual or entity receiving assistance for TAP shall
  maintain and retain financial books and records which will permit verification of
  all transactions for at least 3 years, following the end of the calendar year in
  which assistance was provided.
Account Identification:
  12-4336-0-4-350.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program is announced through news media and in letters to agricultural
  producers in the county. Regulations published in the Federal Register, 7 CFR
  Part 783.
Regional or Local Office:
