EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  None.                                                                                
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
10.168 FARMERS' MARKET PROMOTION PROGRAM

                                                                                       
     (Farmers' Market Promotion Program)                                               
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                        
  AGRICULTURE                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Section 5 of the Farmer-to-Consumer Direct Marketing Act of 1976, Public Law         
  94-463, as amended by Section 10605 of the Farm Security and Rural                   
  Investment Act of 2002, Public Law 107-171.                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To increase domestic consumption of agricultural commodities by improving            
  and expanding, or assisting in the improvement and expansion of, domestic            
  farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture programs,          
  and other direct producer-to-consumer market opportunities; and develop, or aid      
  in the development of, new farmers markets, roadside stands, community-              
  supported agriculture programs, and other direct producer-to-consumer                
  infrastructures.                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Projects must improve and expand, or assist in the improvement and expansion         
  of, domestic farmers markets, roadside stands, community-supported agriculture       
  programs, and other direct producer-to-consumer market opportunities through         
  innovative approaches to market operations and management, improving access          
  to relevant marketing and financial information, and consumer-based education        
  and market access. Eligible entities must apply for FMPP funds on behalf of          
  direct marketing operations that include two or more farmers/farm vendors who        
  produce and sell their own products through a common distribution channel.           
  Use of funds are based on documented needs, excluding, however, routine              
  operational expenses such as management salaries or other salaries associated        
  with normal operation of farm markets/marketing entities, utility bills, and         
  insurance premiums. FMPP grant funds cannot be used to pay for acquisition,          
  repair, rehabilitation, or construction of a building or facility; acquisition of    
  land; political or lobbying activities; or any activities prohibited by 7 CFR parts  
  3015 and 3019. Additional detail and justification must be provided for any          
  purchase that is expected to exceed $5,000.                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Agricultural cooperatives, local governments, nonprofit corporations, public         
  benefit corporations, economic development corporations, regional farmers            
                                                                                       
  market authorities, and Tribal governments. Projects must be located within the

                                                                                       
  50 States or the District of Columbia.

                                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Direct marketing operations that include two or more farm vendors who produce        
  and sell their own products through a common marketing channel, and                  
  consumers.                                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:

  Applicants must provide documentation as to how they meet the definition of an       
  eligible entity.

                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental

                                                                                       
  Review of Federal Programs. An applicant should consult the office or official

                                                                                       
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information

                                                                                       
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the

                                                                                       
  State has selected the program for review.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Applicants must submit forms SF-424, SF-424A, and SF-424B, an eligibility

                                                                                       
  statement, a narrative description of the proposal including project title,

                                                                                       
  executive summary, goals, background, workplan and resource requirements,

                                                                                       
  and expected results, a supplemental budget summary, and any supporting              
  documents such as letters of support.                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Applications are reviewed and approved or disapproved by the Agricultural            
  Marketing Service in competition with other applications received. Grantees are      
  notified of the amount awarded by allotment letter. Grant payments are made on       
  a reimbursable basis.                                                                
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Contact the Farmers Market Promotion Program contact for application                 
  deadlines.                                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  120 to 180 days from the application deadline.                                       
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              


24                                                                               11-08

  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects are not to exceed 18 months. Grant payments are made on an as-needed
  basis over the grant period. Advance payments may be requested.
Reports:
  Progress reports are required at the midpoint of projects approved for one year
  and at 6-month intervals for projects of longer duration. A final report of results
  and accomplishments and form SF 269A must be submitted no later than 90
  days after the grant ends.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, which implement OMB
  Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, nonfederal entities that expend less
  than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for that year, except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.
Records:
  Grantees and sub-grantees must keep all records relating to the grant for 3 years
  from the date the SF-269A is submitted to the Agricultural Marketing Service.
Account Identification:
  12-2501-0-1-352.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 est $1,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The maximum grant is $75,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Guidelines for the Farmer Market Promotion Program are posted at
  http://www.ams.usda.gov/tmd/MSB/index.htm or may be obtained from the
  Farmers Market Promotion Program contact.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Farmers Market Promotion Program, Marketing Services Branch, Transportation
  and Marketing Programs, Agricultural Marketing Service, USDA, Room 2646-
  South, STOP 0269, 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W., Washington, DC 20250-
  0269. Telephone: (202) 720-8317. Contact: Errol Bragg.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ams.usda.gov/tmd/MSB/index.ht
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are evaluated on the following criteria: need for the project, direct
  benefit to farmers/vendors, project innovation, degree of
  collaboration/partnerships and farmer/producer participation, quantitative
  evaluation and measurement of the project's impact, long-term project
  sustainability, transferability of project outcomes, and reasonableness of the
  budget.
10.169 SPECIALTY CROP BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM
   (SPECIALTY CROP BLOCK GRANT PROGRAM)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  AGRICULTURAL MARKETING SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Specialty Crops Competitiveness Act of 2004, Section 101, 7 U.S.C. 1621 note.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase fruit, vegetable, and nut consumption and improve the
  competitiveness of United States specialty crop producers.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Projects must enhance the competitiveness of specialty crops.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State department of agriculture, agency, commission, or department of a State
  government responsible for agriculture within the State.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Producers, processors, marketing agencies, universities, and general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  A grant agreement is entered into between the Agricultural Marketing Service
  and the State department of agriculture that submits the application.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, which
  requires intergovernmental consultation with State and local officials. See the
  Notice related to 7 CFR Part 3015, Subpart V published at 48 FR 29115 (June
