Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Sixteen 1890 Land-Grant Colleges and Tuskegee University as specified in the        
  Act. Funds are appropriated by Congress for distribution to eligible institutions   
  in accordance with the statutory formula as stated in the Act. This program is      
  available in the States of Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia,           
  Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina,               
  Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia.            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Sixteen 1890 Land-Grant Colleges and Tuskegee University as specified in the        
  Act. Funds are appropriated by Congress for distribution to eligible institutions   
  in accordance with the statutory formula as stated in the Act. This program is

  available in the States of Alabama, Arkansas, Delaware, Florida, Georgia,           
  Kentucky, Louisiana, Maryland, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina,

  Oklahoma, South Carolina, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia, and West Virginia.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.           
Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102           
  and E.O. 12372.                                                                     
Application Procedure:                                                                
  No application necessary for the release of funds, but funds must be accounted      
  for by projects previously approved by CSREES. This program is subject to the       
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 as implemented by 7 CFR Part 3019.             
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  To receive an annual allotment of funds, each eligible institution or State must    
  first submit a plan of work to CSREES for approval.                                 
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  None.                                                                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.

                                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                      
  Fiscal year appropriated. Unobligated balance in excess of five percent on

                                                                                      
  September 30 deducted from subsequent year allocation. Funds released

                                                                                      
  quarterly under the electronic transfer system.

                                                                                      
Reports:

                                                                                      
  Eligible recipients will be notified by CSREES of any changes in plan of work

                                                                                      
  and reporting due dates or other requirements.

                                                                                      
Audits:

                                                                                      
  Audits will be conducted in accordance with guidelines established in the

                                                                                      
  revised OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and

                                                                                      
  Non-Profit Organizations," and implemented in 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of

                                                                                      
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations."

                                                                                      
Records:

  Maintained by project. Retain payment documents three years.                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-1500-0-1-352.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $38,366,135; FY 08 est $36,251,543; and FY 09 est not                
  reported.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $518,078 to $1,539,502. Average: $1,571,245.                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  This program supports continuing agricultural research at the 1890 Colleges and     
  Tuskegee University. This program also supports development of agricultural         
  expertise by providing training opportunities for students to assist in the research
  projects being conducted by scientists at these institutions.                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Administrative Manual for Evans-Allen Cooperative Agricultural Research, May        
  1982; 7 CFR Part 3015, USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations; 7 CFR           
  Part 3017, Government wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and            
  Government wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR Part           
  3018, New Restrictions on Lobbying; and 7 CFR Part 3019, Uniform                    
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of          
  Higher Education, Hospitals, and other nonprofit organizations.                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  National Program Leader, Multicultural Alliances, Cooperative State Research,       
  Education, and Extension Service, Department of Agriculture; Stop 2251; 1400        
  Independence Avenue, SW; Washington, DC 20250-2251; Telephone:                      
  (202)720-3511.                                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.reeusda.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.001, Agricultural Research_Basic and Applied Research; 10.200, Grants for        


                                                                                 11-08
  Agricultural Research, Special Research Grants; 10.202, Cooperative Forestry
  Research; 10.203, Payments to Agricultural Experiment Stations Under the
  Hatch Act; 10.206, Grants for Agricultural Research_Competitive Research
  Grants; 10.207, Animal Health and Disease Research; 10.219, Biotechnology
  Risk Assessment Research; 10.250, Agricultural and Rural Economic Research;
  10.500, Cooperative Extension Service; 10.652, Forestry Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
10.206 GRANTS FOR AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH-
COMPETITIVE RESEARCH GRANTS
  (NATIONAL RESEARCH INITIATIVE COMPETITIVE GRANTS
  PROGRAM)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 2(b), Public Law 89-106, 7 U.S.C. 450i(b), as amended; Section 1414,
  Public Law 95-113; Section 1415, Public Law 97-98; Section 1409, Public Law
  99-198; Section 1615, Public Law 101- 624; Public Law 104-127; Public Law
  105-185; Public Law 108-7.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support research, education and extension grants that address key problems
  of national, regional and multistate importance in sustaining all components of
  agriculture (farming, ranching, forestry, aquaculture, rural communities, human
  nutrition and obesity, food and fiber processing, etc.) Providing this support to
  US agriculture requires that the NRI advance fundamental. Building on these
  discoveries will necessitate new efforts in education and extension that deliver
  science-based knowledge to people, allowing them to make informed practical
  decisions. All grants are awarded on a competitive basis.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The selected areas for research, education and extension grants are broad and
  change as the needs of US agriculture change. Applicants should check the
  request for applications for changes. Priorities are identified for: agricultural
  security; plant science and plant pathology; animal science; entomology and
  nematology; natural resources and environment; nutrition/obesity; food quality
  and health; markets and trade; rural development; new products and processes;
  and nanotechnology. Grant funds may be used for costs necessary to conduct
  research, education and extension (salaries and wages, scientific equipment,
  materials and supplies, travel, publication costs, and other allowable direct and
  indirect costs). Applicants should check the annual request for applications for
  limitation on indirect costs. The primary responsibility for general supervision
  of all grant activities rests with the grantee organization; the project director is
  responsible for the work defined in the grant. Funds may not be used for
  purposes other than those specified in the grant.
Applicant Eligibility:
  For research grants applicant eligibility includes State Agricultural Experiment
  Stations, U.S. colleges/universities, other U.S. research institutions and
  organizations, Federal agencies, national laboratories, private organizations or
  corporations, and individuals. For integrated research, education and extension
  grants eligibility includes State Agricultural Experiment Stations, U.S.
  colleges/universities, research foundations maintained by colleges or
  universities, private research organizations with established and demonstrated
  capacities to perform research or technology transfer, Federal research agencies
  and national laboratories. Proposals from scientists at non-U.S. organizations
  will not be considered for support.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  For research grants eligibility includes State Agricultural Experiment Stations,
  U.S. colleges/universities, other U.S. research institutions and organizations,
  Federal agencies, national laboratories, private organizations or corporations,
  and individuals. For integrated research, education and extension grants
  eligibility includes State Agricultural Experiment Stations, U.S.
  colleges/universities, research foundations maintained by colleges or
  universities, private research organizations with established and demonstrated
  capacities to perform research or technology transfer, Federal research agencies
  and national laboratories. Proposals from scientists at non-U.S. organizations
  will not be considered for support.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each prospective grantee organization must furnish the organizational
  information and assurances specified in the guidelines. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  All proposal solicitations are published on the Agency's Web site. This program
  is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and E.O. 12372.
                                                                                         29
