Application Procedure:                                                                
  Formal proposal to National Research Initiative Competitive Grants Program,         
  USDA/CSREES as outlined in the guidelines. This program is subject to the           
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 as implemented by 7 CFR Part 3019.             
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  National Research Initiative Competitive Grants Program staff members review        
  and evaluate all proposals with the assistance and advice of a peer panel of        
  qualified scientists and other appropriate persons who are specialists in the field 
  covered by the proposal. Proposals are accepted in order of merit to the extent     
  permitted by available funds.                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Specific deadlines are announced in the request for applications or guidelines for  
  each fiscal year.                                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 90 to 180 days.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Proposals for renewal, should be submitted at the announced deadline.               
  Renewals are treated in competition with all other pending proposals.               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Normally, competitive research projects will be supported for periods of up to

  four years.

Reports:                                                                              
  Annual progress reports due within 90 days after anniversary of grant effective     
  date and final technical report due 90 days after expiration of grant. Federal      
  cash transaction reports and financial status reports as in Attachment G of OMB     
  Circular A-110.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  Audits will be conducted in accordance with guidelines established in the           
  revised OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and           
  Non-Profit Organizations," and implemented in 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of           
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations."                           
Records:                                                                              
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to insure that    
  funds are used for the purpose for which the grant was made. Records are            
  subject to inspection during life of the grant and for 3 years thereafter.          
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-1500-0-1-352.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $175,142,784; FY 08 est $240,084,000; and FY 09 est not              
  reported. Note: Grants are competitively awarded.                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $4,000 to $5,000,000. Average: $183,607.                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Significant accomplishments include: (1) Genomics - Support for international       
  efforts to complete a draft sequence of the rice and bovine genomes. The rice       
  sequence will serve as a model system that is now greatly accelerating the          
  understanding of all cereals. (2) Biofuels - research has resulted in the           
  development of more efficient bioprocessing of agricultural wastes into ethanol,    
  making the process much more economically viable. (3) Pests and Diseases -          
  Fundamental research has led to the development of a preventative treatment for     
  screw worm, a devastating pest of livestock. It is estimated that this development  
  will save US agriculture over $1 billion annually by preventing losses in           
  production and overcoming international trade barriers related to this pest. (For   
  more information see the program web site www.reeusda.gov/nri).                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Pages 61290-61306 Federal Register, Vol. 56, No. 231, Part II, December 2,          
  1991; 7 CFR 3015, USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations; 7 CFR Part           
  3017, Government wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and                 
  Government wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR Part           
  3018, New Restrictions on Lobbying. National Competitive Research Initiative        
  Grants Program Administrative Provisions, Federal Register, Vol. 56, No. 220,       
  Pages 57950-57958, November 14, 1991; and 7 CFR Part 3019, Uniform                  
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of          
  Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations.                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Chief Scientist, National Research Initiative Competitive Grants Program,           
  Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, Department of         
  Agriculture, Ag Box 2241, 14th and Independence Avenue, SW., Washington,            
  DC 20250-2241. Telephone: (202) 401-5022.                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.reeusda.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.001, Agricultural Research_Basic and Applied Research; 10.200, Grants for        
  Agricultural Research, Special Research Grants; 10.202, Cooperative Forestry        


30                                                                              11-08

  Research; 10.203, Payments to Agricultural Experiment Stations Under the
  Hatch Act; 10.205, Payments to 1890 Land-Grant Colleges and Tuskegee
  University; 10.207, Animal Health and Disease Research; 10.219,
  Biotechnology Risk Assessment Research; 10.250, Agricultural and Rural
  Economic Research; 10.652, Forestry Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Influence of the Amounts of Dietary Fat on the Absorbance of Plant Carotenes,
  Integrating Ecology and Economics for Managed Forest Landscapes, Smart
  Combination of Heating Modes for Improved Quality, Speed and Safety of Food
  Processing, RNA Dependent RNA Polymerases in Plant Antiviral Defense and
  Gene Silencing, Lympohpineal Interactions in the Chicken. Abstracts of all
  funded projects are available on the program web site www.reeusda.gov/nri.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  1. The scientific merit of the application for research, education and/or
  extension, including: (a) novelty innovation and originality, (b) where model
  systems are used the ability to transfer knowledge gained to organisms of
  importance to US agriculture,(c) conceptual adequacy, (d) clarity and
  delineation of objectives,(e) adequacy and suitability of the methodology
  (f)demonstration of feasibility through preliminary data (g) Probability of
  success. 2. Qualifications of the proposed project personnel and adequacy of the
  facilities 3. Planning and administration of the project 4. Relevance of the
  proposal to improvements in, and sustainability of, US agriculture as specified
  in the request for applications.
10.207 ANIMAL HEALTH AND DISEASE RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION AND EXTENSION
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977,
  Section 1433, Public Law 95-113, as amended; Section 1429, Public Law 97-98;
  Public Law 99-198; Public Law 101-624; Public Law 104-127; Public Law 105-
  185.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support animal health and disease research at eligible Schools and Colleges
  of Veterinary Medicine, and State Agricultural Experiment Stations whose
  purpose is to improve the health and productivity of food animals and horses
  through effective prevention, control or treatment of disease, reduction of losses
  from transportation and other hazards, and protect human health through control
  of animal diseases transmissible to people.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Research on animal health and disease of food animals and horses conducted in
  eligible institutions under the following categories: (1) Infectious diseases; (2)
  internal and external parasites; (3) noninfectious diseases, toxins, poisons,
  transportation losses, predators and other hazards; (4) diseases and parasites of
  wildlife transmissible to food animals and horses; and (5) diseases and parasites
  of animals transmissible to people.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligibility is restricted to the following public nonprofit institutions having
  demonstrable capacity in animal disease research: (1) Schools and Colleges of
  Veterinary Medicine; and (2) State Agricultural Experiment Stations. Funds are
  appropriated by Congress for distribution to States and eligible State institutions
  according to the statutory formula stated in the Act.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligibility is restricted to the following public nonprofit institutions having
  demonstrable capacity in animal disease research: (1) Schools and Colleges of
  Veterinary Medicine; and (2) State Agricultural Experiment Stations. Funds are
  appropriated by Congress for distribution to States and eligible State institutions
  according to the statutory formula stated in the Act.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The current capacity in food animal health and disease research must be
  documented annually by eligible institutions. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  All eligible institutions must file a current, certified list of animal health and
  disease research capacity prior to the fiscal year for which funds are
  appropriated. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.
  A-102 and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  No application is necessary, but payment of funds is contingent on the approval
  of an annual plan for programs to be conducted. Funds can be expended only on
  projects approved by CSREES. This program is subject to the provisions of
  OMB Circular No. A-110 as implemented by 7 CFR Part 3019.
Award Procedure:
  The release of funds to eligible institutions is contingent upon the filing of an
  approved Program of Research and the certification that required nonfederal
  funds are available to meet matching requirements. Funds can be expended only
