  by the recipient institution and only on research having had prior approval by       
  The Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES).           
Deadlines:                                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  None.

Appeals:                                                                               
  None.

Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  The Act provides that the Secretary in consultation with the Animal Health           
  Science Research Advisory Board shall distribute 48 percent of the funds to the      
  States on the basis of livestock value and income as determined by the               
  Department of Agriculture data. Forty-eight percent of the funds shall be            
  distributed on the basis of animal health and disease research capacity of eligible  
  institutions. Distribution of a State's allocation among its eligible institutions is
  made on the basis of the animal health research capacity of these institutions.      
  Animal health research capacity is measured by the annual expenditures               
  (excluding Section 1433 funds) and scientist year equivalents in animal health       
  and disease research in eligible institutions. The Act limits the annual Federal     
  payment a State may receive in excess of $100,000 to that amount made                
  available and budgeted from nonfederal sources for expenditures on animal            
  health and disease research.                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Funds must be expended or obligated in the year for which the appropriation          
  was made. Unliquidated obligations must be paid in the fiscal year following the     
  year of appropriation. Funds are released quarterly as needed to finance current     
  operations.                                                                          
Reports:                                                                               
  Fiscal year annual plan of work due August 15 of each year for the fiscal year       
  starting in October. Annual program financial report due December 1; Annual          
  progress report due February 15; Certification of Offset and Entitlement due         
  prior to October 1; Past year Obligations by Project due December 15.                
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No A-133(Revised, June 27,         
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"           
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No A-133.                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  Maintained by project. Retain payment documents three years.                         
Account Identification:                                                                
  12-1500-0-1-352.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,651,359; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported.                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $1,586 to 408,854. Average: $65,515.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                       
  Example of accomplishments include: Researchers developed the J-5 vaccine to

                                                                                       
  prevent coliform mastitis infections in dairy cattle. This preventive strategy also

                                                                                       
  reduces use of antibiotics protecting consumers from possible drug residues.

                                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Administrative Manual for the Continuing Animal Health and Disease Research          
  Program, August 1982; 7 CFR Part 3015, USDA Uniform Federal Assistant                
  Regulations; 7 CFR Part 3017, Government wide Debarment and Suspension               
  (Nonprocurement) and Government wide Requirements for Drug-Free                      
                                                                                       
  Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR Part 3018, New Restrictions on Lobbying; and 7

                                                                                       
  CFR Part 3019, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and

                                                                                       
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other

                                                                                       
  Nonprofit Organizations.

                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Headquarters Office:

  Deputy Administrator, Plant and Animal Science, Cooperative State Research,          
  Education, and Extension Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC          
  20250. Telephone: (202) 401-4329.                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.reeusda.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  10.001, Agricultural Research_Basic and Applied Research; 10.025, Plant and          
  Animal Disease, Pest Control, and Animal Care; 10.200, Grants for Agricultural       
  Research, Special Research Grants; 10.202, Cooperative Forestry Research;            
  10.203, Payments to Agricultural Experiment Stations Under the Hatch Act;            
  10.205, Payments to 1890 Land-Grant Colleges and Tuskegee University;                
  10.206, Grants for Agricultural Research_Competitive Research Grants; 10.219,        
  Biotechnology Risk Assessment Research; 10.250, Agricultural and Rural               
  Economic Research; 10.500, Cooperative Extension Service; 10.652, Forestry           
                                                                                       


                                                                                  11-08
  Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
10.210 FOOD AND AGRICULTURAL SCIENCES
NATIONAL NEEDS GRADUATE FELLOWSHIP GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as
  amended, Section 1417b(b)(6), Public Law 95-113, 7 U.S.C. 3152.
OBJECTIVES:
  To award grants to colleges and universities that have superior teaching and
  research competencies in the food and agricultural sciences to encourage
  outstanding students to pursue and complete a graduate degree at such
  institutions in an area of the food and agricultural sciences for which there is a
  national need for the development of scientific expertise. Therefore, institutions
  that currently have excellent programs of graduate study and research in the food
  and agricultural sciences dealing with targeted national needs are particularly
  encouraged to apply. Starting in fiscal year 1997, The Cooperative State
  Research, Education, and Extension Service (CSREES) will provide support on
  a biennial basis and combine appropriations from 2 fiscal years into one
  competition to be held during odd-numbered years.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Competitive annual grants providing for a limited number of graduate stipends
  are awarded to selected U.S. institutions of higher education so as to distribute
  support for graduate study to promising food and agricultural scientists and
  professionals. Individuals selected initially by the institution must enroll in a
  program leading to a graduate, master's or doctoral degree in one of the targeted
  national needs areas of the food and agricultural sciences. Such persons may not
  have been enrolled previously in the program at the same degree level. Current
  fellows are eligible to receive supplemental grants of $3,000 to cover travel and
  living expenses for special international study or thesis/dissertation research
  experiences. Funding for the supplemental grants will be awarded on a
  competitive basis using no-year funds drawn from expired fellowship grants
  with unspent funds remaining as set forth in the annual program guidelines.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Proposals may be submitted by all U.S. colleges and universities that confer a
  master's or doctoral degree in at least one area of the food and agricultural
  sciences targeted for national needs fellowships. As defined in Section 1404 of
  the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of
  1977, as amended (7 U.S.C. 3103), the terms "college" and "university" mean
  "an educational institution in any State which: (a) Admits as regular students
  only persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing
  secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate; (b) is
  legally authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond
  secondary education; (c) provides an educational program for which a bachelor's
  degree or any other higher degree is awarded; (d) is a public or other nonprofit
  institution; and (e) is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or
  association." Eligibility also applies to research foundations maintained by
  eligible colleges or universities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Funds awarded in this program are used to support the training of graduate
  students to obtain either a master's or doctoral degree in one of the targeted
  specializations of the food and agricultural sciences.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each prospective grantee institution must furnish the information and assurance
  specified in the guidelines. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  All proposal solicitations are published on the Agency's Web site. This program
  is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Formal proposal to the Office of Extramural Programs, CSREES, USDA, as
  outlined in the guidelines. Application procedures are contained in the Food and
  Agricultural Sciences National Needs Graduate Fellowships Grant Application
  Kit. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 as
  implemented by 7 CFR Part 3019. Starting in fiscal year 1997, CSREES will
  provide support on a biennial basis and combine appropriations from two fiscal
  years into one competition to be held during odd-numbered years.
Award Procedure:
  CSREES Higher Education Program staff members review and evaluate all
  proposals with the assistance and advice of a peer panel of qualified scientists,
  administrators, and other appropriate persons who are specialists in the field
                                                                                        31
