  covered by the proposal. Proposals are accepted in order of merit to the extent    
  permitted by available funds.                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Specific deadlines dates are announced in the request for applications or          
  guidelines for each fiscal year.                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 90 to 180 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. Contingent upon appropriations, funds are allocated to provide support       
  for doctoral fellows for 36 months and for masters fellows for 24 months.          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants cover a five-year period, however, fellows are supported for three years

  for a doctoral degree or two years for a masters during that five-year period.

Reports:                                                                             
  Documentation of fellowship appointments (Form CSRS-707) must be                   
  submitted by project directors upon request of CSREES. A graduate fellow exit

  report (Form CSRS-709) must be submitted by project directors for each fellow      
  supported by a grant as soon as a fellow is: (a) Graduated; or (b) officially      
  terminated from the program.                                                       
Audits:                                                                              
  Audits will be conducted in accordance with guidelines established in the          
  revised OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and          
  Non-Profit Organizations," and implemented in 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of          
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations."                          
Records:                                                                             
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to insure that   
  funds are used for the purpose for which the grant was made. Records are           
  subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for three years thereafter. 
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-1500-0-1-352.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $3,506,539; FY 08 est $4,276,800; and FY 09 est not reported.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Minimum and maximum amounts of funding per grant, as well as stipend levels,       
  are established by the annual program announcement.                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Since its inception in 1985, this program has supported Fellows in six areas of    
  the food and agricultural sciences deemed critical to agricultural research and    
  teaching. Recent targeted need areas are Animal Biotechnology; Food Science;       
  Food, Forest Products, or Agricultural Engineering; Agribusiness Marketing or      
  Management; Human Nutrition; Plant Biotechnology; and Water Science. An            
  example: One Fellow who conducted research leading to a dissertation on the        
  heat and mass transfer of hygroscopic porous materials, is now a university        
  Assistant Professor.                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  7 CFR Part 3402 (52 FR 4712, February 13, 1987, as amended by 55 FR 2214,          
  January 22, 1990); Application Kit for the Food and Agricultural Sciences          
  National Needs Graduate Fellowships Grants; 7 CFR Part 3015, USDA Uniform          
  Federal Assistance Regulations; 7 CFR Part 3017, Government wide Debarment         
  and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Government wide Requirements for               
  Drug- Free Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR Part 3018, Restrictions on Lobbying;          
  and 7 CFR Part 3019, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and            
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other             
  Nonprofit Organizations.                                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  National Program Leader; Higher Education Programs; Cooperative State

                                                                                     
  Research, Education, and Extension Service, USDA; 1400 Independence

                                                                                     
  Avenue, SW; STOP 2251, Washington, DC 20250-2251; Telephone: (202)720-

                                                                                     
  7854.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  http://www.reeusda.gov.

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                     
  10.216, 1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants; 10.217, Higher Education

                                                                                     
  Challenge Grants.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Grants for fellowships support are awarded to colleges and universities            
  determined through peer review to be characterized by excellence in the chosen     
                                                                                     
  targeted need areas.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  (1) The degree to which the proposal clearly establishes that the proposed

                                                                                     
  program of graduate training will result in the development of outstanding

                                                                                     
  scientific/professional expertise related to the national need area and in a

                                                                                     
  reasonable period of time; (2) the degree to which the proposed program of study

                                                                                     
  reflects special features such as a combination-disciplinary, approach (inter-

                                                                                     


32                                                                             11-08

  disciplinary, multi-disciplinary or cross-disciplinary), a unique collateral
  specialization in a related discipline, experimental learning opportunities, a
  unique mentoring program, seminars, or a multi-university collaborative
  approach; (3) the degree to which the proposal establishes that the institution's
  faculty, facilities and equipment, instructional support resources, and other
  attributes are excellent for providing outstanding graduate study and research at
  the forefront of science and technology related to the chosen area of national
  need; (4) the degree to which the institution's plans and procedures for
  recruitment and selection of academically outstanding fellows and for
  monitoring and facilitating fellow's progress through a program of study reflect
  excellence as documented in the proposal; (5) the degree to which supporting
  summary data substantiate program quality in the targeted national need area;
  and (6) the quality of the proposal as reflected by its substantive content,
  organization, clarity, and accuracy; (7) any additional evaluation criteria as cited
  in the annual program announcement published in the Federal Register.
10.212 SMALL BUSINESS INNOVATION RESEARCH
   (SBIR Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION AND EXTENSION
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Small Business Innovation Development Act of 1982, Public Law 97-219, as
  amended, Public Law 99-443; Public Law 102-564.
OBJECTIVES:
  To stimulate technological innovation in the private sector, strengthen the role of
  small businesses in meeting Federal research and development needs, increase
  private sector commercialization of innovations derived from USDA-supported
  research and development efforts, and foster and encourage participation, by
  women-owned and socially disadvantaged small business firms in technological
  innovation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The selected areas for research are Forests and Related Resources; Plant
  Production and Protection-Biology; Animal Production and Protection; Soil and
  Water Resources; Food Science and Nutrition; Rural and Community
  Development; Aquaculture; Industrial Applications; Marketing and Trade;
  Wildlife; Animal Manure Management, Small and Mid-size Farms, Plant
  Production and Protection-Engineering. The Small Business Innovation
  Research Program is carried out in three separate phases: Phase I projects are
  supported to determine the scientific or technical feasibility of ideas submitted
  by proposes on the selected research areas; Phase II awards are made to firms
  with approaches that appear sufficiently promising as a result of Phase I studies.
  Only those small businesses previously receiving Phase I awards in either of the
  two preceding fiscal years are eligible to submit Phase II proposals. Phase II
  projects are limited to $350,000 for a period normally not to exceed 24 months;
  Phase III is to be conducted by the small business concern (including joint
  ventures and limited partnerships), and will be non-SBIR funded through the
  exercising of a follow-on funding commitment. The purpose of Phase III is to
  stimulate technological innovation and the national return on investment from
  research through the pursuit of commercialization objectives resulting from the
  USDA-supported work carried out in Phases I and II.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicant Eligibility (1) is organized for profit, with a place of business located
  in the United States, which operates primarily within the United States, or which
  makes a significant contribution to the United States economy through the
  payment of taxes or use of American products, materials or labor; (2) is in the
  legal form of an individual proprietorship, partnership, limited liability
  company, corporation, joint venture, association, trust or cooperative, except
  that where the form is a joint venture, there can be no more than 49 percent
  participation by foreign business entities in the joint venture; (3) is at least 51
  percent owned and controlled by one or more individuals who are citizens of, or
  permanent resident aliens in, the United States, except in the case of a joint
  venture, where each entity in the venture must be 51 percent owned and
  controlled by one or more individuals who are citizens of, or permanent resident
  aliens in the United States; and (4) has, including its affiliates, not more than
  500 employees. The term "affiliates" is defined in greater detail in 13 CFR
  121.103. The term "number of employees" is defined in 13 CFR 121.106.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Small businesses.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each prospective grantee organization must furnish the organizational
  information and assurances specified in the SBIR program solicitation. The
  principles to be used in determining allowable costs of activities under this
  program are contained in the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48 CFR Part 31.
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
