  Publication by the Small Business Administration listing all agencies                
  participating in the program, their Small Business Innovation Research               
  coordinators, proposed dates for their solicitations, and proposed topic areas.      
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and              
  E.O. 12372.                                                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Formal proposal to SBIR Program, CSREES, USDA, as outlined in the SBIR               
  program solicitation. Application procedures are contained in the SBIR program       
  solicitation. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.          
  A-110.                                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The SBIR Program staff reviews and evaluates all proposals with the assistance       
  and advice of a peer panel of qualified scientists and other appropriate persons     
  who are specialists in the field covered by the proposal.                            
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section        
  below.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Six months from application receipt to notification of approval/disapproval.         
Appeals:                                                                               
  Phase I applications may be revised and resubmitted during a later funding           
  cycle, provided the subject matter of the proposal is not changed, and the topic     
  area under which the proposal was originally submitted is still listed in the        
  solicitation. Phase I grantees may apply for a Phase II grant only once for each     
  Phase I project funded.                                                              
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  There are no matching requirements.                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Phase I grants are normally limited to 8 months. Phase II grants are normally        
  limited to 2 years.                                                                  
Reports:                                                                               
  Final performance and final financial status reports for Phase I grants must be      
  submitted 30 and 90 days, respectively, after the expiration date of the grant.      
  Final performance and final financial status reports for Phase II grants must be     
  submitted 90 days after the expiration date of the grant.                            
Audits:

  Periodic audits should be made as part of the recipient's systems of financial

  management and internal control to meet the terms and conditions of grants and       
  other agreements. This program is also subject to audit by the cognizant Federal     
  audit agency and the USDA Office of Inspector General. Federal audits will be

                                                                                       
  made in accordance with the policies of the Federal Acquisition Regulations, 48      
  CFR Part 42, to ensure that funds have been applied efficiently, economically,       
  and effectively.                                                                     
Records:                                                                               
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that     
  funds are used for the purpose for which the grant was made. Records are             
  subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for at least 3 years after the
  date of submission of the final financial status report.                             
Account Identification:                                                                
  12-1500-0-1-352.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $15,599,447; FY 08 est $12,813,701; and FY 09 est not

                                                                                       
  reported.

                                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                       
  $54,215 to $350,000; $117,433.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  This program was designed to strengthen the role of small, innovative firms in       
  Federally-funded research and development. The thirteen categories of research       
  supported under this program are: Forests and Related Resources; Plant               
  Production and Protection-Biology; Animal Production and Protection; Soil and        
  Water Resources; Food Science and Nutrition; Rural and Community                     
  Development; Aquaculture; Industrial Applications; Marketing and Trade;              
  Wildlife; Animal Manure Management, Small and Mid-size Farms, Plant                  
  Production and Protection-Engineering.                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  7 CFR Part 3403, Small Business Innovation Research Grants Program,                  
                                                                                       
  Administrative Provisions, 62 FR 26168, May 12, 1997; 7 CFR Part 3015,

                                                                                       
  USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations; 7 CFR Part 3017, Government

                                                                                       
  wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Government wide

                                                                                       
  Requirements for Drug- Free Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR Part 3018, New

                                                                                       
  Restrictions on Lobbying; The Small Business Innovation Research Program

                                                                                       
  Reauthorization Act of 2000, Public Law 106-554, amended section 9 of the Act

                                                                                       
  (15 U.S.C. 638).

                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                       
  SBIR Director, Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service,

                                                                                       
  Department of Agriculture, Ag Box 2243, 14th and Independence Ave., S.W.,

                                                                                       


                                                                                  11-08
  Washington, DC 20250-2243. Telephone: (202) 401-4002.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.csrees.usda.gov/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Bolted Wood Framing System; Development of Floating Permeable Covers to
  Control Emissions from Livestock Waste Lagoons; Production of Organic Acids
  by Simultaneous Fermentation and Adsorption; Software for Evaluating the
  Impact of Forest Management Plans on Wildlife; Bioprocessing Wheat Midds
  and Screenings to Improve Protein.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (a) The proposing firm must qualify as a small business concern as specified in
  the SBIR solicitation; (b) The proposal must meet the Proposal Content and
  Format requirements as described in subsection 3.3 of the SBIR solicitation; (c)
  Proposals must be limited to one research problem (see subsection 3.1 of the
  SBIR solicitation); (d) The proposed budget must be within the dollar limit
  identified in subsection 1.2 of the SBIR solicitation; (e) The proposed duration
  of Phase I projects should normally not exceed 8 months, except in special,
  justified circumstances, and the duration of Phase II projects should normally
  not exceed 24 months. Where a proposed research project requires more than 8
  months to complete in Phase I, a longer grant period, not to exceed 20 months,
  may be considered. An applicant of a Phase I project with an anticipated
  duration beyond 8 months should specify and justify the length of duration in
  the proposal at the time of its submission to USDA in order for it to be
  considered; (f) Proposals must cover scientific research activities only (see
  subsection 3.1 of the SBIR solicitation); (g) The proposed Phase I research must
  fall within a solicited topic area; (h) A proposal must contain adequate
  scientific/technical information to state clearly the research plan and objectives.
  USDA reserves the right not to submit for review any proposal which it finds to
  have insufficient scientific/technical information; (i) A resubmitted proposal
  must address concerns of the previous review panel. USDA reserves the right not
  to submit for review any proposal found not to be responsive to the previous
  review; and (j) Is it clear that the project director will work a minimum of 51
  percent of his/her time for the small business firm during the period of the grant
  and that the small business firm will conduct a minimum of two-thirds of the
  research effort?
10.215 SUSTAINABLE AGRICULTURE RESEARCH AND
EDUCATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act
  Amendments of 1985, Public Law 99-198, Sections 1461-1471, 7 U.S.C. 4701-
  4710; Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, Section 1621, 7
  U.S.C. 5811.
OBJECTIVES:
  To facilitate and increase scientific investigation and education in order to
  reduce the use of chemical pesticides, fertilizers and toxic materials in
  agricultural production; to improve management of on-farm resources to
  enhance productivity, profitability and competitiveness; to promote crop,
  livestock and enterprise diversification and to facilitate the conduct of research
  projects in order to study agricultural production systems that are located, in
  areas that possess various soil, climatic, and physical characteristics; to study
  farms that have been and continue to be managed using farm production
  practices that optimize the use of on-farm resources and conservation practices;
  to take advantage of the experience and expertise of farmers and ranchers
  through their direct participation and leadership in projects; to transfer practical,
  reliable and timely information to farmers and ranchers concerning sustainable
  practices and systems; and to promote a partnership between farmers, nonprofit
  organizations, agribusiness and public and private research and extension
  institutions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may not be used to pay indirect costs or tuition. Funds may be used for
  transportation, per diem, salaries, office supplies, printing, and other direct costs
  for conducting approved activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Land-grant colleges or universities, other universities, State agricultural
  experiment stations, State cooperative extension services, nonprofit
  organizations, and individuals with demonstrable expertise, or Federal or State
  governmental entities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Land-grant colleges or universities, other universities, State agricultural
  experiment stations, State cooperative extension services, nonprofit
  organizations, and individuals with demonstrable expertise, or Federal or State
                                                                                          33
