Deadlines:                                                                          
  Specific deadline dates are announced in the request for applications or          
  guidelines for each fiscal year.                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  From 90 to 180 days.

Appeals:

  None.

                                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None. However, matching is strongly encouraged.                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Grants are awarded for a 1 to 3 year period and may receive no-cost extensions    
  of time as appropriate up to maximum of 5 years.                                  
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual progress reports. Quarterly financial reports. Final progress and financial
  reports are due within 90 days after project expiration.                          
Audits:                                                                             
  Audits will be conducted in accordance with guidelines established in the         
  revised OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and         
  Non-Profit Organizations," and implemented in 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of         
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations."                         
Records:                                                                            
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that  
  funds are expended for authorized purposes. Grant related records must be         
  retained at least 3 years; records must be retained beyond the 3-year period if   
  litigation is pending or audit findings have not been resolved.                   
Account Identification:                                                             
  12-1500-0-1-352.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $11,616,121; FY 08 est $11,583,000; and FY 09 est not              
  reported.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Teaching grants: $88,470 to $225,000. Average: $171,443. Research grants:         
  $107,574 to $349,793. Average: $242,524.                                          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Example of accomplishments: One university has established a degree program       
  in Biological and Agricultural Systems Engineering; another university has        
  incorporated advanced technology into the degree programs in Environmental        
  Science, Soil Science, Forestry, and Plant Science; one university has            
  established a state-of-the-art Geographic Information Systems (GIS) laboratory;   
  another university has established an interactive video conference classroom to   
  deliver courses to students in rural communities at their local community         
  college; a consortia of universities is preparing students for management         
  positions with private sector industries and government agencies in domestic      
  and global food and fiber distribution.                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  7 CFR Part 3015, USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations                      
  (implementing the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-21 and A-110); 7 CFR          
  Part 3017, Government wide Debarment and Suspensions (Nonprocurement)             
  and Government wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR          
  Part 3018, Restrictions on Lobbying; 7 CFR Part 3019, Uniform Administrative      
  Requirements for Grant sand Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,     
  Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations. 7 CFR Part 3406, 1890              
  Institution Capacity Building Grants Program, Administrative Provisions; 7 CFR    
  3407, Agency Procedures to Implement the National Environment Policy Act of       
  1969; annual solicitation of applications; and Grant Application Kit.             
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  National Program Leader, Higher Education Programs, Cooperative State             
  Research, Education, and Extension Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture;       
  Stop 2251; 1400 Independence Avenue, SW; Washington, DC 20250-2251.               
  Telephone: (202) 720-2186.                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.reeusda.gov.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  10.200, Grants for Agricultural Research, Special Research Grants; 10.203,        
  Payments to Agricultural Experiment Stations Under the Hatch Act; 10.205,         
  Payments to 1890 Land-Grant Colleges and Tuskegee University; 10.207,             
  Animal Health and Disease Research; 10.217, Higher Education Challenge            
  Grants.                                                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS: Lateral Entry: Strategies to Increase                
  the Pool of Teachers Through Online Course Offerings; Enhancing Teachers and      
  Students Hands-On Experience in Agricultural Biotechnology Through Summer         
  Laboratory Workshops; Novel Protocols to Optimize Fertility Rate and Mass         
  Propagation of Transgenic Hypoallergenic Peanuts; Biotic Integrity Index          
  Development for Forested Ecosystems.                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   


                                                                               11-08
  Proposals are evaluated using the following criteria: Potential for Advancing
  Quality of Education; Significance of the Problem; Proposed Approach and
  Cooperative Linkages; Institutional Capability and Capacity Building; Key
  Personnel; and Budget and Cost-Effectiveness.
10.217 HIGHER EDUCATION CHALLENGE GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977,
  Section 1417(b)(1), as amended, Public Law 95-113, 7 U.S.C. 3152.
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase institutional capacities to respond to State, regional, national, or
  international educational needs by strengthening college and university teaching
  programs in the food and agricultural sciences.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used only in targeted areas, e.g., curricula design and materials
  development, faculty preparation and enhancement for teaching, instruction
  delivery systems, scientific instrumentation for teaching, student experiential
  learning, and student recruitment and retention, as cited in the annual program
  announcement in the Federal Register.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All U.S. public and private nonprofit colleges and universities offering a
  baccalaureate or first professional degree in at least one discipline or area of the
  food and agricultural sciences.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All U.S. colleges and universities having a demonstrable capacity to teach the
  food and agricultural sciences.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each first-time recipient must furnish organizational management information
  requested by the funding agency, and each applicant must provide assurances
  specified in the annual solicitation of applications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  All proposal solicitations are published on the Agency's Web site. This program
  is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Formal proposals should be submitted to the Proposal Services Unit, CSREES,
  as outlined in the solicitation of applications. Application procedures are
  contained in the program regulations and required forms are contained in the
  Grant Application Kit. This program is subject to the regulatory provisions of
  USDA, 7 CFR Part 3015, et seq., and all successor regulations.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed and evaluated by CSREES staff members with the
  assistance and advice of peer panels of qualified educators, administrators,
  industrialists, and other appropriate persons who are specialists in the fields
  covered by the proposals. Proposals are supported in order of merit to the extent
  permitted by available funds. Grant payments may be made by the electronic
  transfer system, advance by Treasury check, or reimbursement by Treasury
  check.
Deadlines:
  Specific deadline dates are announced in the request for applications or
  guidelines for each fiscal year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 180 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Dollar-for-dollar matching funds from nonfederal sources is required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for a one to three-year period and may receive no-cost
  extensions as appropriate up to a maximum of five years.
Reports:
  Annual progress reports. Quarterly financial reports. Final progress and
  financial reports are due within 90 days after project expiration.
Audits:
  Audits will be conducted in accordance with guidelines established in the
  revised OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Non-Profit Organizations," and implemented in 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations."
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that
  funds are expended for authorized purposes. Grant related records must be
  retained beyond the three-year period if litigation is pending or audit findings
  have not been resolved.
                                                                                         35
