   (Minority Scholars Program)                                                         
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION                                 
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as       
  amended, Section 1417(b)(5); Food and Agriculture Act of 1977, Title XIV;            
  Public Law 95-113; 91 Stat. 98; 7 U.S.C. 3152.                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To increase the ethnic and cultural diversity of the food and agricultural           
  scientific and professional work force, and to advance the educational               
  achievement of minority Americans, by providing grants to colleges and               
  universities that have a demonstrable capacity to attract, educate, and graduate     
  minority students for careers as agriscience and agribusiness professionals, and     
  have unique capabilities for achieving the objective of full representation of       
  minority groups in the fields of agriculture, natural resources, forestry, veterinary
  medicine, home economics, and disciplines closely allied to the food and             
  agricultural system.                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Competitive annual grants to selected U.S. institutions of higher education          
  provide for a limited number of four-year undergraduate scholarships to support      
  minority students pursuing baccalaureate degrees in the food and agricultural        
  sciences. Institutions also receive an annual cost-of-education allowance for each   
  scholar supported by a grant. The scholars are selected by the institutions and      
  students must apply for the scholarships through procedures established by the       
  individual institutions. No scholarship grants are made directly to students and     
  students cannot apply directly to USDA for scholarships. Scholarship monies          
  may be used for tuition, fees, room, board, and other educational expenses as        
  announced in a Federal Register notice inviting applications for new awards.         
  The institutional cost-of-education allowance may be used by the selected            
  institutions to defray program expenses including, but not limited to, travel and    
  publications costs incurred for student recruitment, and salaries of project         
  personnel.                                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Proposals may be submitted by all U.S. colleges and universities with                
  baccalaureate or higher degree programs in agriculture, natural resources,           
  forestry, veterinary medicine, home economics, and disciplines closely allied to     
  the food and agricultural system, including land-grant colleges and universities,    
  colleges and universities having significant minority enrollments and a              
  demonstrable capacity to carry out the teaching of food and agricultural             
  sciences, and other colleges and universities having a demonstrable capacity to      
  carry out the teaching of food and agricultural sciences.                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Funds awarded under this program are used to support full-time undergraduate         
  students pursing a baccalaureate degree in an area of the food and agricultural      
  sciences or a closely allied field. Persons eligible to receive scholarships under   
  this program are students who either are enrolled or have been accepted as full-     
  time baccalaureate or DVM degree candidates, and who are members of groups           
  traditionally under-represented in food and agricultural scientific and              
  professional fields.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Each prospective grantee institution must furnish the information and assurances     
  specified in the program guidelines and the Federal Register notice inviting         
  applications for new awards. This program is excluded from coverage under            
  OMB Circular No. A-87.                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  All proposal solicitations are published in the Federal Register. This program is    
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Formal proposals should be submitted to the Office of Extramural Programs,           
  CSREES, in accordance with instructions provided in a Federal Register notice        
  inviting applications for new awards. Application guidelines are contained in        
  the CSREES Application Kit. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB         
  Circular No. A- 110 as implemented by 7 CFR Part 3019.                               
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Proposals are reviewed and evaluated by Higher Education Programs staff and          
  other CSREES professional staff members with the assistance and advice of a          
  peer panel of qualified educators, scientists, administrators, and other             
  appropriate persons who are specialists in the fields covered by the proposals.      
  Proposals are supported in order of merit to the extent permitted by available       
  funds.                                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                             
  All deadlines are announced in the Federal Register notice inviting applications     
  for new awards.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 90 to 180 days.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                               


                                                                                  11-08
  None.
Renewals:
  None. Contingent upon appropriations, funds are allocated to provide support
  for undergraduate scholars for 48 months.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  For each scholarship supported under this program, a college or university
  receiving a grant must provide 25 percent of the scholarship funds from their
  own or other non- Federal sources.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for a five-year period, however, scholars are supported for
  four years during that five-year period. One year of the grant period is available
  for student recruitment and for short interruptions of a scholar's educational
  advancement due to personal circumstances or emergencies.
Reports:
  Documentation of scholarship appointments must be submitted by project
  directors upon request of CSREES. An undergraduate scholar exit report must
  be submitted by project directors for each scholar supported by a grant as soon
  as the scholar graduates or is officially terminated from the program. Annual
  and final technical and financial reports must be submitted by the project
  directors to CSREES.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to insure that
  funds are used for the purpose for which the grant was made. Records are
  subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for three-years thereafter.
  Grant related records must be retained at least three years after the end of the
  grant; records must be retained beyond the three year period if litigation is
  pending or audit findings have not been resolved.
Account Identification:
  12-1500-0-1-352.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $932,499; FY 08 est $948,480; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Minimum and maximum amounts of funding per grant, as well as stipend levels
  for scholarships, will be announced each year in the Federal Register notice
  inviting applications for new awards. Awards ranged from $20,000 to $80,000
  with the average award being $52,004.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is anticipated that this program will significantly advance the achievement of
  the objective of full representation of underrepresented groups in the food and
  agricultural sciences workforce of the United States. At one university the
  2+2+2 Project was initiated with the goal to increase the number of Native
  Americans earning baccalaureate degrees in agriculture, biological sciences, and
  family and consumer sciences.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Announcement and Application Kit for the Food and Agricultural Sciences All-
  Americans/Undergraduate Scholars Program; 7 CFR Part 3015, USDA Uniform
  Federal Assistance Regulations; 7 CFR Part 3017, Government wide Department
  and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Government Requirements for Drug-Free
  Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR Part 3018, Restrictions on Lobbying; and 7 CFR
  Part 3019, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements
  with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit
  Organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  National Program Leader, Higher Education Programs, CSREES, Department of
  Agriculture, Stop 2251; 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC
  20250-2251. Telephone: (202) 720-1973.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.reeusda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.210, Food and Agricultural Sciences National Needs Graduate Fellowship
  Grants; 10.216, 1890 Institution Capacity Building Grants; 10.217, Higher
  Education Challenge Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Leadership Experiences and Education in Agriculture and Diversity; Developing
  a Model System to Bridge a Gap in Agricultural Sciences; Providing Incentives
  and Quality Programs to Attract Talented Minorities to Agricultural Sciences.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are evaluated by a peer review panel of educators, scientists,
  representatives from the private sector, and government officials who consider
  such criteria as: the potential for advancing the quality of education; the
                                                                                       37
