     likelihood that the proposed program of undergraduate study will result in the      
     development of outstanding graduates to meet the future needs of the food and       
     agricultural industry; the quality of the chosen academic program, current and      
     future demand for graduates in chosen discipline(s), strength of the curriculum,    
     instructional approaches, strategies for developing critical thinking and problem   
     solving skills and prior success in or potential for graduating scholars.           
     Additional criteria include the quality of the institution's academic advising,     
     career counseling, mentoring, and student support services, as well as the          
     qualifications and roles of key staff assigned to the project, particularly the     
     Project Director and faculty or staff that would have the most frequent or          
     influential contacts with scholars. Finally, the degree to which the proposal       
     describes any innovation, special features of the academic program(s) that will     
     be available especially to scholars or required as a part of their degree           
     program(s), including: an interdisciplinary, multi-disciplinary, or cross-          
     disciplinary approach; a focus on innovative, multi-disciplinary education          
     programs, material, or curricula; a multi-university collaborative approach; an     
     emphasis on a collateral specialization or minor in a related discipline; research  
     opportunities, internships, practicum, experiential learning oppportunities,        
     international research/educational experiences, and related work experience.        
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
10.221 TRIBAL COLLEGES EDUCATION EQUITY GRANTS                                           
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION AND EXTENSION                                    
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of 1994, Public Law 103-382,               
  October 20, 1994, 7 U.S.C. 301, note as amended Public Law 105-185.                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  To enhance educational opportunities at the 30 Tribal Colleges designated as the       
  1994 Land-Grant Institutions by strengthening their teaching programs in the           
  food and agricultural sciences in targeted need areas.                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Formula Grants.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Public Law 103-382 targeted funds to benefit those schools specifically listed as      
  the 1994 Land-Grant Institutions. Funds may be used to support teaching                
  programs in the food and agricultural sciences in the targeted need areas of: (1)      
  Curricula design and instructional materials development; (2) faculty                  
  development and preparation for teaching; (3) instruction delivery systems; (4)        
  student experiential learning; (5) equipment and instrumentation for teaching,         
  and (6) student recruitment and retention.                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  Bay Mills Community College, Blackfeet Community College, Cankdeska                    
  Cikana Community College, Cheyenne River Community College, Dine                       
  Community College, D-Q University, Dull knife Memorial College, Fond Du                
  Lac Community College, Fort Belknap Community College, Fort Berthold                   
  Community College, Fort Peck Community College, LacCourte Orielles Ojibwa              
  Community College, Little Big Horn Community College, Nebraska Indian                  
  Community College, Northwest Indian College, Oglala Lakota College, Salish             
                                                                                         
  Kootenai College, Sinte Gleska University, Sisseton Wahpeton Community

                                                                                         
  College, Sitting Bull College, Stone child Community College, Turtle Mountain

                                                                                         
  Community College, United Tribes Technical College, Southwest Indian

                                                                                         
  Polytechnic Institute, Institute of American Indian Arts, Crown point Institute of

                                                                                         
  Technology, Haskell Indian Nations University, Leech Lake Tribal College,

                                                                                         
  College of the Menominee Nation; and Little Priest Tribal College.

                                                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                         
  The 1994 Institutions--Bay Mills Community College, Black feet Community

                                                                                         
  College, Cankdeska Cikana Community College, Cheyenne River Community

                                                                                         
  College, Dine Community College, D-Q University, Dull knife Memorial

                                                                                         
  College, Fond Du Lac Community College, Fort Belknap Community College,

                                                                                         
  Fort Berthold Community College, Fort Peck Community College, LacCourte

                                                                                         
  Orielles Ojibwa Community College, Little Big Horn Community College,

                                                                                         
  Nebraska Indian Community College, Northwest Indian College, Oglala Lakota

                                                                                         
  College, Salish Kootenai College, Sinte Gleska University, Sisseton Wahpeton

                                                                                         
  Community College, Sitting Bull College, Stone child Community College,

                                                                                         
  Turtle Mountain Community College, United Tribes Technical College,

                                                                                         
  Southwest Indian Polytechnic Institute, Institute of American Indian Arts, Crown

                                                                                         
  point Institute of Technology, Haskell Indian Nations University, Leech Lake

                                                                                         
  Tribal College, College of the Menominee Nation; and Little Priest Tribal

                                                                                         
  College.

                                                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                         
  Each prospective grantee institution must furnish the information and assurances

                                                                                         
  specified in the program guidelines. Guidelines include: 7 CFR Part 1, Subpart

                                                                                         
  A; 7 CFR Part 3; 7 CFR Part 15, Subpart A; 7 CFR Part 3015; 7 CFR Part 3017;

                                                                                         
  7 CFR Part 3018; 7 CFR Part 3019; 7 CFR Part 3052; 29 U.S.C. 794, Section

                                                                                         
  504 and 7 CFR Part 15b; 35 U.S.C. 200 et seq., and 37 CFR Part 401.

                                                                                         
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                         
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required

                                                                                         
  by OMB Circular No. A-110 must be used for this program. This program is



38                                                                                 11-08

  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 because the program does not directly
  affect State and local governments.
Application Procedure:
  Formal application should be submitted to the Office of Extramural Programs,
  CSREES, as outlined in th application package submitted to the 29 institutions.
  Application procedures are contained in the program guidelines and required
  forms are contained in the Grant Application Kit. This program is subject to the
  regulatory provisions of USDA's 7 CFR 3015 et seq. and 7 CFR 3019, and all
  successor regulations.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed and evaluated by USDA staff and by expert educators
  and scientist from other Federal agencies as needed. Grant payment may be
  made by the electronic transfer system or advance by Treasury check.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 45 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  approximately $50,000 to each of the 30 1994 Institutions, no matching
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for a 12- to 24-month period of assistance.
Reports:
  Annual technical and financial progress reports are due within 90 days after the
  end of each 12-month budget period. Final technical and financial reports are
  due within 90 days after the expiration date of the grant. The content of these
  reports will be as required in the "Terms and Conditions" of the grant award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain records three years beyond the life of the grant
  or longer if there are any pending litigation or unresolved audit findings.
  Separate records for each grant must be maintained. Records are subject to
  inspection during the life of the grant and for three years thereafter.
Account Identification:
  12-1500-0-1-352.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $3,342,000; FY 08 est 2,227,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Approximately $50,000 to each eligible institution.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  One Tribal College recently received accreditation of its Bachelor of Science in
  Environmental Sciences program because of the purchase of equipment from
  this program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 301 note; 7 CFR Part 1.1, USDA implementation of Freedom of
  Information Act; 7 CFR Part 3, USDA implementation of OMB Circular No. A-
  129 regarding debt collection; 7 CFR Part 15, Subpart A, USDA implementation
  of Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended; 7 CFR Part 3015,
  USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations; 7 CFR Part 3017, Government
  wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Government wide
  Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR Part 3018, Restrictions
  on Lobbying; 7 CFR Part 3019, USDA implementation of OMB Circular No. A-
  110, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Nonprofit Organizations;
  7 CFR Part 3407, Agency Procedures to Implement the National Environmental
  Policy Act; 7 CFR Part 3052, Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Nonprofit Organizations; 29 U.S.C. 794, section 504, Rehabilitation Act of
  1973, and 7 CFR Part 15b (USDA implementation of statute), prohibiting
  discrimination based upon physical or mental handicap in Federally assisted
  programs; and 35 U.S.C. 200 et seq., Bayh-Dole Act, controlling allocation of
  rights to inventions made by employees of small business firms and domestic
  nonprofit organizations, including universities, in Federally assisted programs
  (implementing regulations are contained in 37 CFR Part 401).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Higher Education Programs, Science and Education Resources Development,
  CSREES, USDA, 800 9th Street, SW, Room 3901 Waterfront Centre,
  Washington, DC 20250-2251. Telephone: (202) 720-1973.
