10.223 HISPANIC SERVING INSTITUTIONS EDUCATION                                        
GRANTS                                                                                
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION                                
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as      
  amended, Section 1455, 7 U.S.C. 3241.                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The objective of this program is to promote and strengthen the ability of           
  Hispanic-Serving Institutions to carry out higher education programs in the food    
  and agricultural sciences. These programs aim to attract outstanding students       
  and produce graduates capable of enhancing the Nation's food and agricultural       
  scientific and professional work force. Grants under this program will be           
  awarded to: (1) support the activities of consortia of Hispanic-Serving             
  Institutions to enhance educational equity for underrepresented students; (2)       
  strengthen institutional educational capacities including libraries, curriculum,    
  faculty, scientific instrumentation, instruction delivery systems, and student      
  recruitment and retention, in order to respond to identified State, regional,       
  national, or international educational needs in the food and agricultural sciences; 
  (3) attract and support undergraduate and graduate students from                    
  underrepresented groups in order to prepare them for careers related to the food,   
  agricultural, and natural resource systems of the United States, beginning with     
  the mentoring of students at the high school level and continuing with the          
  provision of financial support for students through their attainment of a doctoral  
  degree; and (4) facilitate cooperative initiatives between two or more Hispanic-    
  Serving Institutions, or between Hispanic-Serving Institutions and units of State   
  government or the private sector, to maximize the development and use of            
  resources, such as faculty, facilities, and equipment, to improve food and          
  agricultural sciences teaching programs.                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds may be used to support one or more of the following target areas or           
  additional target areas as identified in the annual program announcement:           
  Curricula design; materials development; library resources; faculty preparation     
  and enhancement for teaching; instruction delivery systems; scientific              
  instrumentation for teaching; student experiential learning; and student            
  recruitment and retention.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Hispanic serving institutions are eligible to receive funds under this program.     
  "Hispanic serving institutions" means an institution of higher education which,     
  at the time of application, has an enrollment of undergraduate full-time            
  equivalent students that is at least 25 percent Hispanic students, and which (1)    
  admits as regular students only persons having a certificate of graduation from a   
  school providing secondary education, or the recognized equivalent of such          
  certificate; (2) is a public or other nonprofit institutions accreditted by a       
  nationally recognized accrediting body; and (3) is legally authorized to provide a  
  program of education beyond the secondary level for which a 2-year associate,       
  baccalaureate, or higher degree is awarded. Applications may be submitted by,       
                                                                                      
  and awards may only be made to, public or other non-profit Hispanic-Serving

                                                                                      
  Institutions as defined in the definitions section of this solicitation. For the

                                                                                      
  purposes of this program, the individual branches of a State university system or

                                                                                      
  public system of higher education that are separately accredited as degree

                                                                                      
  granting institutions are treated as separate institutions eligible for awards.

                                                                                      
  Accreditation much be by an agency or association recognized by the Secretary,

                                                                                      
  U.S. Department of Education. Institutions also must be legally authorized to

                                                                                      
  offer at least a two-year program of study creditable toward an associate's or

                                                                                      
  bachelor's degree. Separate branches or campuses of a college or university that

                                                                                      
  are not individually accreditted as degree granting institutions are not treated as

                                                                                      
  separate institutions. To be eligible for competitive consideration for an award

                                                                                      
  under this program, a Hispanic-Serving Institution muc at the time of

                                                                                      
  application: (1) certify that it has an enrollment of undergraduate full-time

                                                                                      
  equivalent students that is at least 25 percent Hispanic students; and (2) provide

                                                                                      
  assurances that not less than 50 percent of the institution's Hispanic students are

                                                                                      
  low-income individuals as defined in the definitions section of this solicitation.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Hispanic serving institutions, as identified above, are eligible to receive funds

                                                                                      
  under this program.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  Each prospective grantee institution must furnish the information and assurances

                                                                                      
  specified in the proposal solicitation and/or the administrative provisions for the

                                                                                      
  program once they are developed. These materials will be available from the

                                                                                      
  CSREES, Office of Extramural programs, at (202) 401-5050. This program is

                                                                                      
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  To assist CSREES in preparing for the review of proposals, institutions planning    
  to submit proposals may be requested to complete Form CSREES-711, "Intent to        
  Submit a Proposal," provided by CSREES in the grant application package.



40                                                                              11-08

  CSREES will determine annually if "Intent to Submit a Proposal" forms will be
  requested. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Formal proposals should be submitted to the CSREES, Office of Extramural
  Programs, in accordance with instructions provided in the program
  announcement. The program announcement will be published in the Federal
  Register.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed and evaluated by CSREES staff with the assistance and
  advice of a peer panel of scientists, educators, representatives from the private
  sector, and representatives from other Federal agencies. Proposals will be
  supported in order of merit to the extent permitted by available funds.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts or
  Headquarters Office section below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 180 to 220 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  CSREES encourages and may require nonfederal matching support under this
  program and will disclose any matching requirements or incentives for providing
  matching funds in its annual program announcement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  From 1 to 3 years.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial reports, annual progress reports, final financial reports, final
  summary progress reports, and other reports as specified in the grant terms and
  conditions.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that
  funds are used for the purpose for which the grant was made. Records are
  subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for 3 years thereafter.
Account Identification:
  12-1500-0-1-352.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $5,686,986; FY 08 est $5,364,480; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $25,000 to $75,000. This is a newly funded program, average not yet
  determined.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  One of our-year instituveloped an academically rigorous internship program in
  the field of agricultural conservation, and then used the program as a recruitment
  tool to attract Hispanic students. A community college developed curriculum
  leading to a college certificate in water technology that addresses a statewide
  need for qualified technicians in the critical fields of water conservation and
  wastewater management.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Applicable regulations will be outlined in the program announcement and/or the
  administrative provisions for the program once they are developed, and in the
  terms and conditions of any resulting grant award. Applicable regulations will
  include but not be limited to: 7 CFR Part 3015, USDA Uniform Administrative
  Regulations; 7 CFR Part 3019, USDA Uniform Administrative Requirements for
  Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and
  Other Nonprofit Organizations; 7 CFR part 3017, Government wide Debarment
  and Suspension and Drug-free Workplace Requirements; 7 CFR part 3018, New
  Restrictions on Lobbying; and 7 CFR part 3052, USDA implementation of
  OMB Circular No. A-133 (revised June 24, 1997) regarding audits of States,
  local governments, and nonprofit organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  USDA, CSREES, Multicultural Alliances, Science and Education Resources
  Development, Room 3240 Waterfront Centre, Washington, DC 20250-2251.
  Telephone: (202) 720-1254.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.reeusda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.217, Higher Education Challenge Grants; 10.220, Higher Education
  Multicultural Scholars Program; 10.210, Food and Agricultural Sciences
