  National Needs Graduate Fellowship Grants; 10.226, Secondary and Two-Year          
  Postsecondary Agriculture Education Challenge Grants.                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  The Agriculture Education Implementation Outreach Project; Developing              
  Freshman's Interest in Agricultural Research and Careers; The Integration of       
  Research Internships into the Undergraduate Life Sciences Curriculum;              
  Enhancement of Genetics Lab Teaching Through Agricultural Biotechnology            
  Research; and Bridges to Careers as Urban Environmentalists.                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Criteria are expected to include the following: (1) The likelihood that the project
  will have a substantial impact upon and advance the quality of higher education    
  in the food and agricultural sciences higher education by strengthening            
  institutional capacities to meet clearly delineated needs; (2) the soundness of the
  proposed approach, including objectives, procedures, timetable, evaluation and     
  dissemination plans, and partnerships and collaborative efforts; (3) the           
  institution's commitment to the project and the adequacy of institutional          
  resources available to carry out the project; (4) the qualifications and the       
  adequacy of the key personnel who will carry out the proposed project; (5) the     
  extent to which the total budget adequately supports the project and is cost       
  effective; and (6) the degree to which the proposal complies with the application  
  guidelines and is of high quality.                                                 
                                                                                     
10.224 FUND FOR RURAL AMERICA-RESEARCH,                                              
                                                                                     
EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION ACTIVITIES                                                  
   (Fund for Rural America)                                                          
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION                               
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, Section 793, 7             
  U.S.C. 2204(f); Public Law 105-185.                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The funding for Rural America (FRA) provides funds for rural development           
  programs and for a competitive grant program to support research, education,       
  and extension activities. CSREES administers the competitive grant program         
  for the research, education, and extension component of the Fund for Rural         
  America. The competitive grant program supports unique, innovative, and high-      
  impact research, education, and extension projects to aid farmers, ranchers, and   
  rural communities to address changes and challenges facing agriculture and rural   
  communities as a result of fundamental reforms to Federal farm programs. The       
  broad range of purposes of these projects are to: increase international           
  competitiveness, efficiency, and farm profitability; reduce economic and health    
  risk; conserve and enhance natural resources; develop new crops, new crop uses,    
  and new agricultural applications of biotechnology; enhance animal agricultural    
  resources; preserve plant and animal germplasm; increase economic                  
  opportunities in farming and rural communities; and expand locally- owned,         
  value-added processing. The information provided under this Catalog entry          
  applies only to the competitive grant program administered by CSREES for           
  research, education, and extension activities supported by the Fund for Rural      
  America.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The CSREES Fund for Rural America competitive grants program will support          
  applied, developmental, and adaptive research; technology transfer; extension      
  and related outreach activities; and education. The program will emphasize         
  biological, physical, and social sciences to address systems-based problems.       
  This requires involvement of affected parties within the system (such as           
  producers, commodity groups, environmental interests, rural communities, and       
  other program beneficiaries); therefore, this program will give priority to        
  projects that are designed and proposed by eligible grant recipients in            
  collaboration with institutions, organizations, and communities of interest.       
  Strong partnerships will be critical to leverage and apply research, education,    
  and extension investments to address user needs and solve community-defined        
  problems. The program is segmented into two initiatives: (1) The Fund Core         
  Initiative, which addresses and links international competitiveness, profitability;
  and efficiency; environmental stewardship; and rural community enhancement;        
  and (2) the Secretary's Initiative to Ensure a Safe, Competitive, Nutritional and  
  Accessible Food System. Examples of potential research, education, and             
  extension activities to be funded under the Fund Core Initiative include, but are  
  not limited to: extension to improve producers' risk management knowledge,         
  skills, and practices; adaptive research to develop new strategies for animal      
  waste management to reduce environmental contaminants in animal waste; and         
  innovations in delivery of education and information in rural areas. As part of    
  the Fund Core Initiative, CSREES also intends to provide funding for FRA           
  Center Grants which are aimed at bringing together individuals, institutions,      
  States, and/or regions in support of research, education, and extension in a       
  collaborative process towards a common goal. Initially, CSREES will award          


                                                                                11-08
  FRA Center Planning Grants to support only the planning stages of FRA
  Centers, and only those organizations successful in receiving a FRA Center
  Planning Grant will be eligible to receive follow-on funding for a FRA Center.
  Proposals for FRA Center Planning Grants and for follow- on FRA Center
  Grants may be solicited in separate announcements. Examples of research,
  education, and extension activities to be funded under the Secretary's Initiative
  to Ensure a Safe, Competitive, Nutritional and Accessible Food System include,
  but are not limited to: assessment of educational needs of small and very small
  meat and poultry processing plants to achieve Hazard Analysis and Critical
  Control Points (HACCP) implementation; research, development and on-farm
  extension education about low-cost production facilities, such as hoop housing
  for swine production, combined with management systems and genetics
  appropriate to these facilities; research to create foods that have increased
  amounts of the beneficial components found in fruits, vegetables and grains; and
  research and extension efforts to develop and implement mechanisms such as
  community-operated canneries or dehydration facilities to extend the "shelf-life"
  of food available through gleaning and food recovery programs. Funds provided
  under the CSREES Fund for Rural America competitive grants program may not
  be used for the construction of a new building or for the acquisition, expansion,
  remodeling, or alteration of an existing building (including site grading and
  improvement and architect fees), or for the purchase of fixed equipment.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Proposals may be submitted by Federal research agencies, national laboratories,
  colleges or universities or research foundations maintained by a college or
  university, or private research organizations. National laboratories include
  Federal laboratories that are government-owned contractor-operated or
  government-owned government operated. If the applicant is a private
  organization, documentation must be submitted that the organization has an
  established and demonstrated capacity to perform research or technology
  transfer. A programmatic decision on the eligibility status of the private
  organization will be made based on the information submitted.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The beneficiaries of this program are expected to be parties affected by the
  fundamental reforms to Federal farm programs. These parties include, but are
  not limited to producers, commodity groups, environmental interests, and rural
  communities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Organizations must furnish the information and assurances specified in the
  program guidelines and/or proposal solicitation with each proposal it submits.
  In addition, if a proposal is recommended for funding and the submitting
  organization has not previously received funding from CSREES, that
  organization will be asked to furnish specific management information relating
  to the organization as part of the pre-award process.
Preapplication Coordination:
  All proposal solicitations are published in the Federal Register. Any
  preapplication requirements will be specified in the program guidelines and/or
  proposal solicitations. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application procedures are outlined in the annual program guidelines and/or
  proposal solicitations.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed and evaluated by CSREES staff members with the
  assistance and advice of peer panels of specialists who are uniquely qualified by
  training and experience in their respective fields to render expert advice on the
  merit of proposals being reviewed. Proposals are recommended for funding in
  order of merit to the extent permitted by available funds. The National
  Agricultural Research, Education and Economics Advisory Board will review
  collective groups of proposals recommended for funding to ensure the relevance
  of the work proposed for funding toward achieving the programmatic goals of
  the Fund for Rural America. Proposals recommended for funding as a results of
  the merit and programmatic relevance evaluations then undergo a financial and
  administrative review. Upon the satisfactory completion of all reviews and
  evaluations, a grant award is issued.
Deadlines:
  All proposal submission deadlines are announced in the program guidelines
  and/or proposal solicitations, which are published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 180 days from proposal submission.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  A grant awarded for applied research that is commodity-specific and that is not
  of national scope must be matched by the grant recipient with equal funds from
  a nonfederal source. The matching requirement may be met through allowable
  costs incurred by the recipient or subrecipient and through third party in-kind
  contributions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
                                                                                      41
