  From 6 months to 4 years.                                                             
Reports:                                                                                
  Annual and final technical and financial reports must be submitted to CSREES          
  in accordance with the terms and conditions of a grant award.                         
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in           
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that      
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal            
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                                
Records:                                                                                
  Grantees must maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that funds are       
  used for the purpose for which the grant was made. Grantees must maintain

  records, which are subject to inspection by CSREES, the cognizant Federal audit

  agency, or the USDA Office of Inspector General, three years beyond the               
  expiration date of a grant or longer if there are any pending litigation or           
  unresolved audit findings.

Account Identification:                                                                 
  12-0012-0-1-999.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported.                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  The range of assistance is $25,000 to $600,000; the average amount for                
  Standard Grants is $271,000; the average amount for Center Planning Grants is         
  $25,000.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  The development of information infrastructure for post-secondary programs that        
  will expand American Indian agricultural and natural resources programs; the          
  development of a center for decentralized rural wastewater treatment; and the         
  demonstration and promotion of the economic development potentials of                 
  farmers' markets and their effects on vendors and host communities.                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  As indicated in the terms and conditions of any resulting grant award, the            
  applicable regulations, guidelines, and literature include, but are not limited to: 7 
  CFR Part 3015 - USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations; 7 CFR Part               
  3017, as amended - USDA Implementation of Government wide Debarment and               
  Suspension (Nonprocurement) and Government wide Requirements for Drug-                
  Free Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR Part 3018 - USDA Implementation of New                 
  Restrictions on lobbying; 7 CFR Part 3019 - USDA Implementation of OMB                
  Circular No. A-110, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and                
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other                
  Nonprofit Organizations; 7 CFR Part 3052 - USDA Implementation of OMB                 
  Circular No. A-133 (revised June 24, 1997) regarding audits of States, local          
  governments, and nonprofit organizations; 7 CFR Part 3407 - CSREES                    
  procedures to implement the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, as             
  amended.                                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  None.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Deputy Administrator, Competitive Research Grants and Awards Management,              
  the Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, Department          
  of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 401-1761.                      
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.reeusda.gov.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  10.200, Grants for Agricultural Research, Special Research Grants; 10.202,            
  Cooperative Forestry Research; 10.203, Payments to Agricultural Experiment            
  Stations Under the Hatch Act; 10.205, Payments to 1890 Land-Grant Colleges            
  and Tuskegee University; 10.206, Grants for Agricultural Research_Competitive         
  Research Grants; 10.207, Animal Health and Disease Research; 10.219,                  
  Biotechnology Risk Assessment Research; 10.215, Sustainable Agriculture               
  Research and Education; 10.500, Cooperative Extension Service.                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Planning for Native American Rural Development; Food Losses from the Farm             
  to the Consumer; Competition for Land on the Urban-Rural Interface; Value-            
  Added Composites from the Rural Southwestern United States.                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Proposals are initially reviewed to ensure that they meet the requirements set        
  forth in the program guidelines/proposal solicitations. Standard Project Grant        
  proposals then undergo technical evaluations using the following criteria: (1)        
  Merit - scientific, technical, or educational merit; well defined problem; clearly    
  defined objectives; appropriateness of approach (including selection of proper        
  approach to address systems, multifaceted, or multidisciplinary problems);            
  demonstrated integration of components (such as research, education, and              
  extension components); degree of feasibility; soundness and effectiveness of          
  management plan; (2) Quality - creativity and innovativeness in addressing            
  problems and issues; selection of most appropriate and qualified individuals to       
  address problem; competence and experience of personnel; effective utilization        


42                                                                                11-08

  of knowledge base in addressing problems; potential to contribute solutions to
  stated problem; identified potential for technology transfer and information
  dissemination; (3) relevance - proposal advances purposes for federally-
  supported research, education, and extension as referenced or stated in the
  solicitation; potential to contribute solutions to priority problems in agriculture;
  identification and involvement of stakeholders; involvement of communities of
  interest and stakeholders in the identification of problems set forth in the
  proposal; partnership with those affected by the outcome. FRA Center Planning
  Grant proposals will be judged using the following criteria: (1) Merits of the
  FRA Center concept; (2) relevance of the proposed FRA Center to the purposes
  of the Fund for Rural America; (3) appropriateness of planning activities in
  assembling a follow-on proposal for funding of the proposed FRA Center; and
  (4) competence of identified participants. Criteria used to judge FRA Center
  Grant proposals will be published in the FRA Center Grant solicitation.
10.225 COMMUNITY FOOD PROJECTS
   (Community Food Project Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Food Stamp Act of 1977, Section 25, as amended; Federal Agriculture
  Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, Section 401, Public Law 104-127.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support the development of community food projects designed to meet the
  food needs of low-income people; increase the self-reliance of communities in
  providing for their own needs; and promote comprehensive responses to local
  food, farm, and nutrition issues.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Community food projects are intended to take a comprehensive approach to
  developing long-term solutions that help to ensure food security in communities
  by linking the food sector to community development, economic opportunity,
  and environmental enhancement. Comprehensive solutions may include
  elements such as: (1) Improved access to high quality, affordable food among
  low-income households; (2) support for local food systems, from urban
  gardening to local farms that provide high quality fresh food, ideally with
  minimal adverse environmental impact; and (3) expanded economic
  opportunities for community residents through local business or other economic
  development, improved employment opportunities, job training, youth
  apprenticeship, school-to-work transition, and the like. Any solution proposed
  must tie into community food needs. Successful applicants must provide
  matching funds, either in cash or in-kind amounting to at least 50 percent of the
  total cost of the project during the term of the grant award.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Proposals may be submitted by private nonprofit entities. Because projects must
  promote comprehensive responses to local food, farm, and nutrition issues,
  applicants are encouraged to seek and create partnership among public, private
  nonprofit and private for-profit organizations or firms. To be further eligible for
  a grant, a private nonprofit applicant must meet three mandatory requirements:
  1. Have experience in the area of: (a) community food work, particularly
  concerning small and medium-sized farms, including the provision of food to
  people in low-income communities and the development of new markets in low-
  income communities for agricultural producers; or (b) job training and business
  development activities in low-income communities; 2. demonstrate competency
  to implement a project, provide fiscal accountability and oversight, collect data,
  and prepare reports and other appropriate documentation; and 3. demonstrate a
  willingness to share information with researchers, practitioners, and other
  interested parties.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Low income people.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Prior to the award of a grant, a prospective grantee organization must furnish
  information about the organization upon request from USDA. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  All proposal solicitations are published in the Federal Register. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Formal proposal submission to the Cooperative State Research, Education, and
  Extension Service in accordance with the Community Food Projects program
  guidelines which will be issued annually.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed and evaluated by CSREES staff members with the
  assistance and advice of peer panels of specialists who are uniquely qualified by
  training and experience in their respective fields to render expert advice on the
  merit of proposals being reviewed. Proposals are supported in order of merit to
