  the extent permitted by available funds. Proposals recommended for funding as       
  a result of the merit review then undergo a financial and administrative review.    
  Upon completion of all reviews, a grant award is issued.                            
Deadlines:                                                                            
  All proposal submission deadlines are announced in the proposal solicitation        
  published in the Federal Register.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  From 90 to 180 days.

                                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  There is a matching requirement of 50 percent Federal and 50 percent nonfederal     
  support of the project during the term of the grant. The nonfederal share may be    
  provided through payment in cash or in-kind contributions in the form of fairly     
  evaluated facilities, equipment, or services. The nonfederal share may be           
  derived from State or local governments, or from private sources.                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  From one to three years.                                                            
Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly financial reports, annual progress reports, and final financial and final 
  summary progress reports.                                                           
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 2,       
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"          
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Grantees must maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that funds are     
  used for the purpose for which the grant was made. All matching contributions       
  must be verifiable in the grantee organization's records. Records are subject to    
  inspection during the life of the grant and for three years thereafter.             
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-3505-0-1-605.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,800,000; FY 08 est $4,800,000; and FY 09 est not reported.        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                      
  $10,000 to $250,000.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  Grants were awarded for projects designed to increase food security in

                                                                                      
  communities by bringing the whole food system together to assess strengths,

                                                                                      
  establish linkages, and create systems that improve the self-reliance of

                                                                                      
  community members over their food needs.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                      
  As set forth in the program guidelines and any resulting grant award, including 7

                                                                                      
  CFR Part 3015 (USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations); 7 CFR Part

                                                                                      
  3017 (Government wide Debarment and Suspension-Nonprocurement, and

                                                                                      
  Government wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace-Grants); 7 CFR Part

                                                                                      
  3018 (New Restrictions on Lobbying); 7 CFR Part 3019 (Uniform

                                                                                      
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of

                                                                                      
  Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Nonprofit Organizations); and 7 CFR

                                                                                      
  Part 3052 (Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations).

                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                      
  Deputy Administrator, Competitive Research Grants and Awards Management,

                                                                                      
  Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension Service, Department of         
  Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 401-1761.                       
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.reeusda.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.572, WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP).                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Family Gardens and Neighborhood Markets-Three New Communities;                      
  Patchwork Family Farms; Value-Added Processing for Community Food                   
  Security; Native American Food Systems Project; Lowell Farming and Food             
  Project.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  1. The applicability and merit of the proposed project in regard to its ability to: 
  Meet the food needs of low-income people in the proposed community for              
  providing for its own food needs; and promote comprehensive responses to local      
  food, farm, and nutrition needs; 2. the capacity to become self-sustaining once     
  Federal funding ends; and 3. organizational and staff qualifications and            
  experience; and 4. additional criteria will be considered relative to the extent the
  proposed project contributes to: (a) developing linkages between two or more        
  sectors of the food system; (b) supporting the development of entrepreneurial       


                                                                                 11-08
  projects; (c) developing innovative linkages between the for-profit and nonprofit
  food sectors; (d) encouraging long-term planning activities and multi-system,
  interagency approaches; and (e) incorporating linkages to one or more ongoing
  USDA themes or initiatives referred to in the program guidelines and/or annual
  proposal solicitation.
10.226 SECONDARY AND TWO-YEAR POSTSECONDARY
AGRICULTURE EDUCATION CHALLENGE GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH, EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION
  SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, Public Law 104-127,
  as amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote excellence in agriscience and agribusiness education, and to
  encourage more young Americans to pursue baccalaureate and higher degrees in
  the food and agricultural sciences.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used only in targeted areas, e.g., curricula design and materials
  development, promotion of teaching competencies, promotion of agriscience and
  agribusiness career information, instruction delivery systems, student
  experiential learning, and educational activities that increase the diversity of
  students pursuing degrees in agriscience and agribusiness.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Public secondary schools or public or private nonprofit junior and community
  colleges.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public secondary schools or public or private nonprofit junior and community
  colleges.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Each first-time recipient must furnish organizational management information
  requested by the funding agency, and each applicant must provide assurances
  specified in the annual solicitation of applications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  All proposals/solicitations are published in the Federal Register. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Formal proposals should be submitted to the Office of Extramural Programs,
  CSREES, as outlined in the solicitation of applications. Application procedures
  are contained in the program regulations and required forms are contained in the
  Grant Application Kit. This program is subject to the regulatory provisions of
  USDA, 7 CFR Part 3015, et seq., and all successor regulations.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed and evaluated by CSREES staff members with the
  assistance and advice of peer panels of qualified educators, administrators,
  industrialists, and other appropriate persons who are specialists in the fields
  covered by the proposals. Proposals are supported in order of merit to the extent
  permitted by available funds. Grant payments may be made by the electronic
  transfer system, advance by Treasury check, or reimbursement by Treasury
  check.
Deadlines:
  All deadlines are announced in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 180 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Dollar-for-dollar matching funds from nonfederal sources is required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are awarded for a one to two-year period and may receive no-cost
  extensions as appropriate up to a maximum of five years.
Reports:
  Annual progress reports. Quarterly financial reports. Final progress reports are
  due within 90 days after project expiration.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that
                                                                                       43
