REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  7 CFR 3015; 7 CFR 3016; 7 CFR 3017; 7 CFR 3018; 7 CFR 3019; and Grant                
  Terms and Conditions.                                                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  CSREES Administrators Office, Cooperative State Research, Education, and             
  Extension Service, Department of Agriculture, Room 305-A, Stop 2201, 1400            
  Independence Avenue, SW., Washington, DC 20250-2201.                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.reeusda.gov.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Current funding is directed solely to the establishment of two diagnostic            
  networks: one for plant diseases and pests and one for animal diseases and pests.    
   Funding is not available under this section for research projects.                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  In FY 2002, a panel of USDA scientists knowledgeable in the Nation's plant and       
  animal disease diagnostic capability, recommended to the Secretary a plan of         
  initiating a comprehensive national network of laboratories for the rapid            
  detection and diagnosis of plant and animal diseases. The institutions selected      
  by the panel for initial inclusion in the network were recommended using the         
  following criteria: (1) Existing scientific capacity; (2) Existing laboratory        
  capacity which could be modified to meet Biosafety Level 3 requirements; (3)         
  Both animal and plant diagnostic capabilities; (4) Geographical location meeting     
  one or more of the following requirements: located in are area with a high risk of   
  disease/pest incursions; located in an area with high concentration of vulnerable    
  agricultural activity; complements or supplements regional Federal laboratory        
  activity or is in an area not effectively served by an existing Federal facility; (5)
  State-of-the-art communication and information technology systems. Must be           
  capable of managing secure communications with other laboratories and central        
  reporting unit; and 6) An effective outreach/extension system.                       
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
10.305 INTERNATIONAL SCIENCE AND EDUCATION                                             
GRANTS                                                                                 
  (INTERNATIONAL SCIENCE AND EDUCATION COMPETITIVE GRANTS                              
  PROGRAM)                                                                             
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, COOPERATIVE STATE RESEARCH,

                                                                                       
  EDUCATION, AND EXTENSION SERVICE (CSREES)

                                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                       
  Section 1459 of the National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching

                                                                                       
  Policy Act of 1977 (NARETPA), as amended 7 U.S.C. 3292b.

                                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                       
  To support projects to: enhance the international content of curricula; ensure that

                                                                                       
  faculty work beyond the U.S. and bring lessons learned back home; promote

                                                                                       
  international research partnerships; enhance the use of application of foreign

                                                                                       
  technologies in the U.S., and strengthen the role that colleges and universities

                                                                                       
  play in maintaining U.S. competitiveness.

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                       
  Project Grants.

                                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                       
  Funded projects will respond to specific needs and strengths of the university or

                                                                                       
  college that will enable it to strengthen the global competence of students,

                                                                                       
  faculty and staff in agriculture and related areas and enhance business

                                                                                       
  performance in international agriculture and related sectors through extension,

                                                                                       
  research and/or teaching programs.

                                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Applications may be submitted by colleges and universities and defined in            
  section 1404 of NARETPA. The terms college and university mean an                    
  educational institution in any State which (1) admits as regular students only

                                                                                       
  persons having a certificate of graduation from a school providing secondary         
  education, or the recognized equivalent of such a certificate; (2) is legally

                                                                                       
  authorized within such State to provide a program of education beyond                
  secondary education; (3) provides an education program for which a bachelor's        
  degree or any other higher degree is awarded; (4) is a public or other nonprofit

                                                                                       
  institution; and (5) is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or  
  association.

                                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Colleges and universities; pubic or other nonprofit institutions.                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None. The program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.

                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                       
  All proposal solicitations are published on the Agency's Web site. This program

                                                                                       
  is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Formal proposals are solicited and should be submitted to the Proposal Services

                                                                                       
                                                                                  11-08
  Unit, Competitive Programs, CSREES, USDA, as outlined in the guidelines
  and/or requests for applications. Application procedures are contained in the
  guidelines or request for applications.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed by a peer panel of qualified scientists and other
  appropriate persons who are specialists in the field covered by the proposal.
  Proposals are funded in order of merit to the extent permitted by available funds.
Deadlines:
  Specific deadline dates are announced on the Agency's Web site and in the
  request for applications or guidelines for each fiscal year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Notice of action taken on proposals will generally be within 90 days of final date
  of submission dateline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Requests for renewal support must be submitted as new proposals at the
  announced deadline, and are considered in equal competition wit other
  applications.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  As announced in the request for applications.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  From one to four years.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial reports. Annual progress reports. Final financial and final
  summary progress reports.
Audits:
  Audits will be conducted in accordance with guidelines established in the
  revised OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Non-Profit Organizations," and implemented in 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations."
Records:
  Grantees shall maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that funds are
  used for authorized purposes. Grant-related records must be retained at least
  three years; records must be retained beyond the three-year period if litigation is
  pending or audit findings have not been resolved.
Account Identification:
  12-1502-0-1-352.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $950,400; FY 08 est 1,910,400; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None. This is a new program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR Part 3015, USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations
  (implementing the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-21 and A-110); 7 CFR
  Part 3017, Government wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and
  Government wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR Part
  3018, Restrictions on Lobbying; 7 CFR Part 3019, Uniform Administrative:
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,
  Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  International Programs, Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension
  Service; USDA; STOP 2203; 1400 Independence Avenue, SW., Washington,
  DC. 20250-2203; telephone: 202-720-3801.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.csrees.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.001, Agricultural Research_Basic and Applied Research; 10.200, Grants for
  Agricultural Research, Special Research Grants; 10.202, Cooperative Forestry
  Research; 10.203, Payments to Agricultural Experiment Stations Under the
  Hatch Act; 10.205, Payments to 1890 Land-Grant Colleges and Tuskegee
  University; 10.207, Animal Health and Disease Research; 10.210, Food and
  Agricultural Sciences National Needs Graduate Fellowship Grants; 10.216, 1890
  Institution Capacity Building Grants; 10.219, Biotechnology Risk Assessment
  Research; 10.226, Secondary and Two-Year Postsecondary Agriculture
  Education Challenge Grants; 10.250, Agricultural and Rural Economic
  Research; 10.652, Forestry Research.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are evaluated based on four major criteria: (1) Overall Approach
  and Collaboration, which includes soundness of proposed approach, procedures,
  integration with existing programs and realistic time table, cooperation among
  the lead institution and other partner organizations and institutional
  commitment; and (2) Potential for Contributing to Internationalization which
  includes the extent of importance or impact of the project, expected products or
  results, an adequate evaluation plan, a dissemination plan, and continuation
                                                                                        51
