  commodities. Compare compatibility of certification standards used in different    
  parts of the world, with the ultimate goal of harmonization and reciprocity;       
  Undertake marketing studies of international consumer demand for U.S.              
  produced organic goods; and Perform Welfare analyses (quantified gains and         
  losses for producers and consumers) of trade policies affecting international      
  competitiveness, including implementation of the National Organic Program,         
  domestic support programs such as the Conservation Security Act, country of        
  origin labeling, GMO labeling, etc. Determine desirable traits for organic         
  commodities. Examine relationships between nutrients in the soil and nutrients     
  in the food grown on that soil, including long-term soil nutrient and crop         
  nutrient profiles under conventional and organic management; Perform               
  comparisons of nutrient levels between organic and conventional crops and          
  relationship, if any, between taste and nutrient profile; Investigate the role of  
  post-harvest handling and treatment in the maintenance of quality in fresh         
  market organic products; and Determine the reasons for consumer preferences        
  for organic goods. Identify marketing and policy constraints on the expansion of   
  organic agriculture. Analyze opportunities and constraints to organic agriculture  
  resulting from provisions of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of         
  2002; Investigate specific barriers to markets, such as scale-based regulations    
  that restrict family farm access to processors and/or markets; Study negative      
  lender perception of organic farming and ways to change this; and Analyze          
  regulatory barriers, such as lack of access to Federal farm programs, and          
  developing solutions to these challenges. Conduct advanced on-farm research        
  and development that emphasizes observation of, experimentation with, and          
  innovation for working organic farms, including research relating to production    
  and marketing and to socioeconomic conditions. (Note: Many topics from other       
  goal areas can be conducted on working farms.) Develop rigorous on-farm            
  systems research designs; and Conduct long-term, interdisciplinary systems         
  research.                                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The Integrated Organic Program is particularly interested in proposed projects     
  that emphasize research and outreach that assist farmers and ranchers with         
  whole farm planning and ecosystem integration. Projects should plan to deliver     
  applied production information to producers. Fieldwork for both program areas      
  must be done on certified organic land or on land in transition to organic         
  certification, as appropriate to project goals and objectives. Refer to the USDA   
  National Organic Program (http://www.ams.usda.gov/nop) for organic                 
  production standards.                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Applications may be submitted by State agricultural experiment stations, all       
  colleges and universities, other research institutions and organizations, Federal  
  agencies, national laboratories, private organizations or corporations, and        
  individuals. For both ORG and OREI, all award recipients may subcontract to        
  organizations not eligible to apply provided such organizations are necessary for  
  the conduct of the project.                                                        
                                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  State agricultural experiment stations, all colleges and universities, other

                                                                                     
  research institutions and organizations, Federal agencies, national laboratories,

                                                                                     
  private organizations or corporations, and individuals.

                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                     
  Curricula vitae for all project directors and sub-contractors.

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                     
  All proposal solicitations are published on the Agency's Web site. This program

                                                                                     
  is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Formal proposals are solicited and should be submitted to the Proposal Services    
  Unit, Competitive Programs, CSREES, USDA, as outlined in the guidelines            
  and/or requests for applications. Application procedures are contained in the      
  guidelines or request for applications.                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Proposals are reviewed by a peer panel of qualified scientists and other

                                                                                     
  appropriate persons who are specialists in the field covered by the proposal.

                                                                                     
  Proposals are funded in order of merit to the extent permitted by available funds.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  applications must be received 60 days after publication of the Request for

                                                                                     
  Applications.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  Notice of action taken on proposals will generally be within 90 days of final date

                                                                                     
  of submission dateline.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

                                                                                     
  Not applicable.

Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  If a grant provides a particular benefit to a specific agricultural commodity, the 
  grant recipient is required to match the USDA funds awarded on a dollar-for-

  dollar basis from non-Federal sources with cash and/or in-kind contributions.      
  CSREES may waive the matching funds requirement for a grant if CSREES



                                                                               11-08 
  determines that: (1) the results of the project, while of particular benefit to a
  specific agricultural commodity, are likely to be applicable to agricultural
  commodities generally; or (2) the project involves a minor commodity, the
  project deals with scientifically important research, and the grant recipient is
  unable to satisfy the matching funds requirement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  Grantees must submit Annual Progress Reports to CSREES that detail progress
  toward achieving goals and objectives of the project and a Final Performance
  Report that includes a brief project impact statement written in lay language.
  These reports should be succinct and no longer than five (5) pages, single-
  spaced, using 12-point font. They should include the following information
  about the project: (1) basic information (i.e., project title, name(s) of PD(s),
  award number, and reporting period); (2) a description of the stakeholder needs
  identified, problems addressed, and results of the project (including
  publications); (3) plans for the upcoming year; and (4) a description of subaward
  activity, including the process used to select recipients. Any students who work
  on a project should be listed in the project reports (i.e., report graduate degrees
  awarded and under graduates trained, as applicable). A budget summary should
  be attached to each report to provide an overview of all monies spent during the
  reporting period. Grantees also are required to submit annual and summary
  progress reports via CSREES. Current Research Information System (CRIS).
  CRIS is an electronic, Web-based inventory system that facilitates both grantee
  submissions of project outcomes and public access to information on Federally-
  funded projects.
Audits:
  Audits will be conducted in accordance with guidelines established in the
  revised OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Non-Profit Organizations," and implemented in 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations."
Records:
  Grantees shall maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that funds are
  used for authorized purposes. Grant-related records must be retained at least
  three years; records must be retained beyond the three-year period if litigation is
  pending or audit findings have not been resolved.
Account Identification:
  12-1502-0-1-352.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,836,820; FY 08 est $2,880,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None. This is a new program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Not applicable.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Plant and Animal Systems, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW; STOP 2220;
  Washington, DC 20250-2220. Telephone: (202) 401-3356.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.csrees.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The evaluation criteria below will be used in reviewing applications submitted in
  response to this RFA: Proposal Relevance (50%): (a) Documented need.
  Application includes documentation substantiating that project is directed to
  current and likely future potential problems/challenges in organic agriculture; (b)
  Stakeholder involvement; (c) Potential for project to contribute to profitable and
  sustainable organic production or marketing systems; (d) Importance of the
  commodity or production system or importance of marketing constraints and
  resulting impacts on the production system; (e) Potential for project to make a
  difference, to have an impact; (f) Potential for project to contribute to long-term
  improvement and sustainability of organic agriculture and (g) Feasibility,
  probability of success. Proposal Quality (50%): (a) Conceptual adequacy.
  Application clearly states objectives which are potentially attainable within
  project time, scope and budget; (b) Design. The application's methodology and
  analytical approach are appropriate to project objectives; (c) Involvement of
  appropriate, relevant expertise; (d) Experience of key project personnel; (e)
  Appropriateness of budget; and (f) Adherence to guidelines.
10.308 RESIDENT INSTRUCTION GRANTS FOR INSULAR
AREA ACTIVITIES
   (RESIDENT INSTRUCTION GRANTS FOR INSULAR AREA ACTIVITIES)
                                                                                        53
