  Specific deadlines dates are announced in the request for applications or          
  guidelines for each fiscal year.                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 30 to 180 days.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.

Renewals:                                                                            
  Proposals for renewal should be submitted at the announced deadline. Renewals      
  are treated in competition with all other pending proposals.                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The recipient of a grant under the Specialty Crop Research Initiative (SCRI)       
  must provide funds or in-kind support from non-Federal sources in an amount        
  that is at least equal to the amount provided by the SCRI. There is no provision   
  for waiver of this requirement. See the request for applications for further       
  information.                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  From one to ten years.                                                             
Reports:

  Grantees are required to submit annual and summary progress reports via            
  CSREES' Current Research Information System (CRIS). CRIS is an electronic,         
  Web-based inventory system that facilitates both grantee submissions of project    
  outcomes and public access to information on Federally-funded projects.            
Audits:                                                                              
  Audits will be conducted in accordance with guidelines established in the          
  revised OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and          
  Nonprofit Organizations," and implemented in 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of           
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations." This program is also      
  subject to audit by the cognizant Federal audit agency and the USDA Office of      
  Inspector General.                                                                 
Records:                                                                             
  Grantees are expected to maintain separate records for each grant to insure that   
  funds are used for the purpose for which the grant was made. Records are           
  subject to inspection during the life of the grant and for three years thereafter. 
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-1502-0-1-352.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $28,440,000 and FY 09 est not available.                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Minimum and maximum amounts of funding per grant are established by the            
  annual program announcement.                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  New program in FY 2008.                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  7 CFR Part 3015, USDA Uniform Federal Assistant Regulations; 7 CFR Part            
  3017, Government wide Debarment and Suspension (Nonprocurement) and

  Government wide Requirements for Drug-Free Workplace (Grants); 7 CFR Part          
  3018, New Restrictions on Lobbying; and 7 CFR Part 3019, Uniform                   
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of         
  Higher Education, Hospitals, and Other Nonprofit Organizations.                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.

Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  National Program Leader; Plant and Animal Systems; Cooperative State               
  Research, Education, and Extension Service, USDA; 1400 Independence                
  Avenue, S.W., STOP 2220, Washington, DC 20250-2220; Telephone: (202)               
  401-3356.                                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.csrees.usda.gov/index.html.                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  New program in FY 2008.                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Within guidelines established for the program as described in the request for      
  applications.                                                                      


                                                                                     
10.350 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE TO COOPERATIVES                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT                                     
  OFAGRICULTURE                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Cooperative Marketing Act of 1926, 7 U.S.C. 451- 457; Agricultural Marketing       
  Act of 1946, 7 U.S.C. 1621-1627.                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To develop and administer research, technical assistance, statistical, and         
  educational programs on finances, organization, management, legal, social, and     
  economic aspects of rural cooperatives, focusing on farmer cooperatives.           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Provision of Specialized Services; Advisory Services and Counseling; Training;     
  Dissemination of Technical Information.                                            


                                                                                11-08
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Services are limited to rural residents, including groups interested in forming
  cooperatives and established rural cooperatives. Publications are available to
  anyone.
ELIGIBILITY REQUIREMENTS:
Applicant Eligibility:
  Farmer and rural cooperatives and groups of rural residents interested in forming
  cooperatives, Native Americans, and rural residents in all U.S. Territories.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiary Eligibility: Farmer/Rancher/Agriculture Producer; Rural residents.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Requests for technical assistance by an established cooperative should come
  from the cooperative board of directors. Requests for assistance in forming a
  cooperative should be made in writing from a steering committee on behalf of
  the interested rural group.
APPLICATION AND AWARD PROCESS:
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. Consultation or assistance is available from the State Office or National
  Office to aid in preparing the request for assistance. Initial e-mail inquiries may
  be sent to Coopinfo@usda.gov. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A formal letter requesting assistance and including a description of the problem
  or nature of request is required. Send letters to either the National Office--Letter
  to the Deputy Administrator for Cooperative Services, Rural Business-
  Cooperative Service (RBS) or State Rural Development Office--Letter to the
  State Director, Rural Development. Requests made to the State Office may be
  forwarded to the National Office. Appropriate addresses may be found at the
  Web site shown later in this program description.
Award Procedure:
  RBS considers all requests.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Requests are usually acted upon within 10 days following receipt at the National
  or State Offices.
Appeals:
  Requests denied by the State Office may be appealed to the National Office.
Renewals:
  If clients need additional assistance following formal closure of Federal
  assistance, a new request must be submitted.
ASSISTANCE CONSIDERATIONS:
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Varies depending on the nature of the request or complexity of problem.
POST ASSISTANCE REQUIREMENTS:
Reports:
  On a periodic basis, RBS will request key persons representing the client to
  evaluate the assistance received.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of Office of Management and Budget (OMB)
  Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003). "Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, "non Federal entities that expend
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Non-Federal entities that
  expend less than $500,000 per year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  None.
FINANCIAL INFORMATION:
Account Identification:
  12-1900-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  Not separately identifiable.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Cooperative Services provides research, technical assistance, education and
  advisory services, and publication materials to rural and farmer cooperatives
  and to groups interested in organizing cooperatives. National Office and State
  Office staffs coordinate activities and responsibilities to best serve clients.
  Assistance to cooperatives was authorized by the Cooperative Marketing Act of
  1926 and is available as part of the rural economic development efforts within
  the USDA.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
                                                                                         55
