  Many publications related to farmer and rural cooperatives are available via the    
  World Wide Web at the indicated Web Site or through USDA.gov.                       
INFORMATION CONTACTS:                                                                 
                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Rural Development, State Office. Telephone numbers should be listed under           
  Government in local telephone books. Visit Web site listed below.                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Deputy Administrator, Cooperative Services, Rural Business-Cooperative              
  Service, U.S. Department of Agriculture, Stop 3250, Washington, DC 20250-           
  3250. Telephone: (202) 720-7558. FAX (202) 720-4641. FTS is not available.          
   Visit Web site listed below.                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rbs/coops/csdir.htm.                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.352, Value-Added Producer Grants; 10.771, Rural Cooperative Development          
  Grants.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  RBS provides technical assistance to help groups organize and establish new         
  cooperatives and conducts advisory assistance to established cooperatives. RBS      
  collects, analyzes and disseminates statistical information on rural cooperatives   
  in the United States and its territories. RBS creates educational materials and     
  conducts workshops about rural cooperatives. RBS conducts specialized applied       
  research about rural and farmer cooperatives. RBS publishes the Rural               
  Cooperatives bimonthly magazine that focuses on rural cooperative events and        
  issues of importance nationally and internationally.                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Requests for assistance must come from or on behalf of residents in rural areas     
  of the United States or its territories.                                            
                                                                                      
10.352 VALUE-ADDED PRODUCER GRANTS                                                    
                                                                                      
     (VAPG)                                                                           
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  AGRICULTURE                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Agriculture Risk Protection Act of 2000, Title VII, Public Law 106-224, as          
  amended; The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, Title VII,             
  Public Law 107-171.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist eligible independent agricultural commodity producers, agriculture        
  producer groups, farmer and rancher cooperatives, and majority-controlled           
  producer-based businesses in developing strategies and business plans to further    
  refine or enhance their products, thereby increasing their value to end users and   
  increasing returns to producers.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The VAPG program offers two types of grants. Planning grants provide funding        
  for the activities necessary to determine the viability of a potential value-added  
  venture, including feasibility studies and business plans. Working capital grants   
  provide funds to pay the day-to-day expenses of the venture associated with         
  marketing a value-added product. An application may be for either a Planning        
  Grant or a Working Capital Grant, but not both.                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible applicants are independent producers, agriculture producer groups,         
  farmer- and rancher-cooperatives, and majority-controlled producer-based            
  business ventures.                                                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Agricultural producers.                                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants must provide a budget supporting the work plan that details all          
  sources and uses of funds during the project period. Applicants are required to     
  verify matching funds, both cash and in-kind, such that USDA can verify all         
  representations. Applicants must certify that matching funds will be available at   
  the time grant funds are received. Matching funds must be spent in advance of       
  grant funds.                                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  An environmental impact statement is not required for this program. This            
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  USDA will solicit applications on a competitive basis by publication of a notice    
  in the Federal Register and through the Grants.gov Federal Web site. Unless         
  otherwise specified, applicants must file an original and one copy of the           
  proposal and all required forms or as otherwise instructed in the annual            
  announcement. An applicant must submit Form SF-424, Form SF-424A, Form              
  SF-424B, and other information as directed. Each proposal must contain the          
  following elements and any additional elements published in the announcement:       


56                                                                              11-08

  (1) Title Page; (2) Table of Contents; (3) Executive Summary, including a clear
  statement whether the application is for a Planning Grant or a Working Capital
  Grant and the amount requested; (4) Eligibility; (5) Proposal Narrative
  including, but not limited to: (i) Project Title; (ii) Information Sheet; (iii) Goals
  of the Project; (iv) Work Plan; (v) Performance Evaluation Criteria; (vi)
  Proposal Evaluation Criteria; (6) Verification of Matching Funds; and (7)
  Certification that matching funds will be available at the same time grant funds
  are anticipated to be spent and that matching funds will be spent in advance of
  grant funding.
Award Procedure:
  The Agency conducts an initial screening of all proposals to determine eligibility
  and completeness to allow for an informed review. Applications will be
  evaluated by experts selected by the Agency. After evaluation and scoring
  according to established criteria, the Administrator of Rural Business
  Cooperative Service reserves the right to award limited additional points: to
  ensure geographic distribution, for innovative projects, or to projects in
  underserved areas. Applications are funded in rank order until all available funds
  have been obligated. Final processing of the awards and monitoring of projects
  are the responsibility of the appropriate Rural Development State Office.
Deadlines:
  Published in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 100 to 150 days after the application is filed with the Rural Development-
  Cooperative Programs National Office.
Appeals:
  Applicants may appeal any adverse decisions to USDA's National Appeals
  Division.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  7 CFR 4284.908 Use of grant and matching funds: (b) Grant funds may be
  used to pay up to 50 percent costs. Applicants will be required to contribute at
  least 50 percent in cash or inkind contributions. The maximum grant amount of
  a planning grant is $100,000 and of a working capital grant is $300,000.
  Matching funds include cash or confirmed funding commitments from
  nonfederal sources. In-kind contributions that conform to the provisions of 7
  CFR 3015.50 and 7 CFR 3019.23, as applicable, can be used as matching funds.
  Examples of in-kind contributions include volunteer services furnished by
  professional and technical personnel, donated supplies and equipment, and
  donated office space. Matching funds must be provided in advance of grant
  funding such that for every dollar of grant advanced not less than an equal
  amount of matching funds shall have been funded prior to submitting the request
  for reimbursement. Matching funds are subject to the same use restrictions as
  grant funds. Funds used for an ineligible purpose will not be considered
  matching funds.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant funds may be disbursed over a period of a year after obligation. No-cost
  extensions may be granted on a limited basis at the discretion of the Agency.
Reports:
  Progress reports must be submitted to the Rural Development State Office as
  specified in the grant agreement. A final report must be submitted to the Rural
  Development State Office within 90 days after the project has been completed.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of States,
  Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities that
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular A-133. Those
  nonfederal entities exempt from Circular A-133 are subject to the audit
  requirements outlined in the Grant Agreement.
Records:
  The Grantee will maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant
  and matching funds are used for authorized purposes. Records required by
  Federal law and regulations will also be maintained by the Rural Development
  State Office and the Rural Development-Cooperative Programs National Office.
Account Identification:
  12-1900-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $21,637,622; FY 08 est $19,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Grants can be awarded for any amount up to $100,000 for Planning Grants and
  up to $300,000 for Working Capital Grants.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Fiscal year 2007 funds were awarded to 157 recipients.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR Parts 1951; 7 CFR 3015; 7 CFR 3019; 7 CFR 4284, Subpart A--General
  Requirements for Cooperative Services Grant Programs, 4284.1 through
  4284.100; and, Subpart J - Value-Added Producer Grants, 4284.901 through
  4284.1000. See the RBS website for additional information. You may also
