  During fiscal year 2005, 818 new units were built and 1,222 units were              
  rehabilitated or developed as multiple family-type housing and on-farm              
  individual-type housing units.                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  7 CFR 3560; Subpart L; RD Instruction 1944-D.                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Consult your local telephone directory for Rural Development Area Office            
  number. If no listing, contact appropriate Rural Development State Office listed    
  in Appendix IV of the Catalog or on the internet at                                 
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/recd_map.html.                                           
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Multi-Family Housing Processing Division, Rural Housing Service, Department         
  of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-1604. Use the            
  same number for FTS.                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.410, Very Low to Moderate Income Housing Loans; 10.415, Rural Rental             
  Housing Loans; 10.427, Rural Rental Assistance Payments.                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Examples of funded projects are the projects sponsored by the Homestead             
  Housing Authority in Homestead, Florida, or The Boulder County Housing              
  Authority, Boulder, Colorado.                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  A clearly defined need must exist to provide housing for domestic farm workers.     
                                                                                      
10.406 FARM OPERATING LOANS                                                           
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended, Subtitle B, Sections 311-317,           
  Public Law 92-419, 7 U.S.C. 1942; Agriculture Act of 1961, Title III, Public        
  Law 87-128.                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To enable operators of not larger than family farms through the extension of        
  credit and supervisory assistance, to make efficient use of their land, labor, and  
  other resources, and to establish and maintain financially viable farming and       
  ranching operations.                                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Loans; Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Loan funds may be used to: (1) Purchase livestock, poultry, fur bearing and         
  other farm animals, fish, and bees; (2) purchase farm equipment; (3) provide        
  operating expenses for farm enterprise; (4) meet family subsistence needs and       
  purchase essential home equipment; (5) refinance secured and unsecured debts        
  subject to certain restrictions; (6) pay property taxes; (7) pay insurance          
  premiums on real estate and personal property; and (8) finance youth projects.      
  Use restrictions are shown under Applicant Eligibility.                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Except for youth loans, individual applicants must: (1) Not have caused a loss to   
  the Agency after April 4, 1996, or received debt forgiveness on more than 3         
  occasions prior to April 4, 1996 to receive a guaranteed loan; (2) have the         
  necessary education and/or farm experience or training (1 year's complete           
  production and marketing cycle within the last 5 years); (3) do not exceed the      
  limitation on the number of years that assistance may be received; (4) possess      
  the legal capacity to incur the obligations of the loan; (5) be unable to obtain    
  sufficient credit elsewhere at reasonable rates, and terms; (6) project the ability 
  to repay the loan; (7) be a citizen or permanent resident of the United States; (8) 
  after the loan is closed, be an owner/tenant operator of a family farm; and (9)     
  comply with the highly erodible land and wetland conservation provisions of         
  Public Law 99-198 of the Food Security Act of 1985 (FSA); Certain                   
  corporations, cooperatives, partnerships and joint operations ("entities")          
  operating family-sized farms are also eligible for farm operating loans. In brief,  
  entity applicants must meet some of the same eligibility requirements as            
  individual applicants. In addition, if members, stockholders or shareholders of     
  the entity are related by blood or marriage, at least one stockholder, shareholder  
  partner or joint operator must operate the family-sized farm. In the case when      
  members are not related by blood or marriage, the majority interest holders in      
  the entity must actually operate the family-sized farm to be eligible. The entity   
  must be authorized to operate a farm in the State in which it is located. Limited   
  resource applicants must meet the above requirements. In addition, they must        
  have a low income and show a need for increased farm income. In the case of         
  limited resource entities, all the partners, joint operators, members, or           
  stockholders must be citizens and the entity must be the owner-operator of the      
  family farm with at least one partner, joint operator, member or stockholder        
  operating the farm. Assistance is authorized for eligible applicants in the 50      
  States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands of the United           
  States, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana              
  Islands, and to the extent the Secretary determines it to be feasible and           


                                                                                 11-08
  appropriate, the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands. To be eligible to obtain
  a direct loan, a borrower must agree to abide by any "borrower training"
  requirements. Applicants/borrowers requesting guaranteed loan assistance must
  meet all lender requirements.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Applicants/borrowers are the direct beneficiaries and must meet the applicant
  eligibility requirements. Families, individuals, and entities who are farmers,
  ranchers or aquaculture operators are the beneficiaries.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must prove that credit is not available elsewhere for the requested
  purposes. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-
  87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None required. However, an informal conference with the local county office
  staff is recommended. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-102 and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants file Form FSA 410-1, Application for Direct Loan Assistance, with
  supporting information, at the local county office of the Farm Service Agency
  for direct loans or Form FSA 1980-25 with the prospective lender for loan
  guarantees. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.
  A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Certification as to eligibility is made by the local county committee (unless that
  responsibility has been delegated to the Agency credit officials) and an approval
  determination is made by a FSA official as to loan feasibility and soundness, and
  whether there is adequate collateral to secure any loan.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The loan approval official approves or disapproves a completed application
  within 60 days on a direct loan application and 30 days on a guaranteed loan
  application.
Appeals:
  Applicants for direct and guaranteed loans, may appeal adverse action taken.
  The applicant is given an opportunity to appeal the decision to the National
  Appeals Division. The applicant may, in the final step of the appeals process,
  request a review by the Director, National Appeals Division, Washington, DC.
  For guaranteed loans, both the lender and the applicant must request the appeal.
Renewals:
  Applicants may reapply at any time. Applicants denied assistance through the
  appeal process must establish that substantial change has occurred, since the
  denial decision.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The selected criteria identify essential elements considered necessary to compare
  the needs of the various States, and to make the best use of available program
  funds. This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Loans are scheduled for repayment over periods up to 7 years, but when
  justified, loans may be consolidated or rescheduled for up to 15 additional years.
   The interest rate for guaranteed loans is negotiated between the lender and
  borrower. If eligible, FSA may provide interest rate assistance on guaranteed
  loans at the rate of 4 percent. The interest rate for direct loans is determined by
  the Secretary of Agriculture.
Reports:
  Various States have USDA certified Agricultural Loan mediation programs,
  which are designed to assist farm borrowers and their creditors in resolving
  financial disputes through the process of mediation. Where a State has such a
  farm credit mediation program, the lender shall participate in accordance with
  the rules of that system. FSA is not bound by any agreements developed in
  mediation or findings of the mediation unless FSA agrees to them in writing.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Records on production, income, expenses during the period of the loan.
Account Identification:
  12-4140-0-3-351; 12-1140-0-1-351.
Obligations:
  (Direct Loans) FY 07 $643,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported. (Unsubsidized Guaranteed Loans) FY 07 $1,025,610,000; FY 08 est
  not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Direct loans up to $200,000; guaranteed loans up to $731,000 (amount adjusted
  annually for inflation); direct average loan size approximately $47,365 and
  guaranteed average loan size approximately $157,339 for fiscal year 2001.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  There were 14,023 direct and 11,444 guaranteed loans made in fiscal year 2001.
  Farm operating loans provide credit to: (1) Establish beginning farmers; (2)
  assist farmers suffering from the price/cost squeeze, which will enable them to
  remain on the farm and refinance secured and unsecured debts; and (3) expand
                                                                                        59
