OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assist public or private nonprofit organizations interested in providing sites  
  for housing; to acquire and develop land in rural areas to be subdivided as        
  adequate building sites and sold on a cost development basis to families eligible  
  for low and very low income loans, cooperatives, and broadly based nonprofit       
  rural rental housing applicants.                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Loans.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  For the purchase and development of adequate sites, including necessary            
  equipment which becomes a permanent part of the development; for water and         
  sewer facilities if not available; payment of necessary engineering, legal fees,   
  and closing costs; for needed landscaping and other necessary facilities related   
  to buildings such as walks, parking areas, and driveways. Restrictions: loan       
  funds may not be used for refinancing of debts, payment of any fee, or             
  commission to any broker, negotiator, or other person for the referral of a        
  prospective applicant or solicitation of a loan; no loan funds will be used to pay 
  operating costs or expenses of adminsitration other than actual cash cost of       
  incidental administrative expenses if funds to pay those expenses are not          
  otherwise available. Repayment of loan is expected within two years.               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  A private or public nonprofit organization that will provide the developed sites   
  to qualified borrowers on a cost of development basis in open country and towns    
  of 10,000 population or less and places up to 25,000 population under certain      
  conditions. Applicants from towns of 10,000 to 25,000 population should check      
  with local RD office to determine if agency can serve them. Assistance is          
  available to eligible applicants in States, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, 
  and the Northern Marianas.                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Sites developed with Section 524 loans must be for housing low and very low

  income families and may be sold to families, nonprofit organizations, public       
  agencies and cooperatives eligible for assistance under any Section of Title V of

  the Housing Act of 1949, or under any other law which provides financial           
                                                                                     
  assistance. Sites developed with Section 523 loans must be for housing to be

                                                                                     
  built by the self-help method.

                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                     
  Applicants must furnish evidence of the following: (1) Market analysis showing

                                                                                     
  need for such services; (2) legal capacity to borrow funds and develop land for

                                                                                     
  sale; (3) a sound budget; and (4) general project description. This program is

                                                                                     
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                     
  Environmental impact assessment and environmental impact statements are

                                                                                     
  required for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.        
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should         
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or 
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in 
  applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. This    
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.                    
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The application will be in the form of a letter to the Rural Development Manager

                                                                                     
  of the Rural Development (RD). Supporting information and costs should be

                                                                                     
  included as needed. This program is excluded from coverage under

                                                                                     
  Departmental Regulations 3015 and 3016, and OMB Circular No. A-110.                
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  After application has been reviewed.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  From 60 to 90 days.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  A uniform procedure whereby an organization which is directly or adversely         
  affected by an administrative decision by Rural Development Rural Housing          
  Programs is found in 7 CFR 3550.4. Applicants may request reconsideration on       
  the basis of pertinent facts concerning his application.                           
Renewals:                                                                            
  Applicants may reapply at any time provided there is evidence of need for the      
  proposed building sites in the locality.                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  RD District office monitors the loan and reports to the State Director should the  
  borrower default in its loan obligations.                                          
Audits:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Records:                                                                             
  Adequate operating records must be maintained by borrower.                         
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-4141-0-3-371; 12-2081-0-1-371.                                                  


62                                                                             11-08

Obligations:
  (524 Site Loans) FY 07 $2,450,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  available. (523 Site Loans) FY 07 $570,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09
  est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not available.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, four loans were made in the 523 program, and one loan was
  made in the 524 program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  RD Instruction 444.8, "Rural Housing Site Loan Policies, Procedures, and
  Authorizations"; 7 CFR 1822.261-1822.278; PA-1131.
Regional or Local Office:
  Consult your local telephone directory for RD District Office number. If no
  listing, get in touch with appropriate RD State office listed in Appendix IV of
  the Catalog or on the internet at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/recd_map.html.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Single-Family Housing Processing Division, Rural Housing Service,
  Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-1474.
  Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.410, Very Low to Moderate Income Housing Loans; 10.415, Rural Rental
  Housing Loans; 10.420, Rural Self-Help Housing Technical Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Caver County Housing and Redevelopment Agency, Chanhassen, Minnesota.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
10.415 RURAL RENTAL HOUSING LOANS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL DEVELOPMENT (RD), DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing Act of 1949, as amended, Sections 515 and 521, Public Law 102-550,
  42 U.S.C. 1485, 1490a.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide economically designed and constructed rental and cooperative
  housing and related facilities suited for rural residents.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Loans; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Loans can be used to construct, or to purchase and substantially rehabilitate
  rental or cooperative housing or to develop manufactured housing projects.
  Housing as a general rule will consist of multi-units with two or more family
  units and any appropriately related facilities. Funds may also be used to provide
  approved recreational and service facilities appropriate for use in connection
  with the housing and to buy and improve the land on which the buildings are to
  be located. Loans may not be made for nursing, special care, or institutional-
  type homes. Grants are in the form of rental assistance for some units within the
  underwritten property.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants may be individuals, cooperatives, nonprofit organizations, State or
  local public agencies, profit corporations, trusts, partnerships, limited
  partnerships, and be unable to finance the housing either with their own
  resources or with credit obtained from private sources. However, applicants
  must be able to assume the obligations of the loan, furnish adequate security,
  and have sufficient income for repayment. They must also have the ability and
  intention of maintaining and operating the housing for purposes for which the
  loan is made. Loans may be made in communities up to 10,000 people in MSA
  areas and some communities up to 20,000 population in non- MSA areas.
  Applicants in towns of 10,000 to 20,000 should check with their local Rural
  Development; office to determine if the agency can serve them. Assistance is
  available to eligible applicants in States, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam,
  American Samoa, the Northern Mariana's, and the Trust Territory of the Pacific
  Islands.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Occupants must be very low-, low- or moderate-income families households,
  elderly, handicapped, or disabled persons.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must furnish evidence of the following: (a) A comprehensive market
  analysis showing the need for such service; (b) a legal capacity to incur the
  obligation and operate the housing; (c) a sound budget; (d) good credit history;
  (e) inability to obtain necessary funds from other sources on terms and
  conditions that would enable the applicants to rent the units for amounts that are
  within payment ability of eligible very low, low-, or moderate-income family,
  households, elderly, handicapped, or disabled occupants. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
