  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  For FY 06 the Section 515 Program will be awarded through a Notice of              
  Funding Availability (NOFA) announced in the Federal Register March 15,            
  2006. The NOFA application period is 60 days from the date of the                  
  announcement. The NOFA deadline is May 14, 2006.                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications will be scored on the following factors (the factors are the same as  
  last year's except for the additional requirement (shown in italics) that has been 
  added to factor 4, the National Office initiative): (1) The presence and extent of 
  leveraged assistance for the units that will serve RHS income-eligible tenants at  
  basic rents comparable to those if RHS provided full financing, computed as a      
  percentage of the RHS total development cost. (0 to 20 points); (2) the units to   
  be developed are in a colonia, tribal land, EZ, EC, or REAP community, or in a     
  place identified in the State Consolidated Plan or State Needs Assessment as a     
  high need community for multifamily housing. ("State" refers to the State          
  Government.) (20 points); (3) the loan request includes donated land meeting the   
  provisions of 7 CFR 1944.215(r)(4). (5 points); and (4) in States where RHS has    
  an on-going formal working relationship, agreement or Memorandum of                
  Understanding (MOU) with the State to provide State resources (State funds,        
  State RA, HOME funds, CDBG funds, or Low-Income Housing Tax Credits) for           
  RHS proposals; or where the State provides preference or points to RHS             
  proposals in awarding such State resources, 20 points will be provided to loan     
  requests that include such State resources in an amount equal to at least 5        
  percent of the total development cost. (National office initiative) (20 points).

Deadlines:                                                                           
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section      
  below.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Within 30 days, States will review and score the applications and submit a list of

  applications in rank and point score order to the National Office. Following the   
  State's submission of applications to the National Office, within 30 days the      
  National Office will rank applications on a nation-wide basis and advise States    
  of the results.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  Applicant may request reconsideration on the basis of pertinent facts concerning   
  the application.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                            
  Applicants may reapply at next Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA).              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program is now a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA). Rural                 
  Development State Directors use needs criteria to establish a list of targeted     
  communities for which applicants may request loan funds. Applications are          
  then rated competitively in order to select recipients.                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Loans are for up to 30 years at an effective 1 percent interest rate, and are      
  amortized over 50 years. A current rate is used for the promissory note but        
  thereafter is used only to determine maximum rent payments. Tenants pay basic      
  rent or 30 percent of adjusted income, whichever is greater. RHS rental            
  assistance subsidy can be used to limit tenant payment to 30 percent of their      
  income. Loans made through contracts entered into on or after December 15,         
  1989 cannot be prepaid.                                                            
Reports:                                                                             
  Monthly progress reports are to be made to the Rural Development Manager,          
  during the first six months of successful operation and each month thereafter      
  until discontinued by the Rural Development Manager. Annual reports required       
  thereafter.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                              
  For borrowers not covered under OMB Circular No. A-133, annual audits              
  conducted in accordance with Government Auditing Standards are required from       
  borrowers with 25 or more units in any project. In accordance with the             
  provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-      
  Profit Organizations," which implement OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised,            
  June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit               
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000  
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit           
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a      
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,   
  except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.                                                     
Records:                                                                             
  Good business records required.                                                    
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-4141-0-3-371; 12-2081-0-1-371.                                                  
Obligations:                                                                         
  (New Construction funds) FY 07 $36,382,000 (for repair/rehab only); FY 08 est      
  not available; and FY 09 est not reported.                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Loan limit per application is $1 million. Total limit per State (reserve and set-  
  aside funds are not included in this cap): $2.5 million.                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             


                                                                               11-08 
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR Part 3560. Handbook 1-Loan Origination, Handbook 2-Asset
  Management, Handbook 3-Project Servicing.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to the NOFA which lists Offices to contact or consult your local telephone
  directory for Rural Development county or district office number. If no listing,
  get in touch with appropriate Rural Development State office listed in Appendix
  IV of the Catalog or on the internet at
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/recd_map.html.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Multi-Family Housing Processing Division, Rural Development,
  Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-
  1604. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.405, Farm Labor Housing Loans and Grants; 10.411, Rural Housing Site
  Loans and Self_Help Housing Land Development Loans; 10.427, Rural Rental
  Assistance Payments.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
10.417 VERY LOW-INCOME HOUSING REPAIR LOANS
AND GRANTS
   (Section 504 Rural Housing Loans and Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL DEVOLOPMENT (RD) RURAL HOUSING PROGRAMS (RHP)
  DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing Act of 1949, Title V, Section 504, as amended, Public Laws 89-117,
  89-754, and 92-310, 42 U.S.C. 1474.
OBJECTIVES:
  Section 504 loans and grants are intended to help very low-income owner-
  occupants in rural areas repair their properties.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Loans; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Loan funds may be used to make general repairs and improvements to properties
  or to remove health and safety hazards. Grant funds may be used only to pay for
  the costs for repairs and improvements that will remove identified health and
  safety hazards or to repair or remodel dwellings to make them accessible for
  houshold members with disabilities. Loans and grants are typically used for
  repair or replacement of heating, plumbing or electrical services, roof or basic
  structure as well as water and waste disposal systems, and weatherization. Loans
  bear an interest rate of one percent and are repaid over a period up to 20 years.
  In addition to the above purpose, loan funds may be used to modernize the
  dwelling. Maximum loan amount cannot exceed a cumulative total of $20,000
  to any eligible person and maximum lifetime grant assistance is $7,500 to any
  eligible person. The house must be located in an eligible rural area which does
  not exceed 10,000 population. Some places with populations between 10,000
  and 25,000 may be eligible if not within a Metropolitan Statistical Area (MSA).
  Assistance is available in States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S.
  Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of Northern
  Mariana's and the Trust Territories of the Pacific Islands.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must own and occupy a home in a rural area; and be a citizen of the
  United States or reside in the United States after having been legally admitted
  for permanent residence or on indefinite parole. Loan recipients must have
  sufficient income to repay the loan. Grant recipients must be 62 years of age or
  older and be unable to repay a loan for that part of the assistance received as a
  grant. Applicant's income may not exceed the very low-income limit set forth in
  RD Instructions.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Applicants must own and occupy a home in a rural area; and be a citizen of the
  United States or reside in the United States after having been legally admitted
  for permanent residence or on indefinite parole. Loan recipients must have
  sufficient income to repay the loan. Grant recipients must be 62 years of age or
  older and be unable to repay a loan for the part of the assistance received as a
  grant. Applicant's income may not exceed the very low-income limit set forth in
  RD Instructions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence of ownership and verification of income and debts. Grant recipients
  must provide evidence of age. This program is excluded from coverage under
  OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
                                                                                      63
