  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102

  and E.O. 12372.                                                                    
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applicants must file an application form at the Rural Development field office     
  serving the county where the dwelling is located. This program is excluded from    
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Delegated to Local or Area Loan Approval Official.                                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 30 to 60 days from time applications are filed if no backlog of applications  
  exists. Applications for assistance far exceed available funding. There is         
  generally a waiting list for funding.                                              
Appeals:                                                                             
  Agency regulations providing customers with the rights for an informal review,     
  mediation or alternative dispute resolution (ADR), or appeal to the National       
  Appeals Division (NAD) are contained in 7 CFR Part 3550. NAD regulations           
  are found at 7 CFR Part 11. Requests for an informal review, mediation and         
  ADR must be received within 30 days from the date of the adverse decision.         
  Requests for an appeal to NAD must be received within 30 days of receipt of the    
  adverse decision.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                            
  Applicants may reapply at any time.                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no matching requirements. This program has no statutory           
  formula. The following basic formula criteria are to allocate program loan funds   
  to various States: (A x .50 + B x .50) x funds available = State basic formula     
  allocation. Where "A" is State's percentage of national number of rural            
  occupied units; and "B" is State's percentage of national number of rural          
  households below 50 percent of area median income. The formula for grants is:      
  (A x 1/3 + B x 1/3 + C x 1/3) x funds available = State basic allocation. Where    
  "C" is State's percentage of national rural population 62 years of age and older.  
  The data source for each of these criteria are based on the latest census data     
  available.                                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  This assistance is available throughout the year by means of an established        
  allocation system. Funds are usually released to borrowers/grantees as a lump      
  sum payment for completed repairs or, as needed, for repairs in progress.          
Reports:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  None.                                                                              
Records:                                                                             
  Borrowers and/or grantees are not required to, but should retain copies of loan or 
  grant-related documents.                                                           
Account Identification:                                                              
  (Loans) 12-4141-0-3-371; 12-2081-0-1-371; (Grants) 12-2064-0-1-604.                
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Loans) FY 07 $36,800,000; FY 08 est $34,409,003; and FY 09 est not                
  available. (Grants) FY 07 $29,700,000; FY 08 est $29,790,000; and FY 09 est        
  not available.                                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Loans Averaged $5,942; Grants Averaged $5,638.                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Not available.                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                     
  7 CFR Part 3550, Direct Single Family Housing Loans and Grants. (no charge);

                                                                                     
  Home Improvement and Repair Loans, PA-1184, no charge.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  Consult your local telephone directory for Rural Development county office

                                                                                     
  number. If no listing, contact your Rural Development State office listed in

                                                                                     
  Appendix IV of the Catalog or visit http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/recd_map.html.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                     
  Director, Single-Family Housing Processing Division, Rural Development -

                                                                                     
  Rural Housing Programs, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.

                                                                                     
  Telephone: (202) 720-1474. Use the same number for FTS.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  10.410, Very Low to Moderate Income Housing Loans.                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
10.420 RURAL SELF-HELP HOUSING TECHNICAL                                             
ASSISTANCE                                                                           
     (Section 523 Technical Assistance)                                              
                                                                                     


64                                                                             11-08

FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL DEVELOPMENT, HOUSING PROGRAMS, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing Act of 1949, as amended, Section 523, Public Laws 89-117 and 89-
  754, 42 U.S.C. 1490c.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide Self-Help Technical Assistance Grants to provide financial
  assistance to qualified nonprofit organizations and public bodies that will aid
  needy very low and low-income individuals and their families to build homes in
  rural areas by the self help method. Any State, political subdivision, private or
  public nonprofit corporation is eligible to apply. Section 523 Grants are used to
  pay salaries, rent, and office expenses of the nonprofit organization. Pre-
  development grants up to $10,000 may be available to qualified organizations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Eligible organizations may use technical assistance funds to hire the personnel to
  carry out a technical assistance program for self-help housing in rural areas; to
  pay necessary and reasonable office and administrative expenses; to purchase or
  rent equipment such as power tools for use by families participating in self-help
  housing construction; and to pay fees for training self-help group members in
  construction techniques or for other professional services needed. Funds will not
  be used to hire personnel to perform any construction work, to buy real estate or
  building materials, or pay any debts, expenses or costs other than previously
  outlined for participating families in self-help projects.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Must be a State or political subdivision, public nonprofit corporation or a private
  nonprofit corporation. Assistance is authorized for eligible applicants in the
  United States, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Guam, and the Northern Marianas.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Very low and low-income rural families, usually in groups of 6 to 10 families.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must furnish evidence of the need for such services, have legal
  capacity to incur the obligation and operate the proposed project, and be unable
  to obtain the necessary funds from other sources. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The State Director must request funding approval from the National office of all
  requests. A technical review and analysis must be completed by the Regional
  Technical and Management Assistance (T&MA) contractor on all
  predevelopment, new, and existing (refunding) grant applications. In addition to
  the T&MA contractor's review, Agency personnel must also review and evaluate
  the feasibility of the grantee's request and make the appropriate
  recommendation. The level of National office review will be based on the
  amount of the grant. For grant requests under $300,000 the State Director
  should submit: (1) the analysis from the T&MA contractor; (2) statement
  indicating whether or not the grant recipient will be working in Empowerment
  Zones (EZ), Enterprise Communities (EC) or Rural Economic Area Partnerships
  (REAP) and census tract designation of area; (3) the State Director's
  recommendation; (4) a copy of the conditions to be met; (5) a copy of From RD
  1940-1, "Request for Obligation of Funds;" and (6) if the grantee is a marginal
  performer, specific information showing actions to correct performance. For
  grant requests that equal or exceed $300,000, the complete application docket
  along with a statement indicating whether the grant recipient will be working in
  an EZ, EC, REAP or tribal community, must be sent to the National office. $34
  million has been appropriated for section 523 Mutual and Self-Help Technical
  Assistance grants. Of these funds, $1 million is earmarked for EZ, EC or REAP
  communities. All section 523 grants will be obligated in the National office.
  This will enable the National office staff to monitor fund utilization. For section
  523 mutual and self-help site loans and section 524 RH site loans, State
  Directors are responsible for developing an outreach program to increase public
  awareness of these programs. The State Director must request funding authority
  from the National office prior to obligating loan funds. Preapplication
  Coordination: The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency
  and required by Departmental Regulations 3015 and 3016 must be used for this
  program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Form SF-424 is submitted to the Field office of the Rural Development (RD) ,
  including information attached to Part IV, fully documenting the applicant's
  experience, need for the grant and the proposed amount needed. Attachments
  relating to the size of the proposed project, estimated cost, budget and need are
  also required. This program is subject to provisions of Departmental Regulation
  3015 and 3016.
