Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Award is made by the National office.                                             
Deadlines:                                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  From 60 to 190 days from the time discussion begins.                              
Appeals:                                                                            
  Agency regulations providing customers with the rights for an informal review,    
  mediation or alternative dispute resolution (ADR), or appeal to the National      
  Appeals Division (NAD) are contained in 7 CFR Part 3550. NAD regulations          
  are found at 7 CFR Part 11. Requests for an informal review, mediation and        
  ADR must be received within 30 days from the date of the adverse decision.        
  Requests for an appeal to NAD must be received within 30 days of receipt of the   
  adverse decision.                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                           
  Applicants may reapply at any time, if needed to help low- income families build  
  homes in rural areas by the mutual self-help method is clearly evidenced.         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Grants are typically for a 2-year period, however, other time periods may be      
  authorized if appropriate. Applications for assistance far exceed available       
  funding. There is generally a waiting list for funding.                           
Reports:                                                                            
  Quarterly progress reports are to be made to the RD-Housing Programs District     
  Office.                                                                           
Audits:                                                                             
  Annual audits should be made as part of the recipient's systems of financial      
  management and internal control to meet terms and conditions of grants and        
  other agreements.                                                                 
Records:                                                                            
  Adequate operating records must be maintained by Grantee.                         
Account Identification:                                                             
  12-2006-0-1-604.

                                                                                    
Obligations:

                                                                                    
  (Grants) FY 07 $30,550,000; FY 08 est $32,355,000; and FY 09 est not

                                                                                    
  available.

                                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                    
  Not available.

                                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                    
  Not available.

REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  7 CFR Subpart I of Part 1944; Chapter XVIII; RD Instruction 1944-I, "Self-Help    
  Technical Assistance Grants"; (PA 1254) (no charge).                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Consult your local telephone directory for Rural Development District Office      
  number. If no listing, contact the appropriate Rural Development State office     
                                                                                    
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or see our web site at

                                                                                    
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                    
  Director, Single-Family Housing Processing Division, Rural Development,

                                                                                    
  Housing Programs, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.

                                                                                    
  Telephone: (202) 720-1474.

                                                                                    
Web Site Address:

                                                                                    
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.

RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  10.410, Very Low to Moderate Income Housing Loans; 10.411, Rural Housing          
  Site Loans and Self_Help Housing Land Development Loans.                          
                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                    
  An example of a funded project is Self-Help Enterprises, Visalia, California and

                                                                                    
  the City of Casa Grande, Casa Grande, and Arizona.

                                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  The criteria for selecting proposals are the evidence of a clearly defined need in
  an area for mutual self-help housing and the families in the area cannot afford or
                                                                                    
  obtain a modest house by customary methods, and the applicant possesses the

                                                                                    
  expertise to provide the technical assistance (TA) required.

                                                                                    
                                                                                    
10.421 INDIAN TRIBES AND TRIBAL CORPORATION                                         
LOANS                                                                               
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Loans to Indian Tribes and Tribal Corporations Act, Section 488-492, Public       
  Law 91-229.                                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To enable federally recognized Indian tribes and tribal corporations to acquire   
  land within tribal reservations and Alaskan communities.                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Direct Loans.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                               11-08
  Loan funds may be used to acquire land and interest therein for the benefit and
  use of the tribe or its members for purposes such as rounding out farming and
  ranching units or elimination of fractional heir ships. Funds may also be used for
  incidental costs connected with land purchase such as appraisals, title clearance,
  legal services, land surveys, and loan closing. Loan funds may be used to
  refinance non-United States Department of Agriculture preexisting debts that
  applicant incurred to purchase land subject to certain conditions. Loan funds
  cannot be used for any improvement or development purposes, acquisition or
  repair of buildings or personal property, payment of operating costs, payment of
  finder's fees, or similar costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Limited to any Indian tribe recognized by the Secretary of the Interior or tribal
  corporation established pursuant to the Indian Reorganization Act or community
  in Alaska incorporated by the Secretary of Interior pursuant to the Indian
  Reorganization Act which does not have adequate uncommitted funds to acquire
  lands within the tribe's reservation or in a community in Alaska. The tribe must
  be unable to obtain sufficient credit elsewhere at reasonable rates and terms and
  must be able to show reasonable prospects of repaying the loan as determined by
  an acceptable repayment plan and a satisfactory management plan for the land
  being acquired.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  American Indian Tribe or tribal corporation recognized by the Secretary of the
  Interior, or a community in Alaska incorporated by the Secretary of the Interior.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Credentials provided by the Secretary of the Interior. Feasibility documentation
  must be supplied by the applicant. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The Secretary of the Interior must determine that lands to be acquired lie within
  a tribal reservation or community in Alaska incorporated by the Secretary of the
  Interior pursuant to the Indian Reorganization Act. The standard application
  forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-
  102 must be used for this program. An environmental assessment is required for
  this program. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application Form FSA 770-2620 will be submitted to the State FSA offices.
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  After an application has been recommended by Agency loan specialist, the State
  Executive Director has final approval authority on loans up to $500,000. Loans
  in excess of that amount require the National office approval. Following
  approval, payment authorization is forwarded to the National finance office
  which issues the check.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 30 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated and
  appropriate appeal rights given. The applicant may reapply at any time that the
  reasons for rejection are corrected. If not satisfied with the State Executive
  Director's action, the applicant is given an opportunity to appeal the decision to
  the National Appeals Division decision making process. The applicant may in
  the final step of the appeals process, ask for a review of the decision by the
  Director of the National Appeals Division, Washington, DC.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Program size and requirement does not permit equitable distribution on a Tribe
  or State basis. The loan assistance may equal the project cost if the applicant is
  financially unable to contribute a part of the cost. This program has no statutory
  formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Loans may be scheduled over a period not to exceed 40 years.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, which implement OMB
  Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that
  expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.
Records:
  Records and accounts are required to reflect the operations of the project.
Account Identification:
  12-4140-0-3-351; 12-1140-0-1-351.
Obligations:
  (Loans) FY 07 $3,960,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
                                                                                       65
