  RURAL DEVELOPMENT (RD), DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Housing Act of 1949, as amended, Section 533, Public Law 98-181, 42 U.S.C.          
  1480.                                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist very low- and low-income rural residents individual homeowners,           
  rental property owners (single/multi-unit) or by providing the consumer             
  cooperative housing projects (co-ops) the necessary assistance to repair or         
  rehabilitate their dwellings. These objectives will be accomplished through the     
  establishment of repair/rehabilitation, projects run by eligible applicants. This   
  program is intended to make use of and leverage any other available housing         
  programs which provide resources to very low and low-income rural residents to      
  bring their dwellings up to development standards.                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Organizations may use less than 20 percent of the Housing Preservation Grant        
  funds for program administration purposes, such as to hire the personnel to carry   
  out a project of housing rehabilitation to meet the needs of very low and low-      
  income persons in rural areas; to pay necessary and reasonable office and           
  administrative expenses; and to pay reasonable fees for training of organization    
  personnel. Eighty percent or more of funds must be used for loans, grants or        
  other assistance on individual homes, homeowners, rental properties or co-ops to    
  pay any part of the cost for repair or rehabilitation of structures; funds may not  
  be used to hire personnel to perform construction or to pay any debts, expenses     
  or costs other than previously outlined and approved in the project application.    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Must be a State or political subdivision, public nonprofit corporation, Indian      
  tribal corporations, authorized to receive and administer housing preservation      
  grants, private nonprofit corporation, or a consortium of such eligible entities.   
  Applicants must provide assistance under this program to persons residing in        
  open country and communities with a population of 10,000 that are rural in          
  character and places with a population of up to 20,000 under certain conditions.    
  Applicants in towns with population of 10,000 to 20,000 should check with           
  local Rural Development office to determine if the Agency can serve them.           
  Assistance is authorized for eligible applicants in the United States, Puerto Rico, 
  Virgin Islands, and the territories and possessions of the United States.           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Very low and low-income rural individuals and families who are homeowners           
  and need resources to bring their housing up to code standards, rental property     
  owners, or co-ops.                                                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants must have the financial, legal, administrative, and operational          
  capacity to carry out the objectives of the program by having experience in rural   
  housing rehabilitation. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB             
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments.                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required      
  by 7 CFR parts 3015 or 3016 must be used for this program. Preapplications on       
  SF 424.1 "Application for Federal Assistance (for non-construction)," must be       
  submitted to Rural Development. Applicants are encouraged to consult with the       
  Rural Development District or State office prior to submission of a                 
  Preapplication and to receive assistance in the preparation of their                
  preapplication. An environmental impact assessment is required for this             
  program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                    
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult         
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying   
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  In FY 06, the section 533 program will be awarded through a Notice of Funding       
  Availability (NOFA) announced in the Federal Register March 15, 2006. The           
  NOFA application period is 60 days from the date of the announcement. The           
  NOFA deadline is May 14, 2006.                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Award is made by the Rural Development State Director.                              
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Dates governing the acceptance, review, and selection of project preapplication     
  will be published annually in the Federal Register. Applicants may also contact     
  the Rural Development State Office for deadlines.                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Notice of action taken on preapplications will be generally within 60 days of       
  final date of acceptance of preapplication.                                         
Appeals:                                                                              
  Applicants may request reconsideration on the basis of pertinent facts              
  concerning their application within 30 days of notification of action taken on the  
  preapplication or application.                                                      
Renewals:                                                                             
  Applicants may apply for an additional HPG grant when they have achieved or         
  nearly achieved the goals established for the previous or existing grant. The       


                                                                                 11-08
  grantee must file a preapplication for the current fiscal year which will be
  processed and compared under the project selection criteria to others submitted
  at that time.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  See 7 CFR 1940-L, "Methodology and Formulas for Allocation of Loan and
  Grant Funds." This program has a statutory formula consisting of the following
  factors and weights: State's percentage of national rural population, 33 1/3
  percent; State's percentage of national number of rural occupied substandard
  units, 33 1/3 percent; and State's percentage of national rural families with
  incomes below the poverty level, 33 1/3 percent. Data source for each factor is
  based on the latest census data available. The percentage for each factor is
  multiplied by the weight assigned and summed to arrive at a State factor. The
  State factor is multiplied by the total amount available for allocation nationally,
  minus the national office reserve (approximately 5 percent). This program has no
  cost-sharing arrangement or matching requirements although priorities under the
  project selection criteria include extent of leveraging of funds to complement the
  housing preservation grant.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are made for a 12 month period. Agency consent is required for grants
  that exceed 1 year.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial and project performance reports are to be made to the Rural
  Development office receiving the grant.
Audits:
  Periodic audits should be made as part of the recipient's system of financial
  management and internal control to meet terms and conditions of grants and
  other agreements. In accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052,
  "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," which
  implement OMB Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States,
  Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that
  receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program- specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.
Records:
  Grantees shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant funds
  are used for authorized purposes.
Account Identification:
  12-2070-0-1-604.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $9,900,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not available.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 1944-N, Section 1944.651 through 1944.700, RD Instruction 1944-N.
  Regulations are available from Rural Development State offices.
Regional or Local Office:
  Consult your local telephone directory for your local Rural Development Area
  Office number. If no listing, contact the appropriate Rural Development State
  Office listed in Appexdix IV of the Catalog or on the internet at
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/recd_map.html.
Headquarters Office:
  Multi-Family Housing Processing Division, Rural Development, Department of
  Agriculture, Washington DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-1604. Use the same
  number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.410, Very Low to Moderate Income Housing Loans; 10.411, Rural Housing
  Site Loans and Self_Help Housing Land Development Loans; 10.417, Very
  Low-Income Housing Repair Loans and Grants; 10.420, Rural Self-Help
  Housing Technical Assistance; 14.108, Rehabilitation Mortgage Insurance;
  14.121, Mortgage Insurance_Homes in Outlying Areas.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funded projects generally provide financial assistance to very low-income
  persons for bringing their dwellings up to local code standards through an HPG
  grant combined with other Federal funding, such as HUD's community
  development block grants or HHS's weatherization program. Other variations
  funded includes using HPG funds to establish a revolving loan fund that
  provides homeowners a long term, interest subsidized loan; "lending
  homeowners the money and "forgiving" 20 percent per year until the loan
  becomes a grant after five years; using the grantee's own employees to perform
  the rehabilitation work to reduce the costs; and, in a few instances, leveraging
  State resources for repair loans or grants. In most cases, grantees that are
  currently active in home repair and rehabilitation were selected and were able to
  leverage their existing programs with the new HPG funds.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Projects must provide a feasible repair rehabilitation program and serve areas
                                                                                        67
