  received by Oklahoma; a $117,810 grant was received by South Dakota; a             
  $278,530 grant was received by Texas; a $21,430 grant was received by Utah; a      
  $42,220 grant was received by Washington; a $208,360 grant was received by         
  Wisconsin; and a $40,690 grant was received by Wyoming.                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Certification by the Administrator, FSA, that mediation program meets the          
  requirements of Section 501 (c) of Title V of the Agricultural Credit Act (Public  
  Law 100-233) as amended; application meets requirements of FSA regulations         
  to be implemented.                                                                 
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
10.437 INTEREST ASSISTANCE PROGRAM                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                     
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended.                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide a 4 percent subsidy to farmers and ranchers, who do not qualify for     
  standard commercial credit. Guaranteed loans are serviced by a lender who has      
  entered into a Lenders Agreement with the agency.                                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The Interest Assistance Program can be provided for Operating Loans (OL).          
  Under the interest assistance program, FSA will subsidize 4 percent of the         
  interest rate on loans to qualifying borrowers. Operating Loans (OL) may be

  used: (1) to finance livestock or farm equipment; (2) to pay annual operating      
  expenses or family living expenses; or (3) to refinance debts under certain

  conditions. Lines of Credit (LOC) are operating loans for annual operating loan

                                                                                     
  purposes. Funds may be advanced and repaid (revolve) throughout the year. The      
  total loan limit for a guaranteed loan cannot exceed $731,000.                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Individuals, partnerships, or joint operations, legal resident aliens, corporations
  and cooperatives that meet the eligibility requirements for a guaranteed loan and  
  are able to project the required cash flow margins with the aid of interest        
  assistance.                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  This program aids both the borrower and lender by providing 4 percent of the       
  interest costs and receiving up to a 90 percent guarantee on the loan.             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB              
  Circular No. A-102.                                                                
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The lender must submit to the agency on behalf of the applicant, all required      
  forms to the FSA county office, where the proposed operation will be located.      
  Contact the lender in your area for completion of all required forms. Additional   
  information can be obtained by contacting the FSA office in your local area.       
  Farm Service Agency offices are listed in the telephone directory under U.S.       
  Government, Department of Agriculture.                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  One to 30 days.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  At the time of any rejection FSA will notify the lender and loan applicant of      
  appeal rights and procedures.                                                      
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Interest Assistance agreements will be granted for a term not to exceed 10 years   
  from the date the first agreement was signed.                                      
Reports:                                                                             
  The lender is required to file Form FSA 1980-24 annually. This form will reflect   
  current loan information, request a claim payment and establish the amount of      
  interest assistance for the next year.                                             
Audits:                                                                              
  FSA will review Form FSA 1980-24 annually. In addition, FSA will require a         
  loan activity summary and calculation of interest charges.                         
Records:                                                                             
  The type of records required will be on a case-by-case basis.                      
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-4140-0-3-351; 12-1140-0-1-351.                                                  
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Subsidized Guaranteed Loans) FY 07 $272,250,000; FY 08 est not available;         
  and FY 09 est not reported.



                                                                                11-08
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $1 to $731,000. Average: $158,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations published at 54 FR 1534, codified in 7 CFR Part 762 and FSA
  Handbook 2 FLP.
Regional or Local Office:
  Farm Service Agency State Offices can inform applicants of county office
  locations where applicants may apply for assistance. FSA State Office locations
  are listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog. Or visit the website at:
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov. FSA has more than 2,500 county offices serving
  every rural county in the United States.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, Director, Loan Making
  Division, Ag Box 0522, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-1632.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Each loan application will be judged on its own merit and processed in
  chronological order.
10.438 SECTION 538 RURAL RENTAL HOUSING
GUARANTEED LOANS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL DEVELOPMENT, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing Act of 1949, as amended, Section 538, Public Law 106-569, 42 U.S.C.
  1490p-2.
OBJECTIVES:
  This program has been designed to increase the supply of affordable multifamily
  housing in rural areas through partnerships between Rural Development and
  major lending sources, as well as State and local housing finance agencies and
  bond insurers. The program provides Federal credit enhancement to encourage
  private and public lenders to make new loans for affordable rental properties that
  meet program standards.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The guarantee will encourage the construction of new rural rental housing and
  appropriate related facilities. Housing as a general rule will consist of projects
  with five or more dwellings. The guarantee may not be made for nursing,
  special care or industrial type housing.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The applicant in this program is the lender. The lender must be approved and
  currently active with Fannie Mae, Freddie Mac, HUD/FHA insurance programs,
  Ginnie Mae or be a State or local Housing Finance Agency. A member of the
  Federal Home Loan Bank System or other lender may be able to participate if
  they can demonstrate satisfactory experience with multifamily lending.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Occupants must be families or persons with income not in excess of 115 percent
  of the Median Income at the time of initial occupancy.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Eligible borrowers include: individual partnerships; profit and not-for-profit
  corporations; limited liability companies; trusts; State and local agencies; and
  Indian Tribes.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The lender originates the loan and performs the necessary underwriting and
  provides the documentation required by the RHS and request for guarantee to
  the RHS for consideration.
Award Procedure:
  Rural Development will review all the applications for compliance with the
  program requirements and issue the Conditional Commitment of Guarantee with
  conditions. Once the conditions are met the final Contract of Guarantee will be
  issued.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section
  below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The review and award process is established at 60 days from the end of the
  NOFA.
Appeals:
  Applicants may appeal adverse decisions in accordance with 7 CFR Part 11,
                                                                                       69
