  National Appeals Division.                                                           
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Reports:                                                                               
  Per program requirements.                                                            
Audits:                                                                                
  As required by the lender and program regulations..                                  
Records:                                                                               
  Good business records and any records required by the lender.                        
Account Identification:

                                                                                       
  12-0137-0-1-604.

                                                                                       
Obligations:

                                                                                       
  (Loans) FY 07 $197,997,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not

                                                                                       
  reported.

                                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  Not applicable.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Not available.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  The final rule, 7 CFR 3565, was effective January 19, 2005. Also available in        
  the Guaranteed Rural Rental Housing Program Origination and Servicing                
  Handbook.                                                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Consult your local telephone directory for Rural Development field office            
  number. If no listing, get in touch with appropriate Rural Development State         
  office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog or on the internet at                    
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Director, Multi-Family Housing Processing Division, Rural Development,               
  Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone (202) 720-1604.           
   Use the same number for FTS.                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http.//www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Provided in the NOFA.                                                                
                                                                                       
10.441 TECHNICAL AND SUPERVISORY ASSISTANCE                                            
                                                                                       
GRANTS                                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  RURAL HOUSING SERVICE (RHS), DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Housing Act of 1949, Section 525(a), 42 U.S.C. 1490(e)(a).                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To assist low-income rural families in obtaining adequate housing to meet their      
  family's needs and/or to provide the necessary guidance to promote their             
  continued occupancy of already adequate housing. These objectives will be            
  accomplished through the establishment or support of housing delivery and            
  counseling projects run by eligible applicants.                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grant purposes: Grant funds are to be used for a housing delivery system and         
  counseling program to include a comprehensive program of technical and               
  supervisory assistance as set forth in the grant agreement and any other special     
  conditions as required by RHS. Uses of grant funds may include, but are not          
  limited to: (a) The development and implementation of a program of technical         
  and supervisory assistance as defined in RD Instruction 1944-K, 1944.506(h)          
  and (i); (b) payment of reasonable salaries of professional, technical, and clerical 
  staff actively assisting in the delivery of the TSA project; (c) payment of          
  necessary and reasonable office expenses such as office supplies and office          
  rental, office utilities, telephone services, and office equipment rental; (d)       
  payment of necessary and reasonable administrative costs such as workers'            
  compensation, liability insurance, audit reports, travel to and attendance at RD     
  approved training sessions, and the employer's share of Social Security and          
  health benefits. Payments to private retirement funds are prohibited unless prior    
  written authorization is obtained from the Administrator; (e) payment of             
  reasonable fees for necessary training of grantee personnel. This may include        
  the cost of travel and per diem to attend regional training sessions when            
  authorized by the State Director; and (f) other reasonable travel and                
  miscellaneous expenses necessary to accomplish the objectives of the specific        
  TSA grant which were anticipated in the individual TSA grant proposal and            
  which were included as eligible expenses at the time of grant approval. Ineligible   
70                                                                               11-08

  activities: Grant funds may not be used for: (1) Acquisition construction,
  repair, or rehabilitation of structures or acquisition of land, vehicles, or
  equipment; (2) replacement of or substitution for any financial support which
  would be available from any other source; (3) duplication of current services in
  conflict with the requirements of RD Instruction 1944-k, 1944.514(c); (4)
  hiring personnel to perform construction; (5) buying property of any kind from
  families receiving technical or supervisory assistance from the grantee under the
  terms of the TSA grant; (6) paying for or reimbursing the grantee for any
  expenses or debts incurred before RHS/RD executes the grant agreement; (7)
  paying any debts, expenses or costs which should be the responsibilities of the
  individual families receiving technical and supervisory assistance; (8) any type
  of political activities, and (9) other costs including contributions and donations,
  entertainment, fines and penalties, interest and other financial costs, legislative
  expenses and any excess of cost from other grant agreements. Advice and
  assistance may be obtained from the national office where ineligible costs are
  proposed as part of the TSA project or where a proposed cost appears ineligible.
  The grantee may not change fees or accept compensation or gratuities from TSA
  recipients for the grantee's assistance under the program.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Technical and Supervisory Assistance Grants may be made to public or private
  nonprofit corporations, agencies, institutions, organizations, Indian Tribes, and
  other associations. Listed below are a description and definition of eligible
  applicants: 1. Sponsored organization - A public purpose group other than a unit
  of government that is a beneficiary under a plan or program administered by a
  State, or political subdivision of a State or local government, and which is
  subject to approval by a Federal agency. Usually organized to work for a specific
  purpose. Examples: Community development agencies, model cities, and
  community action agencies; 2. public nonprofit institution/organization - A
  public owned agency or organization established to perform specialized
  functions or services for the benefit of all or part of the general public either
  without charge or at cost, making no profits and having no shareholders or
  receive dividends, includes institutions of higher education and hospitals. 3.
  Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Government - the governing body or a
  governmental agency of an Indian tribe, nation, pueblo, or other organized group
  or community (including native village as defined in the Alaska Native Claims
  Settlement Act) certified by the Secretary of the Interior as eligible for the
  special programs and services provided through the Bureau of Indian Affairs;
  and 4. private nonprofit institution/organization - privately owned organization
  or institution which represent community service networks, public information,
  technical assistance, and public education. Operated exclusively for charitable,
  scientific, literary or educational purposes such that no part of its earnings is for
  the benefit of any private shareholder or individual, includes private institutions
  of higher education and hospitals. Examples: Girl Scouts, American Civil
  Liberties Union.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Eligible beneficiaries must be low- income, individual/family and rural
  sponsored organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Have the financial, legal, administrative, and operational capacity to assume and
  carry out the responsibilities that meet this requirement of actual capacity, it
  must either: (a) Have necessary background and experience with proven ability
  to perform responsibly in the field of low-income rural housing development and
  counseling, or other business management or administrative experience which
  indicated an ability to provide responsible technical and supervisory assistance;
  or (b) be assisted by an organization which has such background experience and
  ability and which agrees in writing that it will provide, without charge, the
  assistance the applicant will need to carry out its responsibilities; (c) legally
  obligate itself to administer TSA funds, provide an adequate accounting of the
  expenditure of such funds, and comply with the grant agreement and RHS
  regulations; (d) demonstrate an understanding of the needs of low-income rural
  families; (e) have the ability and willingness to work within established
  guidelines; and (f) if the applicant is engaged in or plans to become engaged in
  any other activities, it must be able to provide sufficient evidence and
  documentation that it has adequate resources, including financial resources, to
  carry on any other programs or activities to which it is committed without
  jeopardizing the success and effectiveness of its TSA project.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Application Submission: (a) Upon notification that the applicant has been
  tentatively selected for funding, the State office will forward to the applicant a
  signed Form AD-622 and provide SF 424.1 with instructions to the applicant for
  preparation of an application; (b) upon receipt of Form AD-622, the applicant
  will submit an application, an original and two copies on Form SF 424.1, and
  provide whatever additional information is requested to the Field office within
  30 days; and (c) upon receipt of an application on SF 42.1 by the Field office, a
  docket shall be assembled which will include the following: (1) Form SF 424.1
  and the information submitted in accordance with RD Instruction 1944-k,
  1944.526(a) (2); (2) Form AD-622; (3) any comments received in accordance
  with 7 CFR part 3015 subpart V, "Intergovernmental Review of Department of
  Agriculture Programs and Activities." See RD Instruction 1940-J, available in
  any RD office; (4) SF 424.1; (5) OGC legal administration made pursuant to RD
