  Instruction 1944-K, 1944.526(c) (3); (6) grant agreement; (7) Form RD 1940-1,       
  "Request for Obligation of Funds;" (8) Form RD 400-1, "Equal Opportunity            
  Agreement;" (9) Form RD 400-4, "Assurance Agreement;" (10) Form RD 1940-            
  20, "Request for Environmental Information;" (11) Form RD 1940- 22,                 
  "Environmental Checklist for Categorical Exclusions," Form RD 1940-21,              
  "Environmental Assessment for Class I Actions" or exhibit H, subpart G of Part      
  1940 entitled, Environmental Assessment for Class II Actions; (12) the historical   
  and archaeological assessment; and (13) the detailed budget for the agreement       
  period based upon the needs outlined in the proposal and the comments and           
  recommendations by RD. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.            
  12372.                                                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Award is made by the Rural Development State Director.                              
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the State office for application deadlines.                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 60 to 90 days.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  Appeal rights are available under Rural Development's Instruction 1900 Subpart      
  B.                                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Not applicable.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Assistance is normally for one to two years. Requesting TSA checks: (a) The         
  initial TSA check may cover the applicant's needs for the first calendar month.

  If the first calendar month is a partial month, the check will cover the needs for

                                                                                      
  the partial month and the next whole month. (b) the initial advance of TSA          
  grant funds may not be requested simultaneously with the request for obligation     
  of TSA grant funds. The initial advance must be requested on Form RD 440-57         
  in accordance with the FMI after it has been received from the Finance Office       
  indicating that funds have been obligated; and (c) all advances will be requested   
  only after receipt of Standard Form 279 from the grantee. The amount requested      
  must be in accordance with the detailed budget, including amendments, as            
  approved by RHCDS. Standard Form 270 will not be submitted more frequently          
  than once every 30 days. In no case will additional funds be advanced if the        
  grantee fails to submit required reports or is in violation of the grant agreement. 
Reports:                                                                              
  Grant Evaluation, Closeout, Suspension, and Termination: (a) Grant evaluation       
  will be an ongoing activity performed by both the grantee and RHS. The grantee      
  will perform self-evaluations by preparing periodic project performance reports     
  in accordance with 1944.541. RHS will also review all reports prepared and          
  submitted by the grantee in accordance with the grant agreement and this part.      
Audits:                                                                               
  Within 45 days after the grant ending date, the grantee will complete closeout      
  procedures as specified in the grant agreement.                                     
Records:                                                                              
  Grantees are required to maintain financial records, supporting documents,          
  statistical records, and all other records pertinent to the grant for a period of at
  least 3 years after the submission of the final Project Performance report.         
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-2009-0-1-604.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not available.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  7 CFR 1944 Subpart K.                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Contact the appropriate Rural Development State office listed in Appendix IV of     
  the Catalog or on the internet at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/recd_map.html.         
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  USDA, Rural Development, Housing Programs, 14th Street and Independence             
  Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-1474. FTS is not             
  available.                                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Proposals must provide a program of supervisory assistance as defined in 7 CFR      
  1944.506(h) and they must serve areas with a concentration of substandard           
  housing and low-income and low-income minority households. In addition, the         
  proposals will be scored on the following criteria: (1) The extent to which the     


                                                                                 11-08
  program serves areas with concentrations of Rural Development single family
  housing loan borrowers who are delinquent in their housing loan payments
  and/or threatened with foreclosure. (2) The capability and past performance
  demonstrated by the applicant in administering its programs, the effectiveness of
  current efforts by the applicant to assist low-income and low-income minority
  families in obtaining adequate housing, the adequacy of records and practices
  (including personnel procedures and practices) that will be established and
  maintained by the applicant during the term of the agreement. (3) The narrative
  presentation of the applicant's proposed TSA program. (4) The extent to which
  the program will provide or increase the delivery of housing resources to low-
  income and low-income minority families who are not currently occupying
  adequate housing in the areas. (5) The extent to which the program will make
  use of other financial and contribution-in-kind resources for both technical and
  supervisory assistance and housing development and supporting facilities. (6)
  The extent to which the project will be cost effective. (7) The extent to which
  the program is effective in providing expected benefits to low-income families.
  (8) The narrative statement is based on need. (9) The services of the applicant
  will provide are not presently available in the proposed service area to assist low-
  income families in obtaining or maintaining occupancy of adequate housing and
  the extent of duplication of technical and supervisory assistance activities
  currently provided for low-income families. (10) The extent of citizen and local
  government participation and involvement in the development of the
  preapplication and project and coordination with other Federal, State or local
  technical andor supervisory assistance programs.
10.442 HOUSING APPLICATION PACKAGING GRANTS
   (Section 509 Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL DEVELOPMENT, RURAL HOUSING PROGRAMS (RHS),
  DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing Act of 1949, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1479.
OBJECTIVES:
  To package single family housing applications for very low- and low-income
  rural residents in colonias and designated counties who wish to buy, build, or
  repair houses for their own use and to package multi-family housing applications
  for organizations wishing to develop rental units for lower income families to
  construct new rental housing compelxes or to repair and rehabilitate existing
  units.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants reimburse eligible organizations for part or all of the costs of conducting,
  administering, and coordinating an effective housing application packaging
  program in colonias and designated counties. Eligible organizations aid very
  low- and low-income individuals and families in obtaining benefit from Federal,
  State, and local housing programs. The following are restrictions under the
  housing application packaging grants: (1) These funds are available only in the
  areas defined in Exhibit D of RD Instruction 1944-B; (2) the packager may not
  charge fees or accept compensation or gratuities directly or indirectly from the
  very low- and low-income families being assisted under this program; (3) the
  packager may not represent or be associated with anyone else, other than the
  applicant, who may benefit in any way in the proposed transaction; (4) if the
  packager is compensated for this service from other sources, then the packager is
  not eligible for compensation from this source except as permitted by RHS; (5)
  grantees who are funded to do self-help housing effort; and (6) the authorized
  representatives must have no pecuniary interest in the award of the architectural
  or construction contracts, the purchase of equipment, or the purchase of the land
  for the housing site.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An eligible grantee is an organization which is defined as any of the following
  entities which are legally authorized to work in designated counties and/or
  colonias and are: (1) A State, State agency, or unit of general local government;
  or (2) a private nonprofit organization or corporation that is owned and
  controlled by private persons or interests, is organized and operated for purposes
  other than making gains or profits for the corporation, and is legally precluded
  from distributing any gains or profits to its member.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The targeted groups are nonprofit organizations who will serve very low- and
  low-income families without adequate housing in the colonias and designated
  counties.
Credentials/Documentation:
  (1) Have the financial, legal, and administrative capacity to carry out the
  responsibilities of packaging housing applications for very low- and low-income
  applicants. To meet this requirement it must have the necessary background and
  experience with proven ability to perform responsibly in the field of housing
  application packaging, low-income housing development, or other business or
  administrative ventures which indicate an ability to perform responsibility in this
                                                                                         71
