  field of housing application packaging. (2) legally obligate itself to administer 
  grant funds, provide adequate account of the expenditure of such funds, and       
  comply with RHS regulations; (3) if the organization is a private nonprofit       
  corporation: (a) is organized under State and local laws. (b) is qualified under  
  Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (c) has as one of its     
  purposes assisting very-low- and low-income families to obtain affordable         
  housing; and (d) comply with the administrative requirements in RD Instruction    
  1944-B, other RHS policies and regulations.                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                          
Application Procedure:                                                              
  A package will consist of the required forms for the respective loan or grant     
  program, as listed in Exhibit C of RD Instruction 1944-B. Grantees shall submit   
  all material requested to the local Rural Development office. In addition, an     
  original and copy of Forms RD 400-1, "Equal Opportunity Agreement," and

  Form RD 400-4, "Assurance Agreement," must be submitted. A copy of a              
  current "Certificate of Training" pertaining to the type of application will be

  submitted. Applicants must also provide proof of nonprofit status under Section

                                                                                    
  501 (c)(3) or Section 501 (c)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code or of their         
  existence as a State agency or unit of government legally authorized to work in   
  the designated county and/or colonia. An SF-270, "Request for Advance or          
  Reimbursement," will be submitted with each package for the amount authorized     
  for the specific loan type, as listed in Exhibit B of RD Instruction 1944-B.      
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Awards are made by the State Director.                                            
Deadlines:                                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  The determination is made by the State Director. Grantees must attend training    
  each year in order to qualify for assistance. A copy of a current "Certificate of 
  Training" pertaining to the type of application package must be submitted.        
  Generally, training must be completed prior to December 31 of any year.           
Appeals:                                                                            
  Appeal rights are available under 7 CFR 3550.4.                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  Grantees may reapply and packages may be submitted after the annual housing       
  application packaging orientation and training is held, and a "Certificate of     
  Training" is issued.                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  The State Director will determine based on the housing funds available, how       
  many applications can be processed for each program during the fiscal year.       
  The grant period will end when sufficient packages are received for each          
  designated county or colonias, or on September 30, of the fiscal year, whichever  
  is earlier.                                                                       
Reports:                                                                            
  Quarterly reports must be submitted to the appropriate RD office servicing the    
  designated county and/or colonias.                                                
Audits:                                                                             
  Annual audits should be made as part of the recipient's systems of financial      
  management and internal control to meet terms and conditions of grants and        
  other agreements.                                                                 
Records:                                                                            
  The grantee will be required to retain records for 3 years from the date Standard 
  Form (SF) - 269A, financial status report (short form), is submitted. These       
  records will be accessible to RD and other Federal officials in accordance with 7 
  CFR Part 3015. A file of packages submitted will be established in the RD         
  office and retained in accordance with RD Instruction 2033-A.                     
Account Identification:                                                             
  12-2009-0-1-604.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $30,000; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est not available.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Fees paid for Section 502 Single Family Housing Loans, Section 504 Repair         
  Loans and Grants, and Section 514 Farm Labor Housing Loans are $500 for           
  each acceptable package. For other programs, refer to Exhibit B of RD             
  Instruction 1944-B.                                                               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  7 CFR 1944 Subpart B, 7 CFR 3014 (for nonprofit organizations) and 7 CFR

                                                                                    
  3016 (For State and local governments).

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Consult your local telephone directory under United States Department of

                                                                                    
  Agriculture for RD field office number. If no listing, contact appropriate Rural

                                                                                    
  Development State Office listed in the Appendix IV of the Catalog or on the

                                                                                    
  internet at http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/recd_map.html.d.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Director, Single Family Housing Processing Division, Rural Housing Programs,

                                                                                    


72                                                                            11-08

  Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-
  1474. FTS is not available.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.405, Farm Labor Housing Loans and Grants; 10.410, Very Low to Moderate
  Income Housing Loans; 10.411, Rural Housing Site Loans and Self_Help
  Housing Land Development Loans; 10.415, Rural Rental Housing Loans;
  10.417, Very Low-Income Housing Repair Loans and Grants; 10.433, Rural
  Housing Preservation Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
10.443 OUTREACH AND ASSISTANCE FOR SOCIALLY
DISADVANTAGED FARMERS AND RANCHERS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ASSISTANT SECRETARY FOR ADMINISTRATION, OFFICE OF
  OUTREACH, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Food, Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, Section 2501, Public
  Law 101-624, 7 U.S.C. 2279.
OBJECTIVES:
  To reverse the decline of socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers across the
  United States. The intended outcome is to encourage and assist socially
  disadvantaged farmers and ranchers to own and operate their own farms and
  ranches, participate in agricultural programs, and thus allow them to become an
  integral part of the agricultural community and strengthen the rural economy.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To provide outreach, training and technical assistance to socially disadvantaged
  farmers and ranchers on agricultural programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  1890 Land-Grant Institutions, including Tuskegee University, Indian Tribal
  Community Colleges, Alaska Native cooperative colleges, Hispanic serving
  post-secondary educational institutions, other post-secondary educational
  institutions providing Agricultural education or other agriculturally-related
  services to socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers in their region and
  community-based organizations that: (1) Have demonstrated experience in
  providing agricultural education or other agriculturally related services to
  socially disadvantaged farmers and ranchers in their region; (2) provides
  documentary evidence of its past experience in working with socially
  disadvantaged farmers and ranchers during the 2 years preceding its application
  for assistance; and (3) does not engage in activities prohibited under Section
  501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  A farmer or rancher who is a member of one or more of the following groups
  whose members have been subjected to racial or ethnic prejudice because of
  their identity as members of a group without regard to their individual qualities.
  Groups include, but are not limited to, African-Americans, Native Americans,
  Alaskan Natives, Hispanics, Asians, and Pacific Islanders. The Secretary of
  Agriculture will determine on a case-by-case basis whether additional groups
  qualify under this definition, either at the Secretary's initiative or in response to a
  written request with supporting explanation.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must have the financial, legal, administrative, and operational
  capacity to carry out the objectives of the program by having experience in
  agriculture. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-
  122 "Cost Principles for Nonprofit Organizations" and OMB Circular No. A-21,
  "Cost Principles for Educational Institutions" as implemented by USDA
  regulation 7 CFR part 3019. Community-based organizations should provide a
  current certification of non-profit status in accordance with section 501(c)(3) of
  the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Notice of fund availability and request for proposals will be published in the
  Federal Register. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Formal proposals should be submitted as outlined in the solicitation of
  proposals/applications. Application procedures are contained in the 2501
  Program Application booklet. This program is subject to the Administrative
  procedures of 7 CFR Part 26.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed and evaluated by the 2501 Program staff members with
  the assistance and advice of a review panel of appropriate persons that are
  specialists who are qualified by training and experience in the fields covered by
  the proposals. Proposals are ranked and recommended in order of merit and
  funded to the extent permitted by available funds. Final approval for those
