  proposals selected will be made by the Awarding Official.                          
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Dates governing the acceptance, review, and selection of projects will be          
  published in the Federal Register Notice or other applicable publication           
  announcing the request for proposals.                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Notice of action taken on proposals will generally be within 90 days of final date 
  of submission dateline.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  As stipulated in OMB Circular No. A-110, Uniform Administrative                    
  Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,      
  Hospitals, and other Nonprofit Organizations.                                      
Renewals:                                                                            
  None. Applicants that have previously received a grant, and have achieved the

  goals established for the previous grant, must reapply for an additional grant

  under the initial grant procedures.                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Grants can be awarded from one to five years as stipulated by the current request

                                                                                     
  for proposals notification published in the Federal Register.                      
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly financial and program performance/progress reports are due within 30

                                                                                     
  days after the reporting period. A final financial and performance/progress        
  report is required within 90 days of the expiration of each agreement, which       
  shall include an evaluation of the activities under the Agreement since the        
  inception of the Project.                                                          
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of States, Local     
  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," which implement OMB Circular           
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and      
  Non-Profit Organizations," Nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance    
  of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific     
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than           
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements       
  for that year, except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.                                      
Records:                                                                             
  Grantees shall maintain separate records for each grant to ensure that funds are   
  used for authorized purposes. Grant-related records must be retained at least      
  three years; records must be retained beyond the three-year period if litigation is
  pending or audit findings have not been resolved.                                  
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-0601-0-1-351.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $5,666,890; FY 08 est $6,652,800; and FY 09 est not reported.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  FY 2001, 27 recipients - $62,941 to $550,000, average was approximately

                                                                                     
  $225,000; and FY 2002, 30 recipients - $66,437 to $276,822, average was

                                                                                     
  approximately $200,000.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  The 27 recipients serviced 22 States and 394 counties by providing assistance to

                                                                                     
  more than 8,686 farmers and ranchers. These efforts have provided outreach to

                                                                                     
  more than 107,566 rural constituents.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  7 CFR Part 26, "Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers

                                                                                     
  and Ranchers Program; and 2501 Program Application Booklet.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Contact appropriate USDA State Office listed in Appendix IV of Catalog.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                     
  Department of Agriculture, USDA Office of Outreach, 1400 Independence

                                                                                     
  Avenue, SW., AG STOP 1710, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202)720-

                                                                                     
  6350. Fax: (202) 720-7489.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  http://www.usda.gov/agency/outreach.

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

  10.224, Fund for Rural America_Research, Education, and Extension Activities;      
  10.350, Technical Assistance to Cooperatives; 10.450, Crop Insurance; 10.500,      
                                                                                     
  Cooperative Extension Service; 10.960, Technical Agricultural Assistance.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  Under the current funded projects, the grantees proposed a one-year plan for       
                                                                                     
  outreach and technical assistance to encourage and assist socially disadvantaged

                                                                                     
  farmers and ranchers to own and operate farms and ranches and to participate in

                                                                                     
  agricultural programs.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  Prior to technical examination, a preliminary review will be made for

                                                                                     
  responsiveness to the solicitation. Proposals that do not fall within the

                                                                                     
  solicitation guidelines will be eliminated from competition. All accepted

                                                                                     
  proposals will be reviewed by a review panel. In evaluating the proposal, the

                                                                                     
  following will be taken into account to the degree to which the proposal

                                                                                     
  demonstrates the following: (1)degree to which the proposal clearly describes its

                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  objective and evidences a high level of feasibility and consistency with USDA
  policy and the Outreach and Assistance for Socially Disadvantaged Farmers and
  Ranchers objectives; (2)degree to which the institution or organization is
  committed to the project, as shown by funds, in-kind services, or historical
  success in meeting the objectives of the program; (3)degree to which the
  proposal reflects collaborative approaches in meeting with other agencies or
  organizations to enhance the objectives of the program. Also, the areas and
  number of farmers who would benefit from the services offered; (4)degree to
  which the proposal contains efforts to reach persons identified as socially
  disadvantaged and farmers in designated socially disadvantage counties; and
  (5)degree to which the proposal reflects special innovative features to attract,
  interest, and improve the economical and social conditions of the farmer and/or
  rancher.
10.444 DIRECT HOUSING-NATURAL DISASTER LOANS
AND GRANTS
   (SECTION 504, Rural Housing Loans and Grants)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL DEVELOPMENT, HOUSING PROGRAMS (RHP), DEPARTMENT
  OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing Act of 1949, Title V, Section 504, as amended, Public Laws 89-117,
  89-754, and 92-310, 42 U.S.C. 1474; Public Law 104-134.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist qualified recipients to meet emergency assistance needs resulting from
  natural disaster. Funds are only available to the extent that funds are not
  provided by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). For the
  purpose of administering these funds, natural disaster will only include those
  counties identified by a Presidential declaration.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Loans; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To assist very-low income owner- occupants to repair or replace damaged
  property as a direct result of a natural disaster. Loans are made in counties
  named by the Federal Management Agency as being eligible for Federal
  assistance under an emergency declaration by the President.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must own and occupy the home in a rural area. Loan recipients must
  have sufficient income to repay the loan. Grant recipients must be 62 years of
  age or older and be unable to repay a loan for that part of the assistance received
  as a grant. The applicant's income for a loan may not exceed the very low-
  income limit which can be obtained in any Rural Development (RD) field office.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Applicants/borrowers are the direct beneficiaries when they meet all eligibility
  criteria.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Natural disasters will only include those areas identified by a Presidential
  declaration. Funds are only available to the extent that funds are not provided
  by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA). Applicants must
  establish that physical damage was caused by natural disaster. For Section 504
  loans/grants, there must be evidence of ownership and verification of income
  and debts. For grant recipients, evidence of age is required. The applicant must
  be unable to get credit elsewhere and demonstrate repayment for the loan.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must file Form RD 410-4 at the Rural Development field office
  serving the county where the dwelling is located. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Final approval of the application is given by the local or area office loan
  approval official.
Deadlines:
  Applicants must file applications from the date of declaration/designation and
  until supplemental appropriated funds are exhausted.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 30 to 60 days subject to the availability of funds, from the time the
  application is filed if no backlog of applications exist.
Appeals:
  Applicants may request reconsideration at the local RD field office and may
  appeal adverse actions in accordance with 7 CFR Part 11. Appeals may be filed
  within 30 days after notification of the adverse decision is received by the
  loan/grant applicants.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no matching requirement or statutory formula.
                                                                                        73
