  To develop the capacity and ability of private, nonprofit community-based            
  housing and community development organizations, and low income rural                
  communities to improve housing, community facilities, community and                  
  economic development projects in rural areas.                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Rural Community Development Initiative grants may be used for but are not            
  limited to (a) training sub-grantees to conduct a program on home-ownership          
  education; (b) training sub- grantees to conduct a program for minority business     
  entrepreneurs; (c) providing technical assistance to sub-grantees on how to          
  effectively prepare a strategic plan; (d) provide technical assistance to sub-       
  grantees on how to access alternative funding sources; (e) building                  
  organizational capacity through board training; (f) developing training tools,       
  such as videos, workbooks, and reference guides to be used by the sub-grantee;       
  (g) providing technical assistance and training on how to develop successful         
  child care facilities; and (h) providing training on effective fundraising           
  techniques.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Rural Community Development Initiative grants may be made to a legally               
  qualified private or public (including tribal) organization that provides technical  
  assistance to nonprofit community-based housing and community development            
  organizations, and low income rural communities. The grantee must provide a          
  program of technical assistance to the sub-grantee. The grantee must have been       
  legally organized for a minimum of three years prior experience working with         
  nonprofit organizations or low-income rural communities in the areas of              
  housing, community facilities, or community and economic development.                
  Assistance is authorized for eligible applicants in rural areas of the States, Puerto
  Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the commonwealth of the              
  Northern Mariana Islands, the Marshall Islands, the Republic of Palaw, and the       
  Federated States of Micronesia.                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Subgrantees must be legally organized private, nonprofit community-based             
  housing and community development organizations, low income rural                    
  communities, and Federally recognized Indian Tribes.                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Have the legal, financial, administrative, and operational capacity relative to the  
  activity for which assistance is requested. Have necessary background and            
  experience with proven ability to perform responsibly in the areas of housing,       
  community facilities, or community and economic development. Have the                
  ability to work within established guidelines.                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  A complete application for RCDI funds must include the following: (a) a              
  summary page; (b) a detailed table of contents containing page numbers for           
  each component of the application; (c) a project overview; (d) the evaluation        
                                                                                       
  criteria; (e) a separate one-page information sheet listing each of the evaluation

                                                                                       
  criteria followed by the page numbers of all relevant material and documentation

                                                                                       
  contained in the application which supports these criteria; (f) a breakdown of

                                                                                       
  specific time increments and steps to accomplish goals; (g) a detailed breakdown

                                                                                       
  of estimated costs and a project budget; (h) organizational documents for the

                                                                                       
  grantee; (i) Form SF-424, Application for Federal Assistance; (j) Form SF-424B,

                                                                                       
  Assurances - Non-Construction Programs; (k) Form AD-1047, Certification

                                                                                       
  Regarding Debarment, Suspension, and Other Responsibility Matters Primary

                                                                                       
  Covered Transactions; (l) Form AD-1048, Certification Regarding Debarment,

                                                                                       
  Suspension, Ineligibility and Voluntary Exclusion Lower Tier Covered

                                                                                       
  Transactions; (m) Form AD-1049, Certification Regarding Drug-Free

  Workplace Requirements; (n) Certification of Non- Lobbying Activities; (o)

  Standard Form LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities; (p) Form RD 400-4,             
  Assurance Agreement; and (q) report any association or relationship with Rural       
  Development employees. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.             
  12372.

Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application procedures will be announced in the Federal Register and on the

  Grants.gov web site.                                                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Award is made by the Administrator, Housing and Community Facilities                 
  Programs.                                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Announced in Federal Register.                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  As required, 90 days to 120 days.                                                    
Appeals:                                                                               
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated. The       
  applicant may request a review of the decision from the National Appeals             
  Division, USDA.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  The grantee must provide matching funds at least equal to the amount of the          
  grant in the form of cash or committed funding. (No in-kind contributions.)          


                                                                                  11-08
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Proposals must be structured to utilize the Rural Community Development
  Initiative grant funds within 3 years from the execution of the Rural Community
  Development Initiative grant agreement.
Reports:
  The grantee will perform self-evaluations by preparing quarterly financial and
  project performance reports in accordance with the grant agreement for RCDI.
Audits:
  Periodic audits should be made as part of the grantee's system of financial
  management and internal control to meet terms and conditions of the grant. In
  accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," which implement OMB Circular
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance
  of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that
  year, except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.
Records:
  The borrower must maintain adequate records and accounts related to the
  technical assistance performed.
Account Identification:
  12-2081-0-1-371; 12-4215-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $6,200,000; FY 08 est $6,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $50,000 to $500,000. Average: $250,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 38 grants were made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Administrative Regulations 7 CFR 3015, 7 CFR 3016, 7 CFR 3019, 7 CFR
  3052; H.R. 5426 Guidelines announced in NOFA, published in the Federal
  Register.
Regional or Local Office:
  Consult your local telephone directory for Rural Development state office
  numbers. If no listing, contact the appropriate Rural Development State Office
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Deputy Administrator, Community Programs, Housing and Community
  Facilities Programs, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250- 3222.
  Telephone: (202) 720-1490.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rhs/rcdi/index.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grants were made to (a) hire a staff person to provide technical assistance to the
  sub-grantee; (b) the sub-grantee organization hires a staff person, under the
  supervision of the grantee, to carry out the technical assistance; (c) develop the
  capacity of sub-grantees to conduct community development programs; (d)
  develop the capacity of sub-grantees to conduct home-ownership education
  programs; and (e) develop the capacity of sub-grantees to conduct training for
  minority business entrepreneurs.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Factors considered for project selection include but are not limited to median
  household income, rural population, and points for evaluation criteria.
10.447 THE RURAL DEVELOPMENT (RD) MULTI-FAMILY
HOUSING REVITALIZATION DEMONSTRATION
PROGRAM (MPR)
   (Restructuring Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL HOUSING SERVICE (RHS), DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Housing Act of 1949, as amended, Sections 514/516 and 515, and The
  Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related
  Agencies Appropriations Act, 2008 (Public Law 110-161)
OBJECTIVES:
  To preserve and revitalize existing rural rental housing and farm labor housing
  projects financed by RHS under Section 515 and Sections 514/516 of the
  Housing Act of 1949 and to ensure that sufficient resources are available in
  order to continue to provide safe and affordable housing for low-income
  residents.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds will be used to meet the physical needs of rental and farm labor housing
  properties financed under Section 515 and Sections 514/516 of the Housing Act
                                                                                       75
