  of 1949. Related soft costs are also eligible. Owners or buyers are required to       
  agree to a Restrictive Use Covenant for 20 years or the remaining term of any         
  loans, or the remaining term of any existing restrictive-use provisions whichever     
  ends later. This ensures the property will be used for low income housing as          
  defined by the Housing Act of 1949.                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Owners or buyers of financially viable Section 515 financed rental or Section         
  514/516 labor housing properties.                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Low-income rural residents needing safe, decent and sanitary rental housing.          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  Applicants must provide a Capital Needs Assessment (CNA) to identify the              
  physical needs of the property as well as the estimated cost to make the needed       
  repairs over a 20-year period.                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  Multi-Family Housing Revitalization Demonstration Program (MPR) Pre-                  
  application. An electronic version of this form can be found on the internet at       
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rd/nofas/index.html or obtained by contacting the          
  RD State Office in the state where the project is located. This program is            
  excluded from coverage under E.O.12372.                                               
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  For FY 08, the MPR Program will be awarded through a Notice of Funding                
  Availability announced in the Federal Register on March 12, 2008. The NOFA            
  pre-application period is 60 days from the date of the announcement. The              
  NOFA deadline is May 12, 2008.

Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Pre-applications will be scored on the following factors: (1) Contribution of

  third party funds; (2) Owner contribution sufficient to pay transaction costs; (3)    
  Age of Project; (4) Transfer and revitalization of troubled projects; (5) Prior       
  Agency approvals of CNAs; (6) Installation of energy generation systems; (7)          
  Energy conservation; and (8) New tenant services to be provided by a non-profit       
  organization at no cost to the project and that are available to all tenants.         
Deadlines:                                                                              
  May 12, 2008.                                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Within 45 days from Pre-application submission, pre-applications will be scored       
  and ranked, eligibility will be confirmed, and applicants will be notified of         
  selection for participation and requested to submit full applications.                
                                                                                        
Appeals:

  Applicant may request reconsideration on the basis of pertinent facts concerning      
  the application.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                               
  Applicants may reapply at the next Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA).             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This program is now a Notice of Funding Availability (NOFA). This is a                
  demonstration program.                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Debt deferral is the lesser of the remaining term of the existing loan or 20 years.   
  A balloon payment of accrued principal and interest will be due at the end of the     
  deferral period. A revitalization grant for non-profit applicants/borrowers only,     
  is limited to the cost of correcting health and safety violations as identified by a  
  CNA. A revitalization zero percent loan will be amortized over 30 years. A            
  soft-second loan with a one percent interest rate will have its interest and          
  principal deferred, to a balloon payment, due at the time the latest maturing         
  Section 514 or 515 loan becomes due. An additional 30-year Section 515 loan           
  at an effective one percent interest rate amortized over a period not to exceed 50    
  years. An additional 33-year Section 514 loan at an effective one percent             
  interest rate amortized over a period not to exceed 33 years. An additional           
  Section 516 grant not to exceed the lesser of 90 percent of the total development     
  cost, or that portion of the total development cost which exceeds the sum of any      
                                                                                        
  amount provided by the applicant from their own resources plus the amount of

                                                                                        
  any Section 514 loans approved for the applicant.

                                                                                        
Reports:

  Quarterly or annual financial reports.                                                
                                                                                        
Audits:

  Quarterly or annual financial statements completed using agreed-upon                  
  procedures and performance standards described in the RHS Multi-Family                
  Housing Audit Program.                                                                
                                                                                        
Records:

  Business records must be retained.                                                    
Account Identification:                                                                 
  12-2081-0-1-371.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 $20,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  The underwriting guidelines include, but are not limited to, the following: The       
  maximum soft-second loan will be limited to no more than $5,000 per unit;             
  revitalization grants limited to $5,000 per unit; total assistance provided from a    
  revitalization grant, revitalization zero percent loan, and/or a soft-second loan is  
  limited to $10,000 per unit; and the maximum Section 515 loan or Section              
                                                                                        


76                                                                                11-08

  514/516 loan and grant is limited to no more than $20,000 per unit.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007, 87 properties received assistance for revitalization and
  preservation.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to the NOFA which lists contacts at the National Office and consult your
  local telephone directory for Rural Development District or State Office number.
   Also, contact information is available on the internet at
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/recd_map.html.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Rental Housing Preservation, Attention: Sandra L. Mercier, Rural
  Development, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone:
  (202) 720-1617.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.415, Rural Rental Housing Loans.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals will be selected based on eligibility and ranking and scoring criteria
  listed in the NOFA.
10.449 BOLL WEEVIL ERADICATION LOAN PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related
  Agencies Appropriations Act, Public Law 104-180, 7 U.S.C. 1989.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist producers and State governmental agencies to eradicate boll weevils
  from the United States.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to purchase or lease supplies and equipment, to pay entity
  operating expenses and to pay salaries and benefits. Loan funds may not be
  used to pay for lobbying, public relations, or related activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants may be determined eligible if the organization: (a) Meets the Animal
  and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) cost-sharing requirements; (b)
  possesses a legal nonprofit corporate authority; (c) possesses the legal authority
  to enter into a contract; (d) operates in an area approved by a majority of cotton
  producers via referendum; (e) is unable to obtain funds elsewhere; and (f) may
  pledge producer assets as loan collateral.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The beneficiaries of this program include the local boll weevil organization and
  agricultural community as well as local, State, and national governments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  All applicants must be nonprofit entities, authorized to operate under the
  appropriate State law and for the specific purpose of eradicating boll weevils
  from the nation's agricultural community.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants are eligible for loan consideration after pre-approved funding is
  established by APHIS. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  Complete applications will be accepted by the National Office accompanied by
  documentation showing the entity's authority to borrow and the operation's
  ability to make the scheduled loan payment(s).
Award Procedure:
  Loans will be written within specific credit guidelines as well as within the
  borrowing entity's documented ability to repay the loan.
Deadlines:
  Initial loan request should be reviewed with APHIS prior to the funding year
  with a complete loan package submitted to FSA 90 days prior to the anticipated
  disbursal of funds.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Agency credit decisions will generally be issued within 60 days of the receipt of
  a complete loan package.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Boll weevil loans are term loans based upon certain procedural and program
  criteria. Although loans are not renewed, additional loan requests may be
  submitted by each entity for consideration.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  While there are eligibility requirements, there are no formula or matching fund
