  requirements.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Loans can be applied for at anytime during the year. The loan term varies        
  anywhere from one to seven years.                                                
Reports:                                                                           
  Profit and loss statements may be required monthly, but are always required      
  quarterly and annually. Income and expense deviations in excess of ten percent   
  must be reported immediately.                                                    
Audits:                                                                            
  Audited financial statements and profit and loss statements will be annually     
  submitted for review and analysis.                                               
Records:                                                                           
  Detailed records will be maintained by each entity in the respective offices.    
  These same records will be made available to the Agency for review upon          
  demand.                                                                          
Account Identification:                                                            
  12-1140-0-1-351.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Interest Free Loan) FY 07 $59,400,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est   
  not reported.                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Not available.                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  The FSA Boll Weevil Eradication program is in its third year. Loans have been    
  made or are in the process of being made in most all cotton producing States.    
  Although the eradication of the boll weevil is difficult, where implemented, the 
  program is highly successful. Full implementation is anticipated within the next 
  five years and general eradication accomplished within the next decade.          
  Maintenance programs will be required perpetually.                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  The Federal regulations are found at 7 CFR Part 1941, Subpart C.                 
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                   
  Not applicable.

                                                                                   
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                   
  Farm Service Agency, Loan Making Funds Management Branch, 1400

                                                                                   
  Independence Avenue SW., Stop 0522, Room 5438 SO/AGRIB, Washington,

                                                                                   
  DC 20250-0522. Telephone: (202) 720-1632.

                                                                                   
Web Site Address:

  http://www.fsa.usda.gov.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  10.025, Plant and Animal Disease, Pest Control, and Animal Care.                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Tennessee Boll Weevil Eradication Foundation.                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  The criteria for selecting applications are based upon area boll weevil          
  infestation, APHIS recommendation, individual State and Charter authority, and   
  the ability of the entity to repay the loan.                                     
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
10.450 CROP INSURANCE                                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 1501-1520, Agricultural         
  Adjustment Act of 1938, Title V, 52 Stat. 31; Federal Crop Insurance Act of      
  1980, as amended, Public Law 101-624; Federal Crop Insurance Reform Act of       
  1994, Public Law 103-354; Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of      
  1996, Public Law 104-127; Agricultural Research, Extension, and Education        
  Reform Act of 1998, Public Law 105-185; Agriculture, Rural Development,          
  Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of         
  1999, Public Law 105- 277; Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug         
  Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriation Act of 2000, Public Law       
  106-78; Agriculture Risk Protection Act of 2000, Public Law 106-224;             
  Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related        
  Agencies Appropriation Act of 2001, Public Law 106-387; Agriculture, Rural       
  Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies                  
  Appropriation Act of 2002, Public Law 107-76.                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To promote the national welfare by improving the economic stability of           
  agriculture through a sound system of crop insurance and providing the means     
  for the research and experience helpful in devising and establishing such        
  insurance.                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Insurance.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  The Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) is a wholly owned government       
  corporation created February 16, 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1501.) Public Law 96-365,        
  dated September 26, 1980, amended the program to provide for nationwide          
  expansion of a comprehensive crop insurance plan. The Federal Agriculture        
  Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (P.L.104-127) required the Secretary of       
  Agriculture to establish an independent office for supervision of the FCIC. The  
                                                                              11-08
  Risk Management Agency (RMA) administers the FCIC and promotes the
  national welfare by serving America's agricultural producers through effective,
  market-based risk management solutions and promoting, supporting and
  regulating sound risk management solutions to preserve and strengthen the
  economic stability of America's agricultural producers. RMA fully subsidizes
  catastrophic crop insurance protection (CAT) except for minor administrative
  fees paid by the producer. CAT coverage compensates the producer for yield
  losses exceeding 50 percent of yield and at a price equal to 55 percent of
  maximum price (or equivalent amounts for dollar-based programs). RMA offers
  additional protection at higher levels of coverage and variable levels of premium
  subsidy. The Farm Service Agency (FSA) administers the Noninsured
  Assistance Program (NAP). NAP is available to provide coverage for food or
  fiber crops equivalent to the catastrophic crop insurance protection in areas
  where catastrophic crop insurance protection is not available. FCIC offered
  insurance on the following crops or commodities for the 2007 crop year, with
  some available only in limited areas: Adjusted Gross Revenue, Adjusted Gross
  Revenue-Lite, Almonds, Apples, Apricots, Avocado Trees (Florida), Avocados
  (Revenue, Actual Production History (APH)), Banana Trees, Bananas, Barley
  (APH, Income Protection (IP), Revenue Assurance (RA)), Blueberries, Cabbage,
  Canola (APH, RA), Cherry (Dollar), Chile Peppers, Citrus, Citrus Tree (Texas),
  Clams, Coffee, Coffee Trees, Corn (APH, Crop Revenue Coverage (CRC),
  Group Risk Income Protection (GRIP), Group Risk Protection (GRP), IP,
  Indexed Income Protection (IIP), RA), Cotton (APH, CRC, GRIP, GRP, IP, RA),
  Cranberries, Cultivated Wild Rice, Dry Beans, Dry Peas, Extra Long Staple
  Cotton, Figs, Flax, Florida Fruit Tree, Forage, Forage (APH, GRP), Forage Seed
  (Alfalfa), Forage Seeding, Fresh Market Sweet Corn, Fresh Market Tomatoes
  (APH, Dollar), Grain Sorghum (APH, CRC, GRIP, GRP, IP), Grapefruit,
  Grapes, Green Beans for Canning, Green Peas, Hybrid Corn Seed, Hybrid Grain
  Sorghum Seed, Lemons, Limes, Livestock, Macadamia Nuts, Macadamia Trees,
  Mandarins, Mango Trees (Florida), Millet, Mint, Murcotts, Mustard, Naval
  Oranges (Citrus Dollar, APH), Nectarines, Nursery, Oats, Onions, Oranges,
  Papaya, Papaya Trees, Pasture, Peaches , Peaches, Peanuts (APH, GRP), Pears,
  Pecan Revenue, Peppers, Plums, Popcorn, Potatoes, Prunes, Raisins, Rangeland,
  Rangeland (GRP), Rice (APH, CRC, RA), Rye, Safflower, Silage Sorghum,
  Soybeans (APH, CRC, GRIP, GRP, IP, IIP, RA), Stonefruit, Strawberries, Sugar
  Beets, Sugarcane, Sunflowers (APH, RA), Sweet Corn for Canning,
  Sweetpotatoes, Table Grapes, Tangelos, Tangerines, Tobacco, Tomatoes
  (Canning and Processing), Walnuts, and Wheat (APH, CRC, GRIP, GRP, IP,
  RA).to more affordable risk management tools and improved protection from
  production and income loss, and to improve the efficiency and integrity of the
  Federal crop insurance program. Due to the new legislation, RMA has improved
  basic products by implementing higher premium subsidies to made buy- up
  coverage more affordable for producers; made adjustments in actual production
  history guarantees; and revised the administrative fees for CAT coverage. Other
  major provisions of ARPA include: expanded authority of general pilot
  programs; expansion of the Dairy Options Pilot Program and Risk Management
  Education; tightening of program compliance and integrity; establishment of
  expert
  reviewpanels and procedures for reviewing policies, plans of insurance, and
  related material or modifications; mandating availability and acceptance of
  electronic information; and strengthening of "good farming practices" by
  including scientifically sound sustainable and organic farming practices. RMA
  has implemented a cost-share program to producers in eleven historically
  underserved states in the Northeast to purchase AGR insurance. Under this
  program, RMA will pay 50 percent of the producer-paid premium and the entire
  administrative fee. RMA anticipates more crops and/or commodities will
  become insurable through pilot programs approved by the FCIC Board of
  Directors.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Unless otherwise restricted by the insurance policy, owners or operators of
  farmland, who have an insurable interest in a crop in a county where insurance is
  offered on that crop are eligible for insurance. Producers will be covered under
  the Noninsured Assistance Program (NAP) which is available to provide
  coverage similar to the catastrophic risk protection in areas where catastrophic
  risk protection is not available, if such crop is produced for food or fiber and the
  area is authorized.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any insured producer who has a financial loss caused from a covered peril for
  the particular crop insured or covered by the Noninsured Assistance Program
  (NAP).
Credentials/Documentation:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102
  and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application for crop insurance offered by a company reinsured by FCIC must be
  filed with a crop insurance sales agent. Both catastrophic and additional
  coverage are available only from private companies. In general, crops and
  acreage must be reported to establish insurance coverage for crop insurance and,
                                                                                         77
