  if not eligible for crop insurance, such must be filed to establish eligibility for 
  NAP. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.           
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The insurance contract becomes effective upon issuance of a Notice of               
  Acceptance by the insurance company. Notices of Acceptance for insurance            
  coverage are issued upon a determination that the applicant is eligible.            
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Applications must be filed by the appropriate sales closing date for the crop       
  involved.                                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 15 to 20 days.                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                              
  Appeals should be addressed within 30 days to the National Appeals Division,        
  U.S. Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Continuous insurance contract.                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula nor matching requirements.                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  Private Industry Crop Insurance Acreage Report; Actual Production History           
  Yield Report; and in the event of a loss, Notice of Damage, Production              
  Worksheet, and proof of loss.                                                       
Audits:                                                                               
  Recipients are subject to audit by the RMA internal compliance function, private    
  insurance company auditors, Office of the Inspector General, USDA, and the          
  General Accounting Office.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Insured must keep for 3 years, after the end of the crop year, records of           
  harvesting, shipments, sale or other disposition of all insured crops produced on   
  each unit covered by the contract and separate records for any uninsured acreage    
  of the insured crops.                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-4085-0-3-351.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Total indemnities): Indemnities: FY 07 $5,266,271,000; FY 08 est                   
  $6,569,971,000; and FY 09 est not reported. (Premium subsidy to farmers             
  through reinsured companies): FY 07 est $2,803,070,000; FY 08 est                   
  $3,663,065,000; and FY 09 est not reported.                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Level of assistance varies according to policy, crop and indemnities paid.          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  For crop year 2006, the estimates are approximately 262.6 million acres for total   
  insurance protection of an estimated $49.9 billion, and for crop year 2007, the     
  estimates are 264.3 million acres for total insurance protection of an estimated    
  $68.9 billion. For crop year 2008, the estimates are approximately 262.6 million    
  acres for total insurance protection of an estimated $66.9 billion.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  7 CFR Part 400 and a brochure "Introduction to Risk Management"- available at       
  no charge.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Interested producers should contact their Regional Office listed in Appendix IV     
  of the Catalog, or a private industry crop insurance agent.                         
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Department of Agriculture, Administrator, Risk Management Agency, Ag Box            
  0801, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 690-2803.                              
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.rma.usda.gov.

                                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                      
  10.404, Emergency Loans; 97.022, Flood Insurance.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                     
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
10.451 NONINSURED ASSISTANCE                                                          
     (NAP)                                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, as amended, 15              
  U.S.C. 714b and 714c; 7 U.S.C. 7333.                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide crop loss assistance comparable to the catastrophic risk protection      
  level of crop insurance to producers of commercial crops or other agricultural      
  commodities for which the catastrophic risk protection level of crop insurance is   
  not available.                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  


78                                                                              11-08

  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  None.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible crops include each commercial crop or other agricultural commodities
  (except livestock and their by-products; tobacco; and trees grown for wood,
  paper, or pulp products) that is produced for food or fiber and specifically
  includes: Floricultural, ornamental nursery, and Christmas tree crops, turfgrass
  sod, seed crops, aquaculture (including ornamental fish), and industrial crops.
  An eligible producer is an owner, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper: (1) Who
  shares in the risk of producing the crop; (2) who is entitled to share in the crop
  available for marketing or would have shared had the crop been produced; and
  (3) whose qualifying gross revenue is less than $2 million for the preceding tax
  year for which an application for coverage is filed.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Applicant Eligibility: Eligible crops include each commercial crop or other
  agricultural commodities (except livestock and their by-products; tobacco; and
  trees grown for wood, paper, or pulp products) that is produced for food or fiber
  and specifically includes: floricultural, ornamental nursery, and Christmas tree
  crops, turfgrass sod, seed crops, aquaculture (including ornamental fish), and
  industrial crops. An eligible producer is an owner, landlord, tenant, or
  sharecropper: (1) who shares in the risk of producing the crop; (2) who is
  entitled to share in the crop available for marketing or would have shared had
  the crop been produced; and (3) whose qualifying gross revenue is less than $2
  million for the preceding tax year for which an application for coverage is filed.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must provide to the local administrative FSA office, annual
  certifications of acreage, yield, and production. Randomly selected producers
  and producers requesting program payments must also provide acceptable
  records of production. Applicants must provide evidence as necessary for a
  proper determination of their eligibility.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must file an application for coverage in the local administrative FSA
  office. An applicable service fee must accompany the application. Coverage is
  effective the later of: (1) 30 days after the application for coverage is filed; (2)
  date the crop is planted for yield-based crops or the beginning of the crop year
  for all other eligible crops. Other documentation required to fulfill the
  application requirements include: (1) A report of acreage, facility, etc.; (2) a
  notice of loss when the eligible crop is prevented from being planted as a result
  of eligible natural disaster or the eligible planted crop or commodity suffers loss
  of yield due to eligible natural disaster; (3) if the crop is harvested, a
  certification of production, and in the crop year for which an application for
  payment is filed, acceptable evidence of production, (4) if the crop will not be
  harvested, a request to the local county FSA office for appraisal; and (5) a
  certification of gross revenue.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  Applications for coverage to include both prevented planting and low-yield
  coverage must be filed at least 30 calendar days prior to the final planting date
  for yield based crops or in the case of multiple planted crops, 30 calendar days
  prior to the beginning of the respective planting period. Applications for
  coverage to include only low-yield coverage may be filed until the final planting
  date for yield based crops or in the case of multiple planted crops, the beginning
  of the respective planting period. Applications for all other eligible crops must
  be filed no later than the beginning of the crop year. Other reporting
  requirements and deadlines will become applicable upon acceptance of the
  application for coverage.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The county committee will normally make a decision regarding the application
  for payment within 60 calendar days after all required information and
  documentation is received.
Appeals:
  Applicants may request reconsideration of a decision by the decision authority
  or appeal such decisions to a higher authority including the county and State
  FSA committees and the National Appeals Division.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula and matching requirements are not considered under this part.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is normally provided in a single payment following approval of the
  application for payment.
Reports:
  There are no reports due for post assistance requirements under this program.
Audits:
  Recipients under this program are subject to audit by the Office of the Regional
  Inspector General, USDA.
