Records:                                                                             
  Applicants must retain financial books and records that permit verification of all 
  transactions for at least 3 years following the end of the calendar year in which  
  an application for coverage is filed.                                              
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-4336-0-3-351.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Direct Cash Payments) FY 07 $327,744,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY         
  09 est not reported.                                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Procedural handbooks and published regulations are available in county FSA         
  offices.                                                                           
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Consult the local telephone directory for location of the nearest county FSA       
  office. If no listing, contact the appropriate State FSA office.                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, Production, Emergency and          
  Compliance Division, Noninsured Assistance Program Branch, Stop 0517, 1400         
  Independence Avenue SW, Washington, DC 20250-0526. Telephone: (202)720-            
  5172.                                                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  10.450, Crop Insurance; 10.054, Emergency Conservation Program; 10.404,            
  Emergency Loans; 10.066, Livestock Assistance Program; 10.073, Crop                
  Disaster Program; 10.452, Disaster Reserve Assistance.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  There are no funded projects related to this program.                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  None.                                                                              
                                                                                     
10.452 DISASTER RESERVE ASSISTANCE                                                   
                                                                                     
   (DRAP)

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                     
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                     
  Agricultural Act of 1970, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 1427a.

                                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                     
  To provide emergency assistance to eligible livestock owners, in a State, county,

                                                                                     
  or area approved by the Secretary or designee, where because of disease, insect

                                                                                     
  infestation, flood, drought, fire, hurricane, earthquake, hail storm, hot weather,

                                                                                     
  cold weather, freeze, snow, ice, and winterkill, or other natural disaster, a

                                                                                     
  livestock emergency has been determined to exist.

                                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                     
  Direct Payments are for unrestricted use. Feed on which cost-sharing is received:

                                                                                     
   (a) Must be fed to the producer's livestock; (b) may not be resold; and (c) must

                                                                                     
  be utilized during the established feeding period.

                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  Applicants must meet all of the following conditions as determined by the

                                                                                     
  approving official: (1) May not have total annual gross revenue in excess of

                                                                                     
  $2.5 million; (2) be actively engaged in farming with at least 10 percent of gross

                                                                                     
  revenue derived from the production of grain or livestock; (3) must have           
  suffered a 40 percent or greater loss of normal feed production on the farm; and   
  (4) have insufficient feed available for eligible livestock for the duration of the
  emergency; and (5) applicants eligible to receive program benefits under more      
  than one program administered by the Secretary for the same crop loss must         
  choose whether to receive other program benefits or disaster reserve assistance    
  benefits. Applicants are not eligible for both. Basic program eligibility          
  requirements include: (1) For the Disaster Reserve Assistance Program, crop        
  losses in areas that have suffered a 40 percent or greater loss of normal grazing, 
  and feed grain and forage production, and determined to be in a livestock feed     
  emergency due to a natural disaster; (2) for the Emergency Feed Grain Donation     
  Program: (a) the State committee must determine and document a livestock feed      
  emergency on a county-by-county basis, when the danger of eligible livestock       
  perishing as a result of snow and freezing conditions exists in the county, (b) the
  livestock owner, or other person or entities (public or private) certify that the  
  eligible livestock were or are in danger of perishing without immediate            
  assistance; and (3) the Foundation Livestock Relief (Cost-Share) Program: (a)      
  when foundation livestock are stranded and in imminent danger of perishing,        
  and (b) when the State committee determines and documents livestock losses         
  due to severe weather conditions.                                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Applicants must meet all of the following conditions as determined by the          
                                                                                11-08
  approving official: (1) May not have total annual gross revenue in excess of
  $2.5 million; (2) be actively engaged in farming with at least 10 percent of gross
  revenue derived from the production of grain or livestock; (3) must have
  suffered a 40 percent or greater loss of normal feed production on the farm; and
  (4) have insufficient feed available for eligible livestock for the duration of the
  emergency; and (5) applicants eligible to receive program benefits under more
  than one program administered by the Secretary for the same crop loss must
  choose whether to receive other program benefits or disaster reserve assistance
  benefits. Applicants are not eligible for both.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must certify: (1) Ownership of livestock, feed loss, and feed
  available, (2) that annual gross revenue is not in excess of $2.5 million, (3)
  derives at least 10 percent of gross revenue from the production of grain and
  livestock. Applicants must also be an established producer or husbandry of
  livestock or a dairy producer who is: (1) Actively engaged in farming; (2) a
  citizen of, or legal resident alien in the United States; (3) a farm cooperative,
  private domestic corporation, partnership, or joint operation in which a majority
  interest is held by the members, stockholders, or partners who are citizens of, or
  legal resident aliens of the United States; (4) any Indian tribe or tribal
  organization of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act;
  and (5) any organization under the Indian Reorganization Act or Financing Act.
Preapplication Coordination:
  There is no preapplication coordination related to this program. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102 and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  (1) Applicants visit the county FSA office in the eligible county to make
  application, certify eligibility and report feed loss, feed available, and eligible
  livestock related to the disaster occurrence; and (2) applicants also receive
  authority to participate in the program as provided by the approving official.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section
  below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval is 30 days or less in most cases if complete information is furnished by
  the applicant.
Appeals:
  Applicants may appeal to the county and State FSA committees and to the
  National Appeals Division.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Formula and matching requirements are not considered under this program.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Payment is made by check upon presenting satisfactory evidence of cost of feed
  purchased and determining program eligibility.
Reports:
  There are no reports due for post assistance requirements under this program.
Audits:
  Recipients under these programs are subject to audit by the Office of the
  Regional Inspector General, USDA.
Records:
  Owners, dealers, handlers, and warehousemen shall retain financial books and
  records that permit verification of all transactions for at least 3 years following
  the end of the calendar year in which assistance is provided.
Account Identification:
  12-4336-0-1-351.
Obligations:
  (Direct Cash Payments: American Indian Livestock Feed Program) FY 07 $0;
  FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Procedural handbooks are available in county FSA offices.
Regional or Local Office:
  Consult the local telephone directory for location of the nearest county FSA
  office. If no listing, contact the appropriate State FSA office.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, Emergency and Noninsured
  Assistance Program Division, STOP 0526, 1400 Independence Avenue S.W.,
  Washington, DC 20250-0526. Telephone: (202) 720-3168.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.450, Crop Insurance; 10.054, Emergency Conservation Program; 10.404,
  Emergency Loans.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  There are no funded projects related to this program.
                                                                                        79
