CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
10.454 DAIRY OPTIONS PILOT PROGRAM                                                    
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY (RMA), DEPARTMENT OF                                         
  AGRICULTURE                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, Title I; Agricultural       
  Market Transition Act, Subtitle H, Public Law 104-127; Agricultural Risk            
  Protection Act of 2000, Public Law 106-224.                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The purpose of the Dairy Options Pilot Program (DOPP) is to educate dairy           
  producers in the use of options contracts as risk management tools and to           
  ascertain the usefulness of options to dairy producers in various regional          
  markets.                                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds will be used to share the cost of premium for 'put' options purchased by      
  DOPP participants and for a portion of the brokers' fees to conduct and execute     
  transactions. Funds may be used to purchase only 'put' options on milk futures      
  contracts. Other discretionary expenses will be incurred by RMA to operate the      
  program such as those associated with the DOPP's required training sessions.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  To be eligible for any benefits under this program, applicants must be dairy        
  farmers (i.e., an individual, entity, or joint operation, which as owner, operator, 
  landlord, tenant, or sharecropper is entitled to share in the production available  
  for marketing from the dairy farm, or share in the proceeds thereof) who: (1) Are   
  eligible for a production flexibility contract, a marketing assistance loan or any  
  other assistance under Title I of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and           
  Reform Act of 1996; (2) volunteer to participate in this program; (3) operate a     
  dairy farm located in a county selected for the pilot program; and (4) have         
  documented production history of at least 100,000 pounds of production over         
  any consecutive 6-month period during the most recent 12 months.                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Dairy farmers.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Dairy farmers must certify that they are eligible for the DOPP and that their farm  
  produced at least 100,000 pounds of milk over a consecutive 6-month period          
  during the most recent 12 months.                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The DOPP application and participation agreement materials include Form             
  CCC-320 and a brochure explaining DOPP, along with instructions.                    
  Consultation or assistance is available from RMA and from extension agents to

  aid in preparing these forms. No informal preapplication consultation is            
  necessary. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  The DOPP application materials will be mailed to producers in counties where        
  the program operates.

Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Each round of the program will last up to 12 months for each participant and        
  operate for up to 3 years in each pilot county.                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Farmers have one month after the county official training date to return their      
  signed application and a copy of their production records to RMA.                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Farmers should expect a response within 3 weeks of RMA's receipt of their           
  applications.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The program has no statutory formula. The proposed cost-sharing arrangement         
  between RMA and participating dairy farmers calls for RMA to pay for 80             
  percent of premiums and up to $30 in broker fees for each options contract          
  purchased under the DOPP. The farmer pays for 20 percent of the premium and         
  any broker fees in excess of $30 per contract. This program has no matching         
  requirements for State and local governments.                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  This assistance is available to farmers in selected counties from the date          
  application materials are mailed to farmers in those counties until all options     
  have been liquidated. All DOPP options must be purchased within 4 months of         
  the date of the training session in each county. The assistance is paid to the      
  farmer's broker on behalf of the farmer on a transaction-by- transaction basis.     
Reports:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Audits:                                                                               


80                                                                              11-08

  RMA's Office of Risk Compliance will conduct random audits of participating
  producers' and brokers' trading activity to verify compliance with the DOPP
  agreements.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  12-4336-0-3-351.
Obligations:
  (Direct payments) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In DOPP Round I, 1,450 dairy producers were trained; 428 of those dairy
  producers bought 1,700 milk put options. During DOPP Round II, 1,226 dairy
  producers were trained; 129 of those dairy producers bought 310 milk put
  options due to low prices. An increased number of dairy producers attended
  training during Round III; 790 of those dairy producers bought 2,816 milk put
  options.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Brochure - "Got Options? Announcing the Dairy Options Pilot Program".
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Risk Management Agency, Stop #0808, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW.,
  Washington, DC 20250. Contact: Lee Ziegler, Telephone: (202) 690-0520.
  Fax: (202) 690-3605. E-mail: rma.options@wdc.usda.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rma.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The program was operated to fund milk put options purchases for dairy
  producers in 38 counties in a total of seven States during the original Round of
  DOPP (Round I). The program operated between 6 to 8 months in each State.
  For Round II, the program was expanded to include 61 new counties and
  included a total of 32 States. None of the original (Round I) counties were
  chosen to participate in Round II of the program. DOPP Round III was piloted
  in 275 counties and 39 states during FY 2001. An additional 25 counties were
  chosen by the Secretary of Agriculture for implementation during FY 2002.
  Counties from Rounds I, II, and III are included in the 300 total counties in 40
  states during FY 2002 because DOPP will continue to operate in these counties,
  as directed by Congress.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
10.455 COMMUNITY OUTREACH AND ASSISTANCE
PARTNERSHIP PROGRAM
   (RMA Community Outreach and Assistance Partnership Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended 7 U.S.C. 1522(d).
OBJECTIVES:
  To ensure that women, limited resource, socially disadvantaged and other
  traditionally underserved producers of priority commodities are provided
  information and training necessary to use financial management, crop insurance,
  marketing contracts, and other existing and emerging risk management tools.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Information; Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Recipients will use funds to develop and implement a community outreach
  program to women, limited resource, socially disadvantaged and other
  traditionally underserved producers of priority commodities. Community
  outreach must create awareness and use of risk management tools; and educate
  audience on how to use risk management tools to mitigate risks associated with
  farming. Applicants may propose additional use of funds that are creative and
  non traditional in reaching agricultural producers. RMA will be substantially
  involved in the project. Funds may not be used to plan, repair, rehabilitate,
  acquire or construct a building or facility including a processing facility;
  purchase, rent or install fixed equipment; repair or maintain privately owned
  vehicles; pay for preparation of the partnership agreement application; fund
  political activities; pay costs incurred prior to receiving a partnership agreement;
  or fund any activity prohibited in 7 CFR Parts 3015 and 3019, as applicable.
  Indirect costs are limited to ten percent of total direct costs of the funded project.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicant Eligibility Includes educational institutions, community based
  organizations, associations of farmers, ranchers and other nonprofit
