  organizations with demonstrated capabilities in developing and implementing        
  risk management and other marketing options for priority commodities.              
  Individuals are not eligible applicants. To be eligible, applicants must also be   
  able to demonstrate that they will receive a non-financial benefit as a result of a
  partnership agreement. Non-financial benefits must accrue to the applicant and     
  must include more than the ability to provide employment income to the             
  applicant or for the applicant's employees or the community. The applicant must    
  demonstrate that performance under the partnership agreement will further the      
  specific mission of the applicant (such as providing research or activities        
  necessary for graduate or other students to complete their educational program.    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Women, limited resource, traditionally under served and socially disadvantaged     
  producers of priority commodities.                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.            
Application Procedure:                                                               
  All Applicants must submit applications in compliance with the criteria outlined

  in the Request for Applications (RFA) by the deadline specified in the Notice.     
  Applicants are encouraged to submit completed and signed application packages

  using overnight mail or delivery service to ensure timely receipt by the USDA.

                                                                                     
  Program application materials may be downloaded from the RMA website at:           
  www: rma.usda.gov. Applicants may also request application materials from          
  Marie Buchanan, Telephone: (202) 690-2686, Fax: (202) 690-2496, Email:             
  Marie.Buchanan@usda.gov.                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Awards under this program will be made on a competitive basis for projects of      
  up to one year. Each application will be reviewed and rated by a diverse panel     
  based on the evaluation criteria contained in the RFA. Projects will be funded in  
  final rank order until all available funds have been expended. Applicants must     
  score at least 50 points or more to be considered for funding. The award           
  instrument is a Partnership Agreement between the Risk Management Agency           
  and the Applicant. No maximum or minimum funding levels have been                  
  established for individual projects or geographic locations.                       
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Completed and signed application packages must be submitted by the closing         
  date specified in the Notice. Applications received after the deadline will not be 
  evaluated By the technical review panel.                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  All awards will be made and agreements completed no later than September 30.       
  Applicants that are not funded will be notified within 90 days after the receipt of
  applications.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                             
  Informal appeals can be addressed within 30 days from the date of notification     
  to William Buchanan, Director, Civil Rights and Community Outreach, 1400           
  Independence Ave., SW, Washington, DC.                                             
Renewals:                                                                            
  The project period is one year; there are no renewals under this program.          
  Applicants must reapply each year.                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Applicants awarded partnership agreements require a match of ten (10) percent      
  of the award amount. The applicant's contribution must be from nonfederal          
  funds and can be cash or in-kind.                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Projects will be funded for a period of up to one year from the project starting   
  date for the activities described in the announcement.                             
Reports:                                                                             
  Applicants awarded partnership agreements will be required to submit quarterly     
  progress and financial status reports (OMB Stand Ford 269) throughout the          
  project period, as well as a comprehensive final report and financial report not   
  later than 90 days after the end of the project period.                            
Audits:                                                                              
  Recipients are subject to audit by the Office of the Inspector General, USDA, as   
  set forth in OMB Circular No. A-133, or in Federal Acquisition Regulations.        
Records:                                                                             
  The recipient will maintain at its place of business all records required by the   
  partnership agreement and the respective OMB Circulars.                            
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-4085-0-3-351.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $5,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Projects funded range from $5,000 to $300,000. The average is $75,000.

                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                     
  This program is announced as a Request for Applications in the Federal Register

                                                                                     
  and the RMA web site, along with specific information on obtaining an

                                                                                     
  application package.

                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
Regional or Local Office:
  RMA has ten Regional Offices serving potential applicants. A listing may be
  obtained from the RMA web site or RMA Headquarters.
Headquarters Office:
  Department of Agriculture, Risk Management Agency, Community Outreach
  and Assistance Partnership Program, 1400 Independence Ave., SW, Stop 0805,
  Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 690-2686. E-mail:
  http://www.rma.usda.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rma.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A complete listing of projects funded under this program is provided on the
  RMA web site, or may be obtained by contacting RMA Headquarters.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria used by the application review panel for recommending awards are
  listed in the Request for Applications.
10.456 PARTNERSHIP AGREEMENTS TO DEVELOP NON-
INSURANCE RISK MANAGEMENT TOOLS FOR
PRODUCERS (FARMERS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  THE FEDERAL CROP INSURANCE CORPORATION (FCIC), OPERATING
  THROUGH THE RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY (RMA), DEPARTMENT
  OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Crop Insurance Act, 7 U.S.C. 1501, et. seq.), Section 522(d);
  Agricultural Market Transition Act, 7 U.S.C. 7333.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop risk management tools (risk management tools do not include
  insurance products, plans of insurances, policies, modifications thereof or any
  related material) for the U. S. agriculture producers with an emphasis on
  specialty crop(s) producers, livestock producers, rangeland producers and
  producers of underserved commodities currently covered by section 196 of the
  Agricultural Market Transition Act (7 U.S.C. 733).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The availability of research partnership monies (variable) is announced on a
  yearly basis. The partnership agreements are for the development of non-
  insurance risk management tools for use directly by agricultural producers.
  Each partnership agreement recipient must demonstrate non-financial benefits
  from the partnership agreement and the partner must agree to substantial
  involvement of RMA in the project. Indirect costs must be limited to ten percent
  of the total direct costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Proposals are invited from all qualified public and private entities. Eligible
  applicants include all colleges and universities, Federal, State, local government
  agencies, Native American Tribal Organizations, nonprofit and for-profit private
  organizations or corporations, and other entities. Individuals are not eligible
  applicants.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The research partnerships will result in the development of non-insurance risk
  management tools to be utilized by agricultural producers to assist them in
  mitigating the risks inherent in agricultural production.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Although an applicant may be eligible to compete for an award based on its
  status as an eligible entity, other facts may exclude an applicant from receiving
  Federal assistance under this program (e.g., debarment and suspension; a
  determination of non-performance on a prior contract, cooperative agreement,
  grant or partnership; a determination of a violation of applicable ethical
  standards).
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  This program is subject (as applicable) to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos.
  A-21, A-87, A-102, A-110, A-122, A-133 and FAR, Part 31. Eligible applicants
  submit proposals according to published guidelines (generally in the Federal
  Register). Objectives will vary for the research proposals solicited and funded
  each year. Application procedures and guidelines may change each year. See the
  yearly Request for Applications (RFA) for specific guidelines.
Award Procedure:
  Project funds for successful applicants are awarded to recipients based upon a
  merit review (panel) of all applications that meet the objectives outlined in the
  RFA announcement. The evaluation of each application will be conducted by a
  panel of not less than three independent reviewers. The panel will be comprised
  of representatives from USDA, other federal agencies, and others representing
  public and private organizations, as needed. The panel will examine and score
                                                                                       81
