  applications based on the evaluation criteria and weights contained in the RFA.     
  After assigning points based upon the evaluation criteria and weights,              
  recommended applications will be listed in rank order and presented, along with     
  funding level recommendations, to the Manager of FCIC, who will make the            
  final selection and funding decisions.                                              
Deadlines:                                                                            
  As specified in the RFA.                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 30 180 days as specified in the RFA.                                           
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Renewal possible depending upon agency review and needs.                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula other than the general yearly funding         
  availability established under section 522(e)(A) of the Federal Crop Insurance      
  Act. This program has no matching requirements.                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Each approved project will be funded for a period of up to three years for the      
  activities described in the RFA. Projects can also be in two parts with the first   
  part including the research and feasibility studies and the second part including   
  the development, implementation, delivery and maintenance of the non-               
  insurance risk management tool. If the development of the tool is determined        
  not to be feasible, the partnership may be terminated by RMA after completion       
  of the first part, with funding reduced accordingly.                                
Reports:                                                                              
  All partnership recipients will submit progress and financial reports throughout    
  the project period as specified in the partnership agreement as well as a final     
  program and financial report not later than 90 days after the end of the mutually   
  agreed upon project period.                                                         
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,        
  non-federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year except as noted     
  in OMB Circular No. A-123.                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, supporting documentation, statistical records and all other      
  records pertinent to the partnership agreement must be retained for a period of at  
  least 3 years after closing.                                                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-4085-0-3-351.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Partnerships) FY 07 $4,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not         
  reported.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not available.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Not available.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Information concerning the Risk Management Agency and associated

                                                                                      
  publications can be obtained using the public website at:                           
  http://www.rma.usda.gov.                                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Risk Management Agency, Stop 0813, 6501 Beacon Drive, Kansas City, MO               
  64133-4676. Telephone: (816) 926-6343. Fax: (816) 926-7343. E-mail:                 
  www.RMARED.Applications@rma.usda.gov.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                      
  http://www.rma.usda.gov.

                                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                      
  10.455, Community Outreach and Assistance Partnership Program; 10.457,

                                                                                      
  Commodity Partnerships for Risk Management Education; 10.458, Crop

                                                                                      
  Insurance Education in Targeted States; 10.459, Commodity Partnerships for

                                                                                      
  Small Agricultural Risk Management Education Sessions.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

  FY 03: http://www.rma.usda.gov/news/2003/10/03rdtable.html .                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Evaluation criteria are specified in the Request for Application.                   
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
10.457 COMMODITY PARTNERSHIPS FOR RISK                                                
MANAGEMENT EDUCATION                                                                  
                                                                                      
     (Commodity Partnerships)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                      
  RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                                                                                      


82                                                                              11-08

AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended. 7 U.S.C. 1522(d).
OBJECTIVES:
  To deliver training and information in the management of production,
  marketing, and financial risk to U.S. agricultural producers, with a priority to
  producers of crops not insurable with federal crop insurance, specialty crops,
  and underserved commodities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Entities receiving funding will use funds to (a) plan a local program of risk
  management education for agricultural producers, (b) develop and assemble
  instructional materials, (c) promote awareness for risk management and
  educational opportunities, (d) deliver educational activities to agricultural
  producers and agribusiness professionals, and (e) document project activities.
  Applicants may propose additional uses of funds that meet the objectives of the
  program. RMA will be substantially involved in the management and direction
  of the project. Indirect costs allowed for projects submitted under this program
  will be limited to ten percent of total direct costs of the partnership agreement.
  Funds may not be used to (a) plan, repair, rehabilitate, acquire, or construct a
  building or facility including a processing facility; (b) purchase, rent, or install
  fixed equipment; (c) repair or maintain privately owned vehicles; (d) pay the for
  preparation of the partnership agreement application; (e) fund political activities;
  (f) pay costs incurred prior to receiving a partnership agreement (g) pay for
  alcohol, food, beverage, or entertainment; or (h) fund any activity prohibited in 7
  CFR Parts 3015 and 3019, as applicable.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants include State departments of agriculture, universities, non-
  profit agricultural organizations, and other public or private organizations with
  the capacity to lead a local program of risk management education for farmers
  and ranchers in an RMA Region. Individuals are not eligible applicants.
  Although an applicant may be eligible to compete for an award based on its
  status as an eligible entity, other factors may exclude an applicant from receiving
  federal assistance under this program (e.g. debarment and suspension; a
  determination of non-performance on a prior contract, cooperative agreement,
  grant or partnership; a determination of a violation of applicable ethical
  standards).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The ultimate beneficiaries of this education program are agricultural producers,
  with a priority for producers of crops not insurable by Federal crop insurance,
  specialty crops, and underserved commodities. Applicants receiving awards will
  ensure that such producers receive effective risk management education and
  information either directly or through agribusiness professionals that can impart
  risk management information to producers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must demonstrate the capacity to deliver risk management education
  and information programs to producers in the written narratives and statements
  of work that accompany applications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  No preapplication coordination with governmental or nongovernmental units is
  required prior to the submission of a formal application. This program is
  excluded under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Eligible applicants must complete and submit a valid application to RMA
  Headquarters by the application deadline. Requirements for a complete
  application package and the application deadline are set forth in the Request for
  Applications. Eligible applicants will also be able to apply electronically using
  www.Grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Each application will be evaluated using a two-part process. First, each
  application will be screened by RMA personnel to ensure that it meets the
  requirements listed in the Request for Applications announcement. Second, a
  review panel will consider the merits of all applications that meet the
  requirements in the announcement. The panel will examine and score
  applications based on the evaluation criteria contained in the Request for
  Applications. Other review panel information is provided in the Request for
  Applications announcement. Following its review, the panel will report to the
  Manager of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) with a listing of the
  recommended applicants to receive partnership agreements. The Manager of
  FCIC will make the final determination on applications that will be awarded
  funding.
Deadlines:
  The application due date is indicated in the Request for Applications notice and
  www.Grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally about 120 days from the deadline listed in the Request for
  Applications.
Appeals:
  No provision is provided in this program for an appeal.
Renewals:
