  No provision is provided in this program for a renewal.                          
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  The Request for Applications contains specifics on the limits of funding         
  availability for individual projects. Although RMA prefers matching funds, this  
  program has no matching requirement.                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Funding will normally be available for projects that will begin in July through  
  September and will continue for up to one year.                                  
Reports:                                                                           
  Quarterly performance reports are required which document project progress. In   
  addition, a comprehensive final report is required which documents all           
  educational activity conducted within the partnership project.                   
Audits:                                                                            
  Recipients are subject to audit by the Office of the Inspector General, USDA, as 
  set forth in OMB Circular No. A-133, or in Federal Acquisition Regulations.      
Records:                                                                           
  The recipient will maintain at its place of business all records required by the 
  partnership agreement and the respective OMB Circulars.                          
Account Identification:                                                            
  12-4085-0-3-351.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 07 $4,623,766; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not available.                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  None.                                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  FY 2007 funds provided direct risk management training to approximately          
  30,000 agricultural producers and assist in raising risk management awareness    
  to the larger agricultural community.

                                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  This program is announced as a Request for Applications in the Federal           
  Register, www.Grants.gov, and the RMA web site, along with specific              
  information on obtaining an application package.

                                                                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  RMA has ten Regional Offices nationwide serving potential applicants. A          
  listing may be obtained from the RMA web site or RMA Headquarters.               
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Risk Management Agency, Risk Management Education Division, Department           
  of Agriculture, Stop 0808, 1400 Independence Ave. S.W., Washington, DC           
  20250-0808. Telephone: (202) 720-5265. E-mail: rma.risk-ed@rma.usda.gov.         
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.rma.usda.gov.

                                                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                   
  10.455, Community Outreach and Assistance Partnership Program; 10.456,

                                                                                   
  Partnership Agreements to Develop Non- Insurance Risk Management Tools for

                                                                                   
  Producers (Farmers); 10.458, Crop Insurance Education in Targeted States;

                                                                                   
  10.459, Commodity Partnerships for Small Agricultural Risk Management

                                                                                   
  Education Sessions.

                                                                                   
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                   
  A complete listing of projects funded under this program is provided on the

                                                                                   
  RMA web site, or may be obtained by contacting RMA Headquarters.

                                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                   
  Criteria used by the application review panel for recommending awards are

                                                                                   
  listed in the Request for Applications.

                                                                                   
                                                                                   
10.458 CROP INSURANCE EDUCATION IN TARGETED                                        
STATES                                                                             
                                                                                   
   (Targeted States)                                                               
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  RISK MANAGEMENT AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Federal Crop Insurance Act, as amended. 7 U.S.C. 1524(a).                        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  The purpose of this cooperative agreement program is to deliver crop insurance   
  education and information to U.S. agricultural producers in certain, designated  
  States that have been historically underserved with respect to crop insurance.   
  The States, collectively referred to as Targeted States, are Connecticut,        
  Delaware, Maine, Maryland, Massachusetts, Nevada, New Hampshire, New             
  Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Utah, Vermont, West Virginia,      
  and Wyoming.                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Cooperative Agreements.                                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  Entities receiving funding will use funds to (a) plan a local program of crop    
  insurance education for agricultural producers, (b) develop and assemble         
  instructional materials, (c) promote awareness for crop insurance and            
  educational opportunities, (d) deliver crop insurance educational activities to  
  agricultural producers and agribusiness professionals, and (e) document project  
  activities. Applicants may propose additional uses of funds that meet the        


                                                                              11-08
  objectives of the program. RMA will be substantially involved in the
  management and direction of the project. Indirect costs allowed for projects
  submitted under this program will be limited to ten percent of total direct costs
  of the cooperative agreement. Funds may not be used to (a) plan, repair,
  rehabilitate, acquire, or construct a building or facility including a processing
  facility; (b) purchase, rent, or install fixed equipment; (c) repair or maintain
  privately owned vehicles; (d) pay for the preparation of the partnership
  agreement application; (e) fund political activities; (f) purchase alcohol, food,
  beverage, or entertainment; (g) pay costs incurred prior to receiving a
  partnership agreement; or (g) fund any activity prohibited in 7 CFR Parts 3015
  and 3019, as applicable.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants include State departments of agriculture, universities, non-
  profit agricultural organizations, and other public or private organizations with
  the capacity to lead a local program of crop insurance education for farmers and
  ranchers in a Targeted State. Individuals are eligible applicants. Although an
  applicant may be eligible to compete for an award based on its status as an
  eligible entity, other factors may exclude an applicant from receiving federal
  assistance under this program (e.g. debarment and suspension; a determination
  of non-performance on a prior contract, cooperative agreement, grant or
  partnership; a determination of a violation of applicable ethical standards).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The ultimate beneficiaries of this education program are agricultural producers
  in the Targeted States. Applicants receiving awards will ensure that such
  producers receive effective crop insurance education and information either
  directly or through agribusiness professionals that can impart crop insurance
  information to producers.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must demonstrate the capacity to deliver crop insurance education
  and information programs to producers in the written narratives and statements
  of work that accompany applications.
Preapplication Coordination:
  No preapplication coordination with governmental or nongovernmental units is
  required prior to the submission of a formal application. This program is
  excluded under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Eligible applicants must complete and submit a valid application to RMA
  Headquarters by the application deadline. Requirements for a complete
  application package and the application deadline are set forth in the Request for
  Applications. Eligible applicants will also be able to apply electronically using
  www.Grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Each application will be evaluated using a two-part process. First, each
  application will be screened by RMA personnel to ensure that it meets the
  requirements listed in the Request for Applications announcement. Second, a
  review panel will consider the merits of all applications that meet the
  requirements in the announcement. The panel will examine and score
  applications based on the evaluation criteria contained in the Request for
  Applications. Other review panel information is provided in the Request for
  Applications announcement. Following its review, the panel will report to the
  Manager of the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation (FCIC) with a listing of the
  recommended applicants to receive cooperative agreements. The Manager of
  FCIC will make the final determination on applications that will be awarded
  funding.
Deadlines:
  The application due date is indicated in the Request for Applications notice and
  www.Grants.gov.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally about 120 days from the deadline listed in the Request for
  Applications.
Appeals:
  No provision is provided in this program for an appeal.
Renewals:
  No provision is provided in this program for a renewal.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Request for Applications contains specifics on the limits of funding
  availability for individual projects. Although RMA prefers matching funds, this
  program has no matching requirement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funding will normally be available for projects that will begin in July through
  September and will continue for up to one year.
Reports:
  Quarterly performance reports are required which document project progress. In
  addition, a comprehensive final report is required which documents all
  educational activity conducted within the partnership project.
Audits:
  Recipients are subject to audit by the Office of the Inspector General, USDA, as
  set forth in OMB Circular No. A-133, or in Federal Acquisition Regulations.
Records:
  The recipient will maintain at its place of business all records required by the
                                                                                      83
