  General public (meat, poultry, and egg products.)                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  A request for inspection should be submitted to the Meat, Poultry and Egg          
  Products Inspection District Office, or to the Administrator.                      
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Certification is made that the applicant meets the regulations on sanitation, and  
  operating standards for the inspection of meat, poultry and egg products plant     
  facilities and equipment.                                                          
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  Not applicable.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

  12-3700-0-1-554; 12-8137-0-7-352.                                                  
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Salaries and expenses for Account 12-3700-0-1-554); FY 07 $840,906,692; FY        
  08 est 877,945,000; and FY 09 est not reported. (Salaries and expenses for         
  Account 12-8137-0-7-352) FY 07 $6,642,000; FY 08 est $6,841,000; and FY            
  09 est not reported.                                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal year 2006, the program inspected operations at about 6,300               
  establishments which produced about 107.9 billion pounds of meat, poultry and      
  egg products. The scope of program operations in fiscal years 2007 and 2008        
  will be similar.                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  MPI-7, Meat and Poultry Inspection Manual; Sanitation Handbook; 9 CFR 301-         
  592, Inspection Regulations.                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for a list of addresses of the District Offices.    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Assistant Administrator, Field Operations, Food Safety and Inspection Service,     
  Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Contact: Kenneth Petersen.        
   Telephone: (202) 720-8803. (Use the same number for FTS.)                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.fsis.usda.gov.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  10.475, Cooperative Agreements with States for Intrastate Meat and Poultry         
  Inspection.                                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
10.479 FOOD SAFETY COOPERATIVE AGREEMENTS                                            
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FOOD SAFETY AND INSPECTION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
  AGRICULTURE                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Law 108-7,Section 713, 117 Statute 39; Public Law 108-447; H.R.             
  Conference Report 108-792.                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To reduce the incidence of foodborne illnesses associated with meat, poultry,      
  and egg products and to protect the food supply. FSIS is authorized to use         
  cooperative agreements to reflect a relationship between FSIS and cooperators to   
  carry out educational programs or special studies to improve the safety of the     
  nation's food supply. Also, FSIS has been directed to further develop the Food     
  Emergency Response Network, a network of Federal, state and local laboratories     
  that provides the nation the analytic capabilities and capacity it needs to cope   
  with agents threatening the food supply.                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 


86                                                                             11-08

  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Available discretionary funds are contingent on annual appropriations. Work
  products, where appropriate, are to be made available for use by other
  government agencies and accessible by the general public.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State, local and tribal government agencies; academic institutions and non-profit
  organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Academic institutions; State, local and tribal government agencies; and non-
  profit organizations are invited to submit brief proposals (two to four pages) for
  cooperative agreements in any of the areas described in the request for proposals
  along with an SF-424. These proposals will be reviewed by FSIS. The criteria
  used by FSIS to assess proposals are listed for each cooperative agreement
  program area in the request for proposals. Cooperators whose proposals are
  selected for further project development will need to discuss and reach
  agreement with FSIS on project details to permit establishment of a cooperative
  agreement. Unlike typical Federal grants, cooperative agreements involve a
  Federal agency's active participation with the cooperator during both project
  development and project execution. Work products, where appropriate, are to be
  made available for use by other government agencies and accessible by the
  general public. All proposals should address the following points: * Project
  description, including specific goals, timeline, and deliverables; * Description of
  national public benefit expected, including expected utility of work products, for
  example, training manuals, CDs, and videos; * Projected costs, including
  cooperator contributions; * Projected performance measures; * Primary contact,
  principal investigator, and other likely participants, and; * All work products
  may be freely reproduced and distributed by FSIS.
Award Procedure:
  Cooperative agreement awards are made upon selection through a competitive
  process directed by the relevant FSIS program area. The program area identifies
  the awardees to the FSIS Administrative Services Division, which prepares and
  executes required documentation.
Deadlines:
  Refer to the request for proposals for the applicable fiscal year which is
  advertised annually in the federal register and at
  www.fsis.usda.gov/About_FSIS/Cooperative_Agreements/.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally from 30 to 90 days from the deadline listed in the request for
  proposals.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Renewals or extensions may be available under extraordinary circumstances if
  approved prior to the closing date of the initial agreements.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, funding will be available for projects up to one year. Multi-year
  projects will be considered, but they are subject to annual renewal and may be
  affected by changes in FSIS' annual budget.
Reports:
  The cooperative agreement will specify the frequency of submission of
  performance progress reports, which will not be more frequently than quarterly
  or less frequently than annually. Also, a comprehensive final report is required
  which documents all activities conducted within the partnership project.
Audits:
  Recipients are subject to audit by the Office of the Inspector General, USDA, as
  set forth in OMB Circular No. A-133, or in Federal Acquisition Regulations.
Records:
  The recipient will maintain at its place of business all records required by the
  partnership agreement and the applicable OMB Circulars.
Account Identification:
  12-3700-0-1-554.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  FY 07 $12,000 to $100,000; $52,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The projects funded in fiscal year 2005 are expected to make demonstrable
  improvements in public health by promoting science-based reductions in the
  incidence of foodborne disease and other hazards associated with meat, poultry,
  and egg products, and to enhance food defenses through improved State and
