REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  7 CFR 271-282. Available from the national office and the regional offices:       
  "Facts About the Food Stamp Program, "PA-1340 (English) and PA-1340-S             
  (Spanish); "Official Food List," FNS-110 (English), FNS-110-S (Spanish), FNS-     
  110-K (Korean), FNS-110-V (Vietnamese), FNS-110 (English/Chinese), FNS-           
  110-Alaska; FNS-136 EBT Do's and Don'ts/Penalties for Violations of the FSP;      
  "USDA Food Assistance" (poster) FNS-200, fns-200-S (Spanish); "USDA Food          
  Assistance" (flyer), FNS-182 (English), FNS-182-S (Spanish); Food Stamp           
  Rights Poster, FNS-183 (English) and FNS-183-S (Spanish); Using Food              
  Stamps Poster, FNS-283 (English) and FNS-283-S (Spanish); Team Nutrition          
  Series of flyers (English/Spanish); "We Accept Food Stamps" (poster), FNS-        
  132; "We Accept Food Stamps" (decal); FNS-1325, "We Accept Food Stamps"           
  (Spanish), (poster and decal); FNS-240 (English) Report Abuse Poster.             
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  See the Food and Nutrition Service Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of      
  the Catalog.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Associate Administrator, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, Food and      
  Nutrition Service, Department of Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Contact:      
  Jessica Shahin, Acting Associate Administrator, Supplemental Nutrition            
  Assistance Program. Telephone: (703) 305-2026. Use the same number for FTS.       
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.fns.usda.gov/fsp/                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  None.                                                                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  None.                                                                             
                                                                                    
10.553 SCHOOL BREAKFAST PROGRAM                                                     
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1773, 1779, Public Laws

                                                                                    
  104-193, 100-435, 99-661, 97-35.                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To assist States in providing a nutritious nonprofit breakfast service for school

                                                                                    
  children, through cash grants and food donations.                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Formula Grants.

                                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                    
  Federally appropriated School Breakfast Program funds are available to

                                                                                    
  reimburse participating public and nonprofit private schools, of high school      
  grade and under and residential child care institutions, for breakfasts, meeting  
  the nutritional requirements prescribed by the Secretary of Agriculture, served to
  eligible children. The rates of reimbursement are adjusted on an annual basis to  
  reflect changes in the Food Away From Home series of the Consumer Price           
  Index for all Urban Consumers. For the period July 1, 2007 through June 30,       
  2008, the rates of reimbursement are 24.0 cents for paid breakfasts, 105.0 cents  
  for each reduced price breakfast, and 135.0 cents for each free breakfast. The    
  maximum reduced price charged for breakfast is 30 cents. Schools serving 40       
  percent or more free and reduced price lunches in the second preceding school     
  year get up to 131.0 cents and 161.0 cents for each breakfast served to children  
  qualifying, respectively, for a reduced price and a free breakfast. All           
  participating schools must agree to serve free and reduced price meals to eligible
  children, and to operate the program on a nonprofit basis for all children        
  regardless of race, sex, color, National origin, age, or disability. Federal      
  program funds for the School Breakfast Program are provided to each State         
  agency in a Child Nutrition block grant along with program funds for the          
  National School Lunch Program, the Special Milk Program for Children, the         
  Summer Food Service Program for Children, and the Child and Adult Care Food       
  Program. Congress has given some leeway to States to determine how this block     
  of money will actually be allocated among these programs at the State level

                                                                                    
  based on program needs.                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  State and U.S. Territory agencies; (except territories subject to the requirements
  to the Compact of Free Association) public and nonprofit private schools of high  
  school grade and under; public and nonprofit private residential child care       
  institutions, except Job Corps Centers. Schools desiring to participate must      
  agree to operate a nonprofit breakfast program that is available to all children  
  regardless of race, sex, color, National origin, age, or disability.              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  All children attending schools where the breakfast program is operating may       
  participate. Breakfast is served free to children who are determined by local     
  educational agencies to have household income levels at or below 130 percent,     
  and at a reduced price to children from households with incomes higher than       
  130 but at or below 185 percent of the federal poverty line, respectively. Meals  
  served to non-needy children also get cash assistance. Such determinations are    


                                                                               11-08
  made in accordance with income eligibility guidelines prescribed by the
  Secretary and cross reference household income with household size. The
  Secretary prescribes these income eligibility guidelines by July 1; the statistical
  source used in making such revisions is the Federal Income Poverty Guidelines.
  Children from households certified to receive food stamps, the Food Distribution
  Program on Indian Reservations, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families and
  some children in Head Start Programs are automatically eligible for free meals.
  Homeless children, children in certain runaway and homeless youth grant
  programs, and migrant children are automatically eligible for free meals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicant organizations must furnish evidence of nonprofit status. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations
  (7 CFR Part 3015 or 3016 and 3019).
Preapplication Coordination:
  The application forms as furnished by the State agency or FNS, as applicable,
  must be used for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance.
Application Procedure:
  Public schools in all States make application to the State Educational Agency
  unless the State applies or is approved for a waiver to designate an alternate
  agency. Appropriate forms may be obtained from this agency. Nonprofit
  private schools should also apply to the State Educational Agency in most
  States. In some States, however, the State Educational Agency is prohibited by
  statute from disbursing Federal funds to nonprofit private schools. In such
  instances, the application will be referred to the alternate State agency or the
  appropriate Food and Nutrition Service regional office.
Award Procedure:
  When application is approved, schools make agreements with appropriate
  agency.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section
  below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Agreements become effective upon approval by the State Agency or FNSRO,
  where applicable.
Appeals:
  None. The State Agency or Food and Nutrition Service regional office, where
  applicable, is responsible for determining a school's eligibility.
Renewals:
  Permanent, amended as necessary.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Federal funds are made available for breakfast assistance in accordance with
  Section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act on a performance basis by: (1) multiplying
  the number of paid breakfasts served to eligible children during the fiscal year
  by a National Average Payment (NAP); (2) multiplying the number of breakfasts
  served free to eligible children by a NAP prescribed by the Secretary for free
  breakfasts; and, (3) multiplying the number of reduced price breakfasts served to
  eligible children by a NAP prescribed by the Secretary for reduced-priced
  breakfasts. The amount of Federal funds given the grantee is the sum of the
  products obtained from these three computations, plus an additional 6 cents for
  every breakfast served. Schools with a high percentage of needy may receive
  additional payments. The statistical factors used in this formula are: (1) The
  NAP's; (2) the number of paid breakfasts served; and (3) the number of
  breakfasts served free or at reduced price to eligible children. The NAP's are
  prescribed by the Secretary and adjusted each July 1, in accordance with the
  Food Away From Home component of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban
  Consumers. The source of this adjustment factor is the Bureau of Labor
  Statistics. The source of the numbers of breakfasts served, including the number
  served free or at reduced price, is the monthly programmatic reports submitted to
  Food and Nutrition Service. This program has no maintenance of effort (MOE)
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  For the period covered by the agreement on a fiscal-year basis.
Reports:
  State Agencies, schools and institutions file monthly reports on the number of
  meals served, by type, to claim for reimbursement. Schools and institutions
  must submit final meal claims to the State no later than 60 days after claiming
  month. States must submit final program reports to Food and Nutrition Service
  no later than 90 days after the claiming month. States must submit a final fiscal
  year grant closeout report to the Food and Nutrition Service no later than 120
  days after the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," State and local
  governments, and non profit organizations that expended $500,000 or more
  under Federal awards within any fiscal year shall have either a single audit or (in
  certain cases) a program specific audit made for that year. Audits may be
                                                                                        89
