  conducted less frequently under conditions specified in OMB Circular A-133.           
Records:                                                                                
  Schools must maintain full and accurate records of the breakfast program. Such        
  records shall be retained for a period of 3 years after the end of the fiscal year to 
  which they pertain, except that if audit findings have not been resolved, records     
  shall be retained beyond the 3 year period until audit findings have been             
  resolved.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                                 
  12-3539-0-1-605.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,228,842,422; FY 08 est $2,367,186,000; and FY 09 est                
  $2,522,286,000.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Average Federal cash assistance for school year 2007 ranged from 24.0 to 157.0        
  cents per meal depending upon income levels of the individual participant and         
  upon the number of free and reduced price meals served by the school.                 
  Individual State grants vary according to participation in the program.               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  The number of schools and children participating in the breakfast program has         
  been increasing. In fiscal year 2007, over 1.71 billion breakfasts were served,       
  80.3 percent to needy children. School breakfasts must provide, over a school         
  week, 1/4 of the Recommended Dietary Allowances for key nutrients and 1/4 of          
  the calories needed by growing children. They also must conform to the                
  recommendations of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, including limitations        
  on calories from fat (no more than 30 percent of total calories) and saturated fat    
  (less than 10 percent of total calories).                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Regulations 7 CFR Part 220-School Breakfast Program regulations, 7 CFR Part           
  245-Determining Eligibility for Free and Reduced Price Meals and Free Milk in         
  Schools.                                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Headquarters Office Director, Child Nutrition Division, Food and Nutrition            
  Service, Department of Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Telephone: (703)            
  305-2590. Contact: Cynthia Long, Director.                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.fns.usda.gov/cnd.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  10.555, National School Lunch Program; 10.556, Special Milk Program for               
  Children; 10.557, Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants,          
  and Children; 10.558, Child and Adult Care Food Program; 10.559, Summer               
  Food Service Program for Children; 84.010, Title I Grants to Local Educational        
  Agencies.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  None.                                                                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  None.

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
10.555 NATIONAL SCHOOL LUNCH PROGRAM                                                    
                                                                                        
     (School Lunch Program)

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  National School Lunch Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1751 1760, 1779.                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To assist States, through cash grants and food donations, in making the school        
  lunch program available to school children and to encourage the domestic              
  consumption of nutritious agricultural commodities.                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Formula Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Federally appropriated National School Lunch Program funds are available to           
  each State agency to reimburse participating public and nonprofit private             
  schools, of high school grades or under, including residential child care             
  institutions, for lunches meeting the nutritional requirements prescribed by the      
  Secretary of Agriculture, served to eligible children. Schools meeting eligibility    
  criteria may be reimbursed for snacks served to children enrolled in eligible after   
  school hour care programs. Participating schools are reimbursed at rates that are     
  adjusted on an annual basis to reflect changes in the Food Away From Home             
  series of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers. For the period July       
  1, 2007, through June 30, 2008, the rates of reimbursement are 23.00 cents            
  general cash assistance for paid lunches, 207.00 cents reduced price lunches and      
  247.00 cents for each free lunch. The maximum reduced price charge for lunch          
  is 40 cents. Schools that served 60 percent or more free or reduced price lunches     
  in the second preceding school year received an additional 2 cents general cash       
  assistance for all lunches served. The reimbursement for snacks in after school       
  care programs is 68.00 cents for each free snacks, 34.00 cents for each reduced       
                                                                                        


90                                                                                11-08

  price snack and 6.00 cents for each paid snack. In addition to cash
  reimbursement, the national average value of donated commodities for each
  lunch is 18.75 cents, for the period July 1, 2007, through June 30, 2008, and is
  adjusted annually to reflect changes in the Price Index for Food Used in Schools
  and Institutions. All participating schools must agree to serve free and reduced
  price meals to eligible children. Federal program funds for the National School
  Lunch Program are provided to each State agency in a Child Nutrition block
  grant along with program funds for the School Breakfast Program, the Special
  Milk Program for Children, the Summer Food Service Program for Children, and
  the Child and Adult Care Food Program. Congress has given some leeway to
  States to determine how this block of money will actually be allocated among
  these programs at the State level based on program needs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and U.S. Territory agencies (except territories subject to the Compact of
  Free Association), public and nonprofit private schools of high school grade and
  under; public and nonprofit private residential child care institutions, except Job
  Corps Centers, residential summer camps that participate in the Summer Food
  Service Program for children and private foster homes. Schools and residential
  child care institutions desiring to participate must agree to operate a nonprofit
  food service that is available to all children regardless of race, sex, color,
  National origin, age, or disability.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All children enrolled in schools where the lunch program is operating may
  participate. Lunch is served free to children who are determined by local
  educational agencies to have household income levels at or below 130, and at a
  reduced price to children from households with incomes higher than 130 but at
  or below 185 percent of the poverty line respectively. Such determinations are
  made in accordance with income eligibility guidelines prescribed by the
  Secretary and cross reference household income with household size. The
  Secretary announces these income eligibility guidelines by July 1. The statistical
  source used in making such revisions is the Federal Income Poverty Guidelines.
  Children from households certified to receive food stamps, the Food Distribution
  Program on Indian Reservations, in most cases, Temporary Assistance for Needy
  Families and some children in Head Start Programs are automatically eligible for
  free meals. Homeless children, children in certain runaway and homeless youth
  grant programs, and migrant children are also automatically eligible for free
  meals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicant organizations must furnish evidence of nonprofit status. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations
  (7 CFR Part 3015 or 3016 and 3019).
Preapplication Coordination:
  The application forms as furnished by FNS or the State agency, as applicable,
  must be used for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O.
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should
  consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or
  her State for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in
  applying for assistance.
Application Procedure:
  Public schools in all States make application to the State educational agency
  unless the State applies and is approved for a waiver to designate an alternate
  agency. Appropriate forms may be obtained from this agency. Nonprofit private
  schools should also apply to the State educational agency in most States. In some
  States, however, the State educational agency is prohibited by statute from
  disbursing Federal funds to nonprofit private schools. In such instances, the
  application should be submitted to the alternate State agency or the appropriate
  Food and Nutrition Service regional office.
Award Procedure:
  The State agency, or Food and Nutrition Service Regional Office (FNSRO)
  where applicable, reviews the written application of a school or a residential
  child care institution and, upon determination of eligibility, makes a written
  agreement with the school or institution for participation in the program.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section
  below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Range of Approval/Disapproval Time Agreements become effective upon
  approval by the State agency or FNSRO, where applicable.
Appeals:
  None. The State agency or FNSRO, where applicable, is responsible for
  determining a school's eligibility.
Renewals:
  Permanent, amended as necessary.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The funding formula for the general cash for food assistance phase of the
  program is set forth in Section 4 of the National School Lunch Act, as amended;
  the formula for special cash assistance is described in Section 11 of the Act. The
  program is funded on a performance basis. For every lunch served during the
  applicable fiscal year, the State receives a payment from funds made available
  under Section 4. In addition, the State receives a payment from Section 11 funds
