  for each lunch served to a child eligible for free or reduced price lunches. The      
  amounts of such per-lunch payments are determined by "National Average                
  Payment" (NAP) factors. The amount due the State under this program is                
  obtained by: (1) multiplying the total number of eligible paid lunches and free       
  and reduced price lunches served during the fiscal year by the Section 4 NAP          
  factor for lunches; (2) multiplying the number of free lunches served by the          
  Section 11 NAP factor for free lunches; (3) multiplying the number of lunches         
  served at reduced price by the Section 11 NAP factor for reduced price lunches;       
  (4) multiplying the total number of lunches served during the fiscal year in          
  school food authorities which served 60 percent or more free or reduced price         
  lunches in the second preceding school year by $ .02; and (5) adding together         
  the four products obtained thereby. The NAP factors are prescribed by the

  Secretary in accordance with Sections 4 and 11, respectively, of the Act; the         
  numbers of lunches are obtained from programmatic reports submitted to Food

  and Nutrition Service. In addition, the funding formula for snacks in after school    
  care programs is described in Section 17 A of the Act. Section 11(a)(3) of the        
  Act requires that the NAP factors be adjusted annually, according to changes in       
                                                                                        
  the Food Away From Home series of the Consumer Price Index for All Urban

                                                                                        
  Consumers; the source is the Bureau of Labor Statistics. Each State must

                                                                                        
  appropriate from State revenues and use, for program purposes, an amount equal

                                                                                        
  to 30 percent of the Section 4 funds made available to the State in the 1980-81

                                                                                        
  school year. Also, commodity schools are eligible to receive donated

                                                                                        
  commodities equal in value to the sum of section 6 and section 4 assistance           
  rates, except that up to 5 cents of this amount may be received in cash for           
  processing and handling commodities. In addition, commodity schools are               
  eligible for Section 11 free and reduced price meal reimbursements.                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  For the period covered by the agreement on a fiscal-year basis.                       
Reports:

                                                                                        
  State agencies and schools file monthly reports on the number of meals served,

                                                                                        
  by type, to claim program funds. School food authorities must submit final meal

                                                                                        
  claims to the State no later than 60 days after the claiming month, and States

                                                                                        
  must submit final program reports to Food and Nutrition Service no later than 90

                                                                                        
  days after the claiming month. States must submit final fiscal year grant close

                                                                                        
  out reports to Food and Nutrition Service within 120 days after the end of the

                                                                                        
  fiscal year to which they pertain.

                                                                                        
Audits:

                                                                                        
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of

                                                                                        
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," State and local

                                                                                        
  governments, and nonprofit organizations that expended $500,000 or more

                                                                                        
  under Federal awards within any fiscal year shall have either a single audit or (in

                                                                                        
  certain cases) a program specific audit made for that year. Audits may be

                                                                                        
  conducted less frequently under conditions specified in OMB Circular No. A-

                                                                                        
  133.

                                                                                        
Records:

                                                                                        
  Schools must maintain full and accurate records of their lunch programs. Such

                                                                                        
  records shall be retained for a period of 3 years after the end of the fiscal year to

                                                                                        
  which they pertain, except that if audit findings have not been resolved, the

                                                                                        
  records shall be retained beyond the 3 year period as long as required for the

                                                                                        
  resolution of audit findings.

                                                                                        
Account Identification:

                                                                                        
  12-3539-0-1-605.

Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants) FY 07 $7,836,173,913; FY 08 est $8,209,848,000; and FY 09 est.               
  $8,599,755,000.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Range and Average of Financial Assistance Average Federal cash for school             
  year 2007 was 142.00 cents per meal and ranged from 6.0 cents for "paid"              
  snacks to 291.00 cents for free lunches in school districts serving more than 60      
  percent free and reduced price lunches. State grants vary according to                
  participation in the program.                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In fiscal year 2007, 5.07 billion lunches were served. School lunches must            
  provide, over a school week, 1/3 of the Recommended Dietary Allowances for            
  key nutrients and 1/3 of the calories needed by growing children. They also must      
  conform to the recommendations of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans,               
  including limitations on calories from fat (no more that 30 percent of total          
  calories) and saturated fat (less than 10 percent of total calories) averaged over    
  the school week. To support nutrition education USDA has established Team             
  Nutrition to provide nutrition information to children and their families and         
  technical assistance for local school food service professionals.                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Director, Child Nutrition Division, Food and Nutrition Service, Department of         
  Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Telephone: (703) 305-2590. Contact:                
  Cynthia Long, Director.                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                       


                                                                                  11-08 
  http://www.fns.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.553, School Breakfast Program; 10.556, Special Milk Program for Children;
  10.557, Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and
  Children; 10.558, Child and Adult Care Food Program; 10.559, Summer Food
  Service Program for Children; 84.010, Title I Grants to Local Educational
  Agencies.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
10.556 SPECIAL MILK PROGRAM FOR CHILDREN
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1772 and 1779.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide subsidies to schools and institutions to encourage the consumption of
  fluid milk by children.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are made available to State agencies to encourage the consumption of
  fluid milk by children in public and private nonprofit schools of high school
  grade and under, public and private nonprofit nursery schools, child-care
  centers, settlement houses, summer camps, and similar nonprofit institutions
  devoted to the care and training of children, except Job Corps Centers, provided
  that these schools and institutions do not participate in a meal service program
  authorized under the National School Lunch Act or the Child Nutrition Act of
  1966. The Child Nutrition Amendments of 1986 expanded eligibility in the
  program to include children in split session kindergarten and pre-kindergarten
  programs in nonprofit schools and institutions who do not have access to the
  Federal meal service program operating in schools the children attend.
  Disbursement to States is made on the basis of the number of half pints of milk
  served to non-needy children, using a reimbursement rate specified by law. Milk
  served free to eligible needy children is reimbursed at the average cost of a half
  pint of milk. Federal program funds for the Special Milk Program for Children
  are provided to each State agency in a Child Nutrition block grant along with
  program funds for the School Breakfast Program, the National School Lunch
  Program, the Summer Food Service Program for Children, and the Child and
  Adult Care Food Program. Congress has given some leeway to States to
  determine how this block of money will actually be allocated among these
  programs at the State level based on program needs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any State or U.S. Territory (except territories subject to the requirements of the
  Compact of Free Association). Any public and nonprofit private school of high
  school grade or under, and public and private nonprofit residential and
  nonresidential child care institutions, except Job Corps Centers, may participate
  in the Special Milk Program upon request if it does not participate in a meal
  service program authorized under the National School Lunch Act or the Child
  Nutrition Act of 1966. This generally includes nonprofit nursery schools, child-
  care centers, settlement houses and summer camps. Schools with split session
  kindergarten and pre-kindergarten programs can receive subsidies for milk
  served to children in the split session kindergartens and pre- kindergartens who
  do not have access to another meal service program operating in the school. All
  schools and child care institutions which participate must agree to operate the
  program on a nonprofit basis for all children without regard to race, sex, color,
  National origin, age or disability.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All children enrolled in schools and institutions in which the Special Milk
  Program is in operation may participate in the program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicant organizations must furnish evidence of nonprofit status. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations
  (7 CFR Part 3015 or 3016 and 3019).
Preapplication Coordination:
  The application forms as furnished by the State agency or Food and Nutrition
  Service, as applicable, must be used for this program. This program is eligible
  for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance.
Application Procedure:
  Public schools in all States make application to the State educational agency
  unless the state applies and is approved a waiver to designate an alternate
  agency. Appropriate forms may be obtained from this agency. In most cases,
  nonprofit private schools and institutions also apply to the State educational
  agency. However, in some States, the State educational agency is prohibited by
                                                                                        91
