  State statute from disbursing Federal funds to nonprofit private schools and         
  institutions. In such instances, the application will be referred to the appropriate 
  alternate State agency or the appropriate Food and Nutrition Service regional        
  office.                                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The State agency or the FNSRO, where applicable, reviews the written                 
  application of school or child care institution and, upon determination of           
  eligibility, makes a written agreement with school or sponsor for participation in   
  the program.                                                                         
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Federal/State agreement must be signed.                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Agreements are effective upon approval of the State Agency or the FNSRO,

  where applicable.                                                                    
Appeals:

  None. State agencies or the FNSRO, where applicable, are responsible for             
  determining eligibility of a school or institution.                                  
Renewals:

  Permanent, amended as necessary.                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  The reimbursement rate for each paid half pint of milk served to children with       
  household income levels above 130 percent of the poverty line in schools and         
  institutions that participate in the Special Milk Program during school year         
  2007-08 is 17.0 cents, and the reimbursement rate for each 1/2 pint of milk          
  served free (in pricing programs with a free milk option) to children with           
  household income levels at or below 130 percent of poverty is the average cost       
  of 1/2 pint of milk. This rate is adjusted each school year to correspond to the     
  change in the Producer Price Index for Fluid Milk Products published by the          
  Bureau of Labor Statistics. The statistical factor used for beneficiary eligibility  
  for free milk is 130 percent of the poverty line and the source is the Federal       
  income poverty guidelines. There is no matching guideline. The cost of milk in       
  excess of the Federal reimbursement must be borne by sources within the States       
  (7 CFR Part 215). Disbursement to States is based on the number of half pints        
  served to children. This program has no maintenance of effort (MOE)                  
  requirement.                                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  For the period covered by the agreement on a fiscal year basis.                      
Reports:                                                                               
  State agencies, schools and institutions file monthly reports on program             
  operations to claim for reimbursement. Schools must submit final claims to the       
  State agency no later than 60 days after the claiming month, and States must         
  submit final program reports to Food and Nutrition Service no later than 90 days     
  after the claiming month. For each fiscal year, States must submit final grant       
  close out reports to the Food and Nutrition Service not later than 120 days after    
  the close of the fiscal year to which they pertain.                                  
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of              
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," State and local             
  governments, and nonprofit organizations that expended $500,000 or more              
  under Federal awards within any fiscal year shall have either a single audit or (in  
  certain cases) a program specific audit made for that year. Audits may be            
  conducted less frequently under conditions specified in A-133.                       
Records:                                                                               
  Schools and institutions must maintain full and accurate records of Special Milk     
  Program operations. Such records shall be retained for a period of 3 years after     
  the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain except that, if audit findings have 
  not been resolved, the records shall be retained as long as required for their       
  resolution. This program is subject to periodic audits.                              
Account Identification:                                                                
  12-3539-0-1-605.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $14,224,678; FY 08 est $15,006,000; and FY 09 est                     
  $13,867,000.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  For fiscal year 2007, average Federal assistance is 17.0 cents for each half-pint    
  of milk served to children with income levels above 130 percent of poverty.          
  State grants vary according to participation in the program. Average Federal         
  assistance for half-pints served free is 17.0 cents.                                 
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  None.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  7 CFR Part 215, "Special Milk Program for Children," and 7 CFR Part 245,             
  "Determining Eligibility of Free and Reduced Price Meals and Free Milk in            
  Schools."                                                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Director, Child Nutrition Division, Food and Nutrition Service, Department of        
  Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Contact: Cynthia Long, Director.                  
  Telephone: (703) 305-2590.                                                           


92                                                                               11-08

Web Site Address:
  http://www.fns.usda.gov/cnd.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.553, School Breakfast Program; 10.555, National School Lunch Program;
  10.557, Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and
  Children; 10.558, Child and Adult Care Food Program; 10.559, Summer Food
  Service Program for Children; 84.010, Title I Grants to Local Educational
  Agencies.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
10.557 SPECIAL SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION PROGRAM
FOR WOMEN, INFANTS, AND CHILDREN
   (WIC Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, Section 17, 42 U.S.C. 1786.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide low-income pregnant, breastfeeding and postpartum women, infants,
  and children to age five determined to be at nutritional risk, at no cost,
  supplemental nutritious foods, nutrition education, and referrals to health and
  social services.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants are made to State health departments or comparable agencies, Indian
  tribes, bands, or intertribal councils, or groups recognized by the Bureau of
  Indian Affairs, Department of the Interior, or the Indian Health Service of the
  U.S. Department of Health and Human Services. These agencies distribute
  funds to participating local public or nonprofit private health or welfare
  agencies. Funds are expended to pay for supplemental foods, nutrition
  education and health care referrals for participants, as well as specified
  administrative costs, including certification services. State agencies are provided
  Federal funds according to legislative and regulatory formulas. Only local
  agencies qualifying under State agency applications with formal agreements may
  operate WIC programs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A local agency is eligible to apply to deliver locally the services of the WIC
  Program, provided that: (1) it serves a population of low-income women, infants,
  and children at nutritional risk; and (2) it is a public or private nonprofit health
  or human service agency. All local agencies must apply through the responsible
  State, Indian Tribal Organization or U.S. Territory agency.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Pregnant, breastfeeding and postpartum women, infants, and children up to 5
  years of age are eligible if: (1) they are individually determined by a competent
  professional to be in need of the special supplemental foods supplied by the
  program because of nutritional risk; and (2) meet an income standard, or receive
  or have certain family members that receive benefits under the Food Stamp,
  Medicaid or Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Programs. They must
  also reside in the State in which benefits are received.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Individuals are certified as meeting an income standard, or as participating in
  certain other means-tested Federal programs. Certification regarding nutritional
  need for supplemental foods is determined by local level professionals. As of
  April 1999, all State agencies were using uniform criteria to determine nutrition
  risk. Costs are determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments. The State designated official responsible for ensuring
  that the program is operated in accordance with program requirements must sign
  the State Plan and Federal-State Agreement pursuant to program regulations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Application is made through submission of a "State Plan of Program Operation
  and Administration," as required by legislation. This program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review. The standard application forms as furnished by FNS and
  required by OMB Circular No. A-102, as implemented by 7 CFR part 3016,
  must be used for this program by State and local agencies.
Application Procedure:
  Local agencies must apply to the State agency in writing. Individual participants
  apply for WIC benefits at an approved local agency.
Award Procedure:
  Funds are awarded by the Department on the basis of funding formulas to State
  agencies for distribution to approved local agencies subject to available funds.
