Deadlines:                                                                          
  A State plan for the next fiscal year is required by August 15. Only substantive  
  changes to the currently approved State plan must be submitted.                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approval determination is made within 30 days of submission of a completed        
  plan or amendment.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                            
  Local agency or food vendor appeals: The State agency provides a hearing          
  appeal procedure for a food vendor or local agency adversely affected by certain  
  State or local agency actions. The adverse action may be postponed until a        
  hearing decision is reached. Participant appeals: The State agency provides a     
  hearing appeal procedure for any individual that receives a State or local agency 
  action that results in a claim for repayment of the cash value of improperly      
  issued benefits, denial of participation, or disqualification from the WIC        
  Program.                                                                          
Renewals:                                                                           
  The program is authorized through September 30, 2009; it presently operates       
  under the authority of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended.               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Grants are allocated on the basis of formulas determined by the Department of     
  Agriculture which allocate funds for food benefits, and nutrition services and    
  administration costs. No matching funds are required, but some States             
  contribute nonfederal funds in support of a larger WIC Program in their State.    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Grants are released for the fiscal year using an electronic transfer system. State
  agencies may withdraw funds only as needed.                                       
Reports:                                                                            
  Monthly report of participation, value of food or food instruments issued,        
  operating expenses, and funds withdrawn from the Federal letter of credit.        
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of           
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," State and local          
  governments and Nonprofit organizations that expend a total amount of Federal     
  awards equal to or in excess of $500,000 in any fiscal year shall have either a   
  single audit or (in certain cases stated in the Circular) a program-specific audit
  made for such fiscal year. Audit rules provided by OMB Circular A-133 must be     
  applied for audits of grantee and subgrantee fiscal years that began on or after  
  July 1, 1996. Authority to conduct such audits less frequently than annually is   
  limited to: (1) State or local governments required by constitution or statute, in
  effect on January 1, 1987, to undergo audits less frequently than annually; and   
  (2) nonprofit organizations that had biennial audits for all biennial periods     
  ending between July 1, 1992 and January 1, 1995. If a biennial audit is           
  authorized, the audit must cover the two year period.                             
Records:                                                                            
  Full and complete records concerning program operations including financial       
  operations, food delivery systems, food instrument issuance and redemption,       
  equipment purchases and inventory, certification, nutrition education, civil      
  rights and fair hearing procedures.                                               
Account Identification:                                                             
  12-3510-0-1-605.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants for food) FY 07 $5,547,776,650; FY 08 est $6,250,280,000; and FY 09       
  est not reported.                                                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $71,977 to $891,953,017. Average: $59,056,900 in fiscal year 2006 for the 90

  State Agencies.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                    
  For fiscal year 2007, FNS approved the operation of the WIC Program in 90         
  State agencies. This figure includes 50 States, 34 Indian agencies, Puerto Rico,  
  the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern        
  Marianas and the District of Columbia. As of September 2007, an average of        
  approximately 8,285,249 women, infants and children received WIC benefits         
  every month. Although food package costs varied widely among the States, the      
  monthly average food package cost as of September 2007 was approximately          
  $39.09 per person. For fiscal year 2007, the WIC Program realized over $1.9       
  billion in savings generated by infant formula rebates, which allowed             
  approximately 2.2 million additional participants to be served with the WIC       
  grant. In its continuing effort to advance new technologies, FNS awarded          
  approximately $5.2 million in Electronic Benefits Transfer (EBT) grants to 6      
  WIC State agencies in FY 2007, in support of EBT projects. The WIC Program        
  State Agency Model (SAM) Project is a FNS initiate to plan, develop and deploy    
  model information systems (IS) in WIC State agencies. The SAM project was         
  initiated by FNS at the request of the Office of Management and Budget, with      
  the expectation that these modern, state-of-the-art systems will be transferred to
  other WIC State agencies at a lower cost than regular development/transfer        
  efforts. FNS has awarded funding to 3 State Agency Model (SAM) consortia          
  across the country. Funding in FY 2006 totaled $20,214,463; an additional         
  $553,433 was awarded in FY 2007. As part of its efforts to revitalize quality     
  nutrition services, in FY 2007 FNS continued to take steeps to increase training  
  and technical assistance opportunities and facilitate communication among its     


                                                                               11-08
  partners. In collaboration with the National Agricultural Library-Food and
  Nutrition Information Center, FNS continues to enhance the WIC Works
  Resource System (WWRS), an on-line system for WIC educators to talk, share
  successes, receive training on counseling strategies, and find educational
  materials and tools for assessment, and review current research. A new feature of
  WWRS is the WIC Bulletin Board Exchange; a database of ideas collected from
  WIC local agencies. The data base containes over 40 ideas many with photos
  from the waiting rooms and offices. The goal is to allow WIC staff to share
  ideas on how to reinforce nutrition messages through bulletin board displays.
  The online staff learning modules were enhanced with the addition of 3 modules
  on the topic of infant feeding (Infant Formula Basics, Feeding Infants 0-6
  Months, and Feeding Infants 6-12 Months). Additionally a series of Web pages
  were created to post resources that assist State and local agencies in planning,
  developing and implementing the Value Enhanced Nutrition Assessment
  initiative. As part of our ongoing committment to promote breastfeeding to WIC
  participants and their families through the USDA national breastfeeding
  promotion campaign, Loving Support Makes Breastfeeding Work, a marketing
  project, Partnering with WIC for Breastfeeding Success, was launched. This
  project invites stakeholders and health care professionals to partner with WIC to
  create a national environment that encourages mothers to breastfeed. In FY
  2006, FNS and the National WIC Association continued to work together on the
  Value Enhanced Nutrition Assessment (VENA) initiative. Part of the continuing
  effort to improve and revitalize nutrition services in the WIC Program, VENA is
  WIC nut rition assessment guidance toenhance and ensurethecollection and
  interpretation of accurate and relevant assessment information for all WIC
  Program participants. In FY 2006, FNS worked with the Rochester Institute of
  Technology to provide training to all WIC State agencies on the competencies
  necessary to implement VENA: critical thinking, rapport building, and positive
  health outcome-based
  approachestonutritionassessment.competenciesnecessaryto implement VENA:
  critical thinking, rapport building, and positive health outcome-based
  approaches to nutrition assessment.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR Part 246; "WIC State Plan Guidance" is available at no charge from FNS.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Food and Nutrition Service regional offices listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Supplemental Food Programs Division, Food and Nutrition Service, Department
  of Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Contact: Patricia Daniels, Director.
  Telephone: (703) 305-2746. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fns.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.551, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program; 10.556, Special Milk
  Program for Children; 10.565, Commodity Supplemental Food Program; 10.572,
  WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Program (FMNP); 93.246, Health Centers
  Grants for Migrant and Seasonal Farmworkers; 93.283, Centers for Disease
  Control and Prevention_Investigations and Technical Assistance; 93.600, Head
  Start.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
10.558 CHILD AND ADULT CARE FOOD PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended, Sections 9, 11, 14,
  16 and 17, as amended, 89 Stat. 522-525, 42 U.S.C. 1758, 1759a, 1762a, 1765
  and 1766.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist States, through grants-in-aid and other means, to initiate and maintain
  nonprofit food service programs for children, elderly or impaired adults in
  nonresidential day care facilities and children in emergency shelters.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are made available for disbursement to eligible institutions to reimburse
  their costs in providing meals and snacks to homeless children in emergency
  shelters and children and adults receiving nonresidential day care, including
  after school programs. Disbursement is made on the basis of the number of
  lunches, suppers, breakfasts, and snacks served, using annually adjusted
  reimbursement rates specified by law. Program institutions may receive
  reimbursement for not more than three meals per day, per participant. The
  Program is available in child care centers and day care homes to children
  through the age of 12 years, except for the children of migrant workers, who may
  participate through the age of 15 years, and individuals with disabilities without
                                                                                       93
