  regard to their age, if participating in a center or home where the majority of       
  children are 18 years of age or younger. In addition, the Program is available to     
  children in emergency shelters through the age of 18. In after school care            
  programs, reimbursement is available for snacks (and suppers in eight States)         
  served to children through age 18. In adult day care centers, functionally            
  impaired adults 18 years of age and older and adults 60 years of age and older        
  who are not residents of an institution are eligible. Meals must meet minimum         
  requirements of the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA). Federal           
  program funds for the Child and Adult Care Food Program are provided to each          
  State agency in a Child Nutrition block grant along with program funds for the        
  School Breakfast Program, the Special Milk Program for Children, the Summer           
  Food Service Program for Children, and the National School Lunch Program.             
  Congress has given some leeway to States to determine how this block of money         
  will actually be allocated among these programs at the State level based on           
  program needs.                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  The State or U.S. Territory agency applies for, and signs an annual agreement to      
  receive Federal funds for disbursement. In Virginia, where the State does not         
  administer the program, institutions may receive funds directly from USDA. If         
  the institution is a school food authority that operates another Child Nutrition      
  Program (NSLP, SMP, SBP, SFSP), the institution must have a single,                   
  permanent agreement with the State agency.                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Approved institutions providing nonresidential day care services may participate      
  in the program. Emergency shelters which provide shelter and meals to homeless        
   children are eligible. Eligible public and nonprofit private organizations may       
  include day care centers, outside-school-hours care centers, settlement houses,       
  family and group day care homes, Head Start programs, and institutions                
  providing day care services to children with disabilities. Private for-profit         
  centers may also participate if at least 25 percent of the children in care (enrolled 
   or licensed capacity, whichever is less) are eligible for free or reduced price      
  school meals or receive benefits under Title XX Also eligible for participation       
  are nonprofit centers which provide nonresidential adult day care, and private        
  for-profit adult day care centers which receive compensation under Title XIX or       
  Title XX, if not less than 25 percent of their enrolled eligible adults receive       
  benefits under Title XIX, Title XX, or a combination of Title XIX and Title XX.       
  Any eligible institution may participate in the Child and Adult Care Food             
  Program upon request with State agency approval.                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  The allow ability of costs incurred by States in administering the program will       
  be determined in accordance with USDA Uniform Federal Assistance                      
  Regulations (7 CFR Part 3016 and 3019). Applicant organizations must furnish          
  evidence of tax-exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. This           
  requirement does not apply to public agencies or proprietary institutions.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is subject to the provisions of E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official       
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information    
  on the process required by the State.                                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Institutions apply to the responsible State agency. In Virginia, where the State      
  does not administer the program, the application is directed to the USDA Food         
  and Nutrition Service (FNS) Mid-Atlantic Regional Office. This program is             
  subject to the provisions of USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations (7           
  CFR Parts 3016 and 3019).                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  When the application is approved, the institution signs an annual agreement with      
  the administering agency.                                                             
Deadlines:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Not applicable to States. States must approve or disapprove an application from       
  an institution within 30 calendar days after receipt of a completed application.      
Appeals:                                                                                
  The administering agency must provide a hearing procedure for local institution       
  (i.e., center and sponsoring organization) grievances.                                
Renewals:                                                                               
  Not less frequently than every three years.                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  Program funds are provided to the States through letters of credit to reimburse       
  institutions for costs of food service operations, including administrative           
  expenses. Appropriate rates of reimbursement, multiplied by the number of             
  meals served to enrolled participants, represent the basic program payment that

  an institution receives for each meal served. The assigned rates of                   
  reimbursement are adjusted annually on July 1. For child care centers, adult day      
  care centers, and emergency shelters for homeless children, the annual

  adjustment reflects changes in the Food Away from Home series of Consumer             
  Price Index for All Urban Consumers. For day care homes, the adjustment               
  reflects changes in the Food at Home series of the Consumer Price Index for All       
  Urban Consumers. Donated foods or cash in lieu of donated foods are also              


94                                                                                11-08

  made available. Program payments to child care or adult day care centers
  depend on the number and types of meals served to enrolled participants,
  multiplied by the appropriate rate of reimbursement. Rates for meals served to
  enrolled children and eligible adults in day care centers are determined by the
  participants' eligibility for free, reduced price, or paid meals using USDA
  Income Eligibility Guidelines. All children through age 18 in eligible
  emergency shelters receive free meals without application. After school care
  programs, which must be located in low-income areas, are reimbursed at the free
  rate for all snacks--and meals in the States of Missouri, Delaware, Michigan,
  Pennsylvania, New York, Oregon, Illinois and West Virginia--served to children
  through age 18. Sponsoring organizations of day care homes for children are
  reimbursed at a graduated administrative rate based on the number of homes
  they operate. The level of reimbursement for meals served to enrolled children
  in day care homes is determined by economic need based on either the location
  of the day care home; or the income of the day care provider; or the income of
  an individual child's household. Meals served in day care homes to the provider's
  own children are reimbursable only if those children are determined eligible for
  free and reduced price meals, and at least one other nonresidential child is
  participating in the meal service. The reimbursement for food service is passed
  on by sponsoring organizations to the day care home providers under their
  auspices. This program does not have maintenance of effort (MOE)
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  For the period covered by the agreement.
Reports:
  Institutions file monthly reports on program operations to claim reimbursement
  for meals served and must submit final meal claims no later than 60 days after
  the claiming month. States, then, must submit final program reports to FNS no
  later than 90 days after the claiming month.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," States and Local
  Governments, and Nonprofit organizations that expend $500,000 or more under
  Federal awards within any fiscal year shall have either a single audit or (in
  certain cases) a program specific audit made for that year. Audits may be
  conducted less frequently under conditions specified in OMB Circular No. A-
  133. For-profit institutions are subject to audit by their administering State
  agencies.
Records:
  Institutions must maintain full and accurate records of program operations for a
  period of 3 years after the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain. However,
  where there are unresolved audit findings, records must be retained until there is
  satisfactory resolution of audit issues.
Account Identification:
  12-3539-0-1-605.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,303,732,494; FY 08 est $2,286,629,000; and FY 09 est
  $2,386,780,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  State grants vary according to participation in the program.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR Part 226 Regulations and the Child and Adult Care Food Program fact
  sheet are available at no charge. Administrative and nutrition guidance is
  available at no charge to program participants from the administering agency.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Child Nutrition Division, Food and Nutrition Service, Department of
  Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Contact: Cynthia Long, Director.
  Telephone: (703) 305-2590.
Web Site Address:
  http://fns.usda.gov/cnd.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.553, School Breakfast Program; 10.555, National School Lunch Program;
  10.556, Special Milk Program for Children; 10.559, Summer Food Service
  Program for Children; 93.600, Head Start.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
10.559 SUMMER FOOD SERVICE PROGRAM FOR
CHILDREN
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, Sections 9, 13 and 14, as
