  amended, 42 U.S.C. 1758, 1761 and 1762a.                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To assist States, through grants-in-aid and other means, to conduct nonprofit     
  food service programs for low-income children during the summer months and        
  at other approved times, when schools are out of session or are closed for        
  vacation.                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Formula Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funds are made available for disbursement to eligible service institutions        
  (sponsors) which provide free meals to children in areas where at least 50        
  percent of the children meet the income eligibility criteria for free and reduced 
  price lunches. Meals may be served to children 18 and younger, and to             
  individuals over 18 who participate in State approved school programs for         
  persons with disabilities. The program generally operates during the months of    
  May through September at site locations where regularly scheduled food services   
  are provided for children. Sites may also participate in the program from         
  September through May if the school is closed because of an emergency             
  situation. Service institutions operating food programs for children on school    
  vacation under a continuous year-round calendar may apply for participation in    
  other months. The Consolidated Appropriations Act of 2008 extends cost            
  accounting procedures commonly known as the "Simplified" Summer Food              
  Service Program to all sponsors in all States equals the maximum per meal         
  reimbursement rater. Reimbursement may be paid for one meal and one snack or      
  two meals per child each day. Camps and sites primarily serving children of       
  migrant workers may be approved to serve up to three reimbursable meals each      
  day. Meals must meet minimum requirements of the United States Department         
  of Agriculture (USDA). Funds are also paid to participating State agencies for    
  State administrative expenses related to employing personnel, including travel    
  and related expenses, and to supervise and provide technical assistance to        
  service institutions operating the program. Federal program funds for the         
  Summer Food Service Program for Children are provided to each State agency in     
  a Child Nutrition block grant along with program funds for the School Breakfast   
  Program, the Special Milk Program for Children, the National School Lunch         
  Program, and the Child and Adult Care Food Program. Congress has given some       
  leeway to States to determine how this block of money will actually be allocated  
  among these programs at the State level based on program needs.                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  The State or U.S. Territory agency applies for and signs an annual agreement to   
  receive Federal funds for disbursement. Where the State does not administer the   
  program, an applicant institution may sign an agreement and receive funds         
                                                                                    
  directly from USDA.

                                                                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                    
  A service institution that conducts a regularly scheduled program for children

                                                                                    
  from areas in which poor economic conditions exist is eligible to participate in

                                                                                    
  the program. Such institutions include public or private nonprofit school food

                                                                                    
  authorities; public or private nonprofit colleges or universities operating the

                                                                                    
  National Youth Sports Program during the months of May to September; and

                                                                                    
  units of local, municipal, county, or State governments. Other private nonprofit  
  organizations are eligible to participate under certain conditions. Service       
  institutions which develop food service programs for children during school       
  vacations under a continuous school calendar may also participate. Public or      
  private nonprofit residential or nonresidential summer camps may also             
  participate; however, at camps, reimbursement will only be paid for meals         
  served to enrolled children who are individually determined to be eligible for    
  free and reduced price school meals under USDA Income Eligibility Guidelines.     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  The allowability of costs incurred by States in administering the program will be 
  determined in accordance with USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations         
  (7 CFR Parts 3016 and 3019).                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental

  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official

  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process required by the State.                                             
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Service institutions may apply directly to the responsible State administering    
  agency. In Virginia where the State does not administer the program, the          
  application is directed to the USDA Food and Nutrition Service regional office.   
  This program is subject to the provisions of USDA's Uniform Federal Assistance    
  Regulations (7 CFR Parts 3016 and 3019).                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  When an application is approved, the service institution (sponsor) enters into an 
  agreement with the appropriate administering agency for the duration of summer    
  program operations. If the institution is a school food authority that operates   
  another Child Nutrition Program (NSLP, CACFP, SMP, or SBP) with the same          
  administering agency, the institution must have a single, permanent agreement.    
Deadlines:                                                                          
  A State Management Administration Plan is due February 15. States establish       
  the deadline date for sponsor applications; however, no applications can be       
                                                                               11-08
  accepted after June 15.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable to States. States must render a decision within 30 calendar days
  of receipt of a complete and correct application from a service institution. If an
  incomplete application is received, the State agency shall notify the applicant
  within 15 days and provide technical assistance to complete the application.
Appeals:
  The administering agency must have a hearing procedure for local service
  institution grievances.
Renewals:
  Annually.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Program funds are earned by the States and institutions on a per meal
  reimbursement basis with rates adjusted annually on January 1, to reflect
  changes in the "Food Away from Home" series of the Consumer Price Index for
  All Urban Consumers. This program has no maintenance of effort (MOE)
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  For the period covered by the agreement.
Reports:
  Service institutions file monthly reports on program operations to claim
  reimbursement for meals served.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Non-profit Organizations," State and Local
  Governments, and Non-profit organizations that expend $500,000 or more under
  Federal awards within any fiscal year shall have either a single audit or (in
  certain cases) a program specific audit made for that year. Audits may be
  conducted less frequently under conditions specified in A-133.
Records:
  Service institutions must maintain full and accurate records of program
  operations for a period of 3 years after the end of the fiscal year to which they
  pertain. However, where there are unresolved audit findings, records must be
  retained until there is satisfactory resolution of the audit issues.
Account Identification:
  12-3539-0-1-605.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $297,932,607; FY 08 est $312,637,000; and FY 09 est $328,934,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  State grants vary according to participation in the program.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR Part 225 regulations and the Summer Food Service Program fact sheet,
  are available at no charge. Administrative and nutrition guidance is available at
  no charge to program participants from the administering agency.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Child Nutrition Division, Food and Nutrition Service, Department of
  Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Contact: Cynthia Long, Director.
  Telephone: (703) 305-2590.
Web Site Address:
  http://fns.usda.gov/cnd.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.553, School Breakfast Program; 10.555, National School Lunch Program;
  10.556, Special Milk Program for Children; 10.558, Child and Adult Care Food
  Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
10.560 STATE ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES FOR CHILD
NUTRITION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1776, 1779.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide each State agency with funds for its administrative expenses in
  supervising and giving technical assistance to local schools, school districts and
  institutions in their conduct of Child Nutrition Programs. State agencies that
  administer the distribution of USDA donated commodities to schools or child or
  adult care institutions are also provided with State Administrative Expense
  (SAE) funds.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  SAE funds must be used for purposes specified in the legislation, consistent with
                                                                                       95
