  the cost principles and constraints on allowable and unallowable costs, and         
  indirect cost rates as prescribed in OMB Circular No. A-87. These funds may         
  be used, under certain conditions, for the procurement of supplies, equipment,      
  and services. Five FNS programs comprise the Child Nutrition grants to States       
  funding block. Federal funds for State administrative expenses allocated to the     
  National School Lunch Program, the School Breakfast Program, the Special            
  Milk Program for Children, the Summer Food Service Program for Children, and        
  the Child and Adult Care Food Program are combined and provided to each             
  State agency as a "block distribution." Congress has given some leeway to States    
  to determine how this block of money will actually be allocated among these         
  programs at the State level based on program administrative needs.                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State agencies responsible for the conduct of Child Nutrition Programs, and         
  agencies responsible for the distribution of USDA donated commodities to            
  schools, and/or child or adult care institutions, including agencies in the U.S.    
  Territories.                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State agencies responsible for the conduct of Child Nutrition Programs, and         
  agencies responsible for the distribution of USDA donated commodities to            
  schools, and/or child or adult care institutions, including agencies in the U.S.    
  Territories.                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs are to be determined and documented in accordance with agency                 
  regulations (7 CFR 235) and USDA Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations (7          
  CFR Parts 3015 or 3016 and 3019).                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
                                                                                      
  State has selected the program for review.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

  The State agency enters into a written agreement with the Food and Nutrition        
  Service (FNS) on a form prescribed by the FNS. The standard application forms       
                                                                                      
  as furnished by the Federal agency must be used for this program. This program

                                                                                      
  is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

  Release of funds to a State agency is contingent upon receipt and approval of

  their plan for disbursement of SAE funds. A State agency must submit an initial     
  Plan in fiscal year 1997 and their estimated funding needs for the duration of      
  fiscal year 1997. Thereafter, in accordance with Public Law 104-193 which           
  deleted the requirement for an annual plan unless there are substantive changes,

  a State agency would only submit revisions to the initial plan.                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Data on additional funds needed or funds not needed and to be returned as           
  applicable, are due by May 1 of each year.                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  None.                                                                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Annually.                                                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  For the National School Lunch Program, the School Breakfast Program, and the        
  Special Milk Program, funds are allocated on the basis of an amount equal to        
  one percent of the total funds used in the State for these programs during the      
  second preceding year based on FNS program and fiscal data. However, no             
  State receives less than $200,000 or the amount it received in fiscal year 1981,    
  whichever is larger. For the Child and Adult Care Food Program, a sliding grant     
  is made based on FNS program and fiscal data. In addition, the Secretary has        
  discretionary authority to provide funds to States for program improvement,         
  based on FNS program and fiscal data. The authorizing legislation which             
  establishes eligibility for SAE funds is the Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as        
  amended, Section 7 (42 U.S.C. 1776). This program has a State Funding               
  Requirement (SFR). See funding agency for details. Any reduction of funds           
  from State sources below the fiscal year 1977 level will result in a withdrawal of  
  Federal funds under this grant.                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Funded each fiscal year during the period covered by the agreement. A State         
  agency may carry over up to twenty percent of SAE funds allocated to it for         
  obligation and expenditure during the succeeding fiscal year.                       
Reports:                                                                              
  Each State agency shall submit quarterly financial status information on SAE        
  funds on forms provided by FNS and will continue to report information on the       
  use of SAE funds, after the end of the fiscal year to which they pertain, until all 
  unpaid obligations have been liquidated.                                            
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of             
  States, Local Governments, and Non-profit Organizations," State governments         
  that expended $500,000 or more under Federal awards within any fiscal year          


96                                                                              11-08

  shall have either a single audit or (in certain cases) a program specific audit
  made for that year. Audits may be conducted less frequently under conditions
  specified in A-133.
Records:
  Each State agency shall keep records on administrative expenses conforming
  with the applicable SAE plan and shall maintain current accounting records of
  SAE funds that shall adequately identify fund authorizations, obligations,
  unobligated balances, assets, liabilities, outlays, and income.
Account Identification:
  12-3539-0-1-605.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $162,843,624; FY 08 $171,177,636; and FY 09 est $184,454,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  From $309,953 to $20,122,410; $3,153,719.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The availability of SAE funds has enabled State agencies to be more effective in
  meeting their administrative responsibilities under the National School Lunch,
  School Breakfast, Special Milk, Child and Adult Care Food Program, and Food
  Distribution Program.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations 7 CFR Part 235, "State Administrative Expense Funds."
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Child Nutrition Division, Food and Nutrition Service, Department of
  Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Telephone: (703) 305-2590. Contact:
  Cynthia Long, Director.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fns.usda.gov/cnd
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.553, School Breakfast Program; 10.555, National School Lunch Program;
  10.556, Special Milk Program for Children; 10.558, Child and Adult Care Food
  Program, 10.559 Summer Food Service Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
10.561 STATE ADMINISTRATIVE MATCHING GRANTS
FOR THE SUPPLEMENTAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Food Stamp Act of 1977, as amended, Section 16, Public Law 95-113, 91 Stat.
  958, 7 U.S.C. 2025; Public Law 99-198, Public Law 105-33, Public Law 105-
  185.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide Federal financial aid to State agencies for costs incurred to operate
  the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP). Formally known as the
  Food Stamp Program.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To provide Federal funding for administrative costs incurred by State and local
  agencies to operate SNAP. Unless authorized by Federal legislation, outlays
  charged to other Federal grants or to Federal contracts may not be considered as
  State agency costs. Submission of claims for payments of administrative costs
  shall be in accordance with 7 CFR 277 of the SNAP Regulations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Agreements are between USDA-FNS and State cooperators. (U.S. Territories
  qualify as States for grant purposes.)
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Agreements are between USDA-FNS and State cooperators. (U.S. Territories
  qualify as States for grant purposes.)
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments, 7 CFR 277, and cost allocation plans negotiated by a
  cognizant Federal agency for State government.
Preapplication Coordination:
  No preapplication forms are required. A plan of operation must be submitted by
  the State agency prior to approval for funding. The standard application forms
  as furnished by the Federal agency and required by OMB Circular No. A-102, as
  implemented by 7 CFR part 3016, must be used for this program. This program
  is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
