  and of unemployed persons (40 percent).                                             
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  None.                                                                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Federal/State agreements are ongoing and amended as necessary. Individuals          
  receiving food for home consumption are recertified periodically. Persons           
  receiving commodities in the form of meals from sites which serve prepared          
  meals are presumed to be eligible.                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Commodities are allocated among the States based on a legislatively-mandated        
  formula. The allocation formula is based in part (60%) on the number of people      
  whose income is below the poverty level and in part (40%) on the number             
  unemployed persons. Including amounts converted into administrative funds,          
  $130,640,006 was available Nationally to purchase commodities in 2007.              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  None.                                                                               
Reports:                                                                              
  Inventory reports on the FCS-155.                                                   
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of

                                                                                      
  States, Local governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," State and local            
  governments, and non-profit organizations that expend Federal financial             
  assistance of $500,000 or more within any fiscal year shall have either a single    
  audit or (in certain cases) a program specific audit made for that year. Audits     
  may be conducted less frequently under conditions specified in OMB Circular         
  No. A-133.                                                                          
Records:                                                                              
  Normal records accounting for receipts and dispersals; retention required for 3     
  years following the close of the fiscal year or until any outstanding audit, claim, 
  or litigation is settled.                                                           
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-3505-0-1-605.

                                                                                      
Obligations:

                                                                                      
  FY 07 $130,640,006; FY 08 est $140,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                      
  Range was $22,156 to $15,577,443, while the Average was $2,375,272.

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Provided commodities to State and local agencies for distribution to needy          
  persons for use at home or for use at sites which serve prepared meals.             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  7 CFR Part 251; refer to 7 CFR Part 250 for applicable provisions on                
  commodity handling.                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  See Food and Nutrition Service Regional Office contacts listed in Appendix IV       
  of the Catalog.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Food Distribution Division, FNS, USDA, Room 500, Park Office Center, 3101           
  Park Center Drive, Alexandria, VA 22302. Contact: Cathie McCullough,                
  Director. Telephone: (703) 305-2680.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.fns.usda.gov/fdd/programs/tefap/default.htm.                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.568, Emergency Food Assistance Program (Administrative Costs); 10.551,           
  Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program.                                          
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  None.                                                                               
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
10.572 WIC FARMERS' MARKET NUTRITION PROGRAM                                          
(FMNP)                                                                                
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                      
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

  WIC Farmers' Market Nutrition Act of 1992, Public Law 102-314, 106 Stat.            
  281; Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, Section 17(m), 42 U.S.C. 1786.        
                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

  (1) To provide fresh, nutritious unprepared locally grown fruits and vegetables     
  from farmers markets to women, infants, and children who participate in the         
  Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children              
  (WIC); and (2) to expand the awareness and use of farmers' markets and increase     
  sales at such markets.                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Formula Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants are made to State health, agriculture and other agencies (or Indian tribes,  


                                                                                 11-08
  bands, or intertribal councils or groups recognized by the Department of the
  Interior, or the Indian Health Service of the Department of Health and Human
  Services.) Participating State agencies must provide program income or State,
  local, or private funds for the program in an amount that is equal to at least 30
  percent of the administrative cost of the program except Indian Tribal
  Organizations which may receive a negotiated match contribution that is less
  than 30 percent but not less than 10 percent. The matching requirement may be
  satisfied from State contributions that are made for similar programs. Federal
  FMNP benefits (coupons) may be issued only to participants in the Special
  Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants and Children (WIC) or to
  persons who are on a waiting list to receive WIC benefits.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All State agencies that desire to receive a FMNP grant must submit, for each
  fiscal year, a State plan to the Food and Nutrition Service (FNS), USDA. States
  that received Federal assistance under the Farmers' Market Coupon
  Demonstration Project, which was administered by FNS from 1989-1992, were
  "grandfathered" into the FMNP by Public Law 102-314. Other States interested
  in participating in the FMNP must first submit a State plan to the appropriate
  FNS regional office for approval. Approved plans are then reviewed and
  evaluated by the National office (Supplemental Food Programs Division). New
  State agencies are then selected based on the evaluation and the availability of
  funds. Local FMNP sites are selected by participating State agencies based on
  concentration of eligible WIC participants and access to farmers' markets.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  WIC participants (i.e., pregnant, postpartum or breastfeeding women; infants
  over 4 months of age; and children up to 5 years of age) and (at the State's
  discretion) those who are on a waiting list to receive WIC benefits are eligible to
  receive FMNP coupons. State agencies may also designate subcategories of
  WIC participants, e.g., pregnant and breastfeeding women only, to be FMNP
  recipients.
Credentials/Documentation:
  WIC participants (except infants under 4 months of age) and persons on WIC
  waiting lists certified for WIC eligibility who live in areas with a FMNP are
  eligible to receive benefits. A signed and executed Federal/State Agreement is
  necessary before funds can be allocated to a participating FMNP State agency.
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 7 CFR Part 3016, and FNS
  guidelines and instructions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Application is made through submission of a "State Plan of Program Operation
  and Administration" as required by law. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Farmers or farmers' markets (depending on whether State agencies have
  agreements with farmers or markets) located in communities with WIC Program
  sites may apply to be authorized to accept FMNP coupons under the program.
  The State agency reviews the applications for completeness and compliance with
  authorization requirements. The State agency contacts the farmer/farmers'
  market to inform them of qualification. Individual participants apply for FMNP
  benefits at approved local WIC agencies.
Award Procedure:
  Funds are awarded by the Department on the basis of funding formulas to State
  agencies.
Deadlines:
  A State plan for the next fiscal year is required by November 15.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  An eligibility determination will be made within 30 days of submission.
Appeals:
  Farmer/farmers' market appeals: The State agency shall provide a hearing
  procedure whereby a farmer/farmers' market adversely affected by a State
  agency action may appeal the action. The right of appeal shall be granted when
  a farmer/farmers' market is denied or, during the course of the contract or
  agreement, when a farmer/farmers' market is disqualified or any other adverse
  action which affects participation is taken.
Renewals:
  This Program is authorized through September 30, 2009.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Statutory formula can be found at Section 17(m)(3) of the Child Nutrition Act.
  As a prerequisite to the receipt of Federal funds, a State agency must agree to
  contribute program income or State, local or private funds equal to at least 30
  percent of its administrative program cost. Indian Tribal Organizations may
  receive a negotiated match contribution that is less than 30 percent but not less
  than 10 percent. State contributions for similar programs may satisfy the State
  matching requirement. Provided that sufficient funds are available, each current
  State agency will be funded at its most recent year's level. Remaining funds are
  divided between current States for expansion and new States, based on a 75 to
  25 percent ratio, respectively.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants have been released for the duration of the fiscal year using Federal
  Reserve Bank letters of credit. State agencies may withdraw funds only as
  needed.
                                                                                   101
