Reports:                                                                              
  Annual reports submitted to FNS specifying the following data: Number and           
  type of recipients (Federal and nonfederal); number of authorized farmers,          
  farmers' markets, and farm or roadside stands; value of coupons issued and          
  redeemed; and financial expenditure data.                                           
Audits:                                                                               
  State and local agencies shall obtain either a single audit or a program-specific   
  audit in accordance with 7 CFR 3016.26 or 3019.26 and 3052, as applicable.          
Records:                                                                              
  State agencies must maintain full and complete records including recipient and      
  financial data; coupon issuance and redemption data; equipment purchases and        
  inventory; nutrition education and civil rights procedures.                         
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-3510-0-1-605.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $22,109,323; FY 08 est $19,860,000 and FY 09 est not reported.                
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Range and Average of Financial Assistance $6,337 to $4,452,384; $621,155.           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  FNS has approved the operation of the FMNP in 46 State agencies, which              
  include 37 States, the District of Columbia, Guam, Puerto Rico and 5 Indian         
  Tribal Organizations for fiscal year 2006, thereby increasing the consumption of    
  fresh fruits and vegetables from farmers' markets by many more WIC recipients.      
  This is consistent with the nutrition goals of WIC and FMNP to motivate WIC         
  participants to make healthy food choices.                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  7 CFR Part 248.                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  See Food and Nutrition Service updated regional office listed in Appendix IV.       
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Supplemental Food Programs Division, Food and Nutrition Service, Department         
  of Agriculture, 3101 Park Center Drive, Room 540, Alexandria, VA 22302.             
  Contact Debra R. Whitford, Branch Chief. Telephone: (703) 305-2746.                 
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.fns.usda.gov./wic/.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.551, Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program; 10.553, School Breakfast         
  Program; 10.555, National School Lunch Program; 10.556, Special Milk                
  Program for Children; 10.557, Special Supplemental Nutrition Program for            
  Women, Infants, and Children; 10.565, Commodity Supplemental Food                   
  Program.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
10.574 TEAM NUTRITION GRANTS                                                          
      (Team Nutrition Training Grants)                                                
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National School Lunch Act, Section 6(a)(3) Agriculture, Rural Development,          
  Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of            
  1996; Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and             
  Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 1997, Public Law 104-280; Agriculture,       
  Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies               
  Appropriations Act of 1998, Public Law 105-86; Agriculture, Rural                   
                                                                                      
  Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies

                                                                                      
  Appropriations Act of 1999, Public Law 105-277; Agriculture, Rural

                                                                                      
  Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies

                                                                                      
  Appropriations Act of 2000, Public Law 106-78; Agriculture, Rural

                                                                                      
  Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies

                                                                                      
  Appropriations Act of 2001, Public Law 106-387. Agriculture, Rural                  
  Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies                     
  Appropriations Act of 2002, Public Law 107-229 for 2003.                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  Team Nutrition Training Grants for Healthy School Meals have been identified        
  in USDA's national Strategic Plan for Training and Technical Assistance as one      
  of the anchor delivery systems for supporting the implementation of USDA's          
  nutrition requirements and the Dietary Guideline for Americans in school meals.     
   Team Nutrition's (TN) goal is to improve children's lifelong eating and physical   
  activity habits by using the principles of the Dietary Guidelines for Americans     
  and the Food Guide System. TN Training Grants offer funding to state agencies       
  to establish or enhance sustainable infrastructures for implementing TN using       
  three behavior-focused strategies: (1) provide training and technical assistance to 
  child nutrition food service professionals to enable them to prepare and serve      
  nutritious meals that appeal to students; (2) promote nutrition curriculum and      
  education in schools through multiple communication channels (i.e., food            


102                                                                             11-08

  services initiatives, classroom activities, school wide events, home activities,
  community programs and events, and media events and coverage) to reinforce
  positive nutrition messages and encourage students to make healthy food
  physical activity choices as part of a healthy lifestyle; (3) build school and
  community support for creating healthy school environments that are conducive
  to healthy eating and physical activity.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Team Nutrition Training Grants provide funding to assist State agencies in
  achieving the TN goal of improving children's lifelong eating and physical
  activity habits using the most current Dietary Guidelines for Americans. States
  may award sub-grants to local school districts following the established
  oversight procedure as well as the Guidance for Interpreting Cost Principles of
  Sub-Grants.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State agencies that administer the National School Lunch Program and/or Child
  and Adult Care Food Program may apply for a TN Training Grant. States may
  apply individually, or apply as a coalition within their State if there is an
  alternate State agency, or may establish a network and apply as a coalition of
  two or more different States.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  School and child care decision makers and caregivers, school and child care
  food service staff, and children, parents and teachers/educators.
Credentials/Documentation:
  State agencies must administer the National School Lunch Program and/or Child
  and Adult Care Food Program. Applicants must prove ability to provide a
  competent experienced staff and other resources to assure adequate
  development, supervision and execution of TN Training Grant activities. In
  addition, applicants are required to submit a written proposal which includes a
  description of the training issue or issues to be addon of the training issue or
  issues to be addressed, the proposed project approach, the rationale for it,
  specific program objectives, activities and budget. A properly executed
  Federal/State Agreement between the Food and Nutrition Service and the State
  agency is necessary before funds can be allocated.
Preapplication Coordination:
  State agencies are furnished with a copy of the Request for Applications (RFA)
  package on how to apply for a TN Training Grant. Additionally, the complete
  RFA is posted on the FNS Team Nutrition web site. This program is excluded
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants must submit a complete application to the Food and Nutrition
  Service by the deadline specified.
Award Procedure:
  All applications that meet the published deadline for submission will be
  screened for completeness and conformity to the requirements as announced in
  the RFA package. Grants are awarded by a competitive process via a technical
  review panel composed of Food and Nutrition Service staff which convenes to
  determine the technical merit of each grant application, provide a numerical
  score and make recommendations to selecting officials.
Deadlines:
  The deadlines for the TN Training Grants are specified in the Request for
  Applications package.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Once the application is received from the State agency, it is approximately 3
  months before announcement of the TN Training Grant awards.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  If selected for funding State agencies will be funded at the level requested after
  approval of the budget. There are no matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  FY 2005: September 30, 2005 - September 30, 2007. FY 2006: September 30,
  2006 -September 2009.
Reports:
  Specified progress and financial status reports and a final project report are to be
  submitted to the Food and Nutrition Service as stated in the Federal/State TN
  Training Grant Agreement.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of States,
  Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, State governments that
  expend Federal financial assistance of $500,000 or more within any fiscal year
  shall have either a single audit or (in certain cases) a program specific audit
  made for that year. Audits may be conducted less frequently under conditions
  specified in A-133.
Records:
  State agencies must maintain records as necessary to support the use of TN
  Training Grant funds in accordance with the Grant Agreement. Such records
