  must be retained for a period of 3 years after the date of submission of the final 
  report for the fiscal year to which the records pertain, except that if audit      
  findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three    
  year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the     
  audit.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-3539-0-1-605.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $9,381,761; FY 08 est $13,269,000; and FY 09 est not reported.      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  None.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  7 CFR Part 3015, 7 CFR Part 3016, 7 CFR Part 3017, 7 CFR Part 3018, 7 CFR          
  Part 3019, 7 CFR Part 3021 and 7 CFR Part 3052.                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  See the Food and Nutrition Service Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of       
  the Catalog.                                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Grants Management Division, Food and Nutrition Service, Department of              
  Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Telephone: (703) 305-2867. Contact: Lisa        
  Johnson, Grants Management Specialist.                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://teamnutrition.usda.gov/grants.html.                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  Technical Review Criteria, which are furnished to all applicants in the Request

                                                                                     
  for Applications package are used by the review panel to score and rank TN

                                                                                     
  Training Grant applications.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
10.576 SENIOR FARMERS MARKET NUTRITION                                               
PROGRAM                                                                              
                                                                                     
   (SFMNP)                                                                           
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, Public Law 107-171, 116 Stat.      
  334; Section 4402, 7 U.S.C. 3007.                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  (1) To provide fresh, nutritious, unprepared, locally grown fruits, vegetables and 
  herbs from farmers markets, roadside stands and community supported                
  agriculture programs to low-income seniors, and (2) to increase the consumption    
  of agricultural commodities by expanding, developing, or aiding in the             
  development and expansion of domestic farmers markets, roadside stands, and        
  community supported agriculture programs.                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grants are made to State departments such as health, agriculture and aging,        
  United States territories and Federally-recognized Indian tribal governments, or   
  any other agency approved by the chief executive officer of the State. Grant       
  funds may be used only to support the costs of the foods that are provided under   
  the SFMNP; no administrative funding is available.                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  All States, United States territories, and federally recognized Indian tribal      
  governments are eligible to apply for a grant.                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Persons eligible for the program are low-income seniors, generally defined as      
  individuals who are at least 60 years old and who have household incomes of not    
  more than 185% of the federal poverty income guidelines (published each year       
  by the Department of Health and Human). Some State agencies accept proof of        
  participation or enrollment in another means-tested program, such as the           
  Commodity Supplemental Food Program or Food Stamps, for SFMNP                      
  eligibility.                                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  In addition to submitting an application based on the requirements of the grant    
  solicitation, potential grantees must submit a standard SF-424, Application for    
  Federal Assistance, form. In addition, potential grantees must submit forms in     
  which they agree to comply with USDA regulations and Office of Management          
  and Budget circulars, including: Uniform Federal Assistance Regulations,           
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements          
  to State and Local Governments, Government-wide Debarment and Suspension;          
  Government-wide Requirements for Drug-free Workplace; and, New                     
  Restrictions on Lobbying.                                                          


                                                                                11-08
Preapplication Coordination:
  Each State applying for a SFMNP grant must designate a lead State agency.
  Each State may only submit one application on behalf of all interested State
  agencies, local governments, and non-profit organizations in the State.
  However, the lead State agency may make subgrants to other State agencies,
  Indian tribal governments, local governments, and non-profit organizations.
  Also, Indian tribal governments may make subgrants to local governments and
  non-profit organizations in the areas they serve. Interested agencies are
  encouraged to contact the Governor's office or Indian tribal governments to work
  together on an application. If multiple applications are received from more than
  one agency within the same State, FNS reserves the right to contact the
  Governor's office in that State for a final designation of the lead State agency.
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Under the competitive grant process, FNS announces the opportunity for States,
  including territories and Federally recognized Indian tribal governments, to
  submit grant applications for the SFMNP for each fiscal year in which funds are
  available. All applications are due by a specified date to FNS Headquarters.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed and evaluated by a panel of FNS staff to determine
  the technical merit of each grant application. Two separate panels evaluate
  applications; one panel reviews applications from current State agencies that are
  seeking expansion funds and another panel reviews applications from new State
  agencies. In the event that all available SFMNP funds for a given year are
  needed to provide base grants to currently participating State agencies,
  applications for program expansion or new programs will not be solicited by
  FNS. If the available funds are insufficient to meet the base grant levels for
  current SFMNP grantees, a pro-rata reduction will be applied to the grant levels
  awarded to all participating SFMNP State agencies. If additional funds become
  available for the SFMNP, such funds would first be distributed evenly among
  the current grantees to make whole their base grants for that fiscal year. Grant
  payments are made by a letter of credit.
Deadlines:
  A deadline for the submission of grant applications is set forth in the
  announcement by FNS. In general, applications are due approximately 60 days
  after the announcement to request grant applications.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  In general, FNS will announce SFMNP awards, and notify each State agency
  that did not receive an award, approximately 60 days after the date applications
  are due to FNS.
Appeals:
  All decisions by the FNS selecting officials are final. However, unsuccessful
  applicants are offered a debriefing to discuss the strengths and weaknesses of
  their proposals.
Renewals:
  Current State agencies are required to submit updated information annually.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  SFMNP grant funds are provided only to support the costs of the foods that are
  provided under the SFMNP; no administrative funding is provided.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  SFMNP funds are provided using Federal Reserve Bank letters of credit, for a
  program period that begins when the grant agreement is signed by FNS and ends
  on November 30 of each year.
Reports:
  Grantees are required to submit two financial status reports and two progress
  reports to FNS. The progress reports must indicate the number of outlets
  authorized to receive coupons (i.e., farmers, farmers markets, roadside stands
  and/or community supported agriculture programs) by category and the number
  of recipients who have been issued coupons.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," State governments
  that expend Federal financial assistance of $500,000 or more within any fiscal
  year shall have either a single audit or (in certain cases) a program specific audit
  made for that year. Audits may be conducted less frequently under conditions
  specified in A-133.
Records:
  State agencies must maintain records as necessary to support the SFMNP funds.
  Such records must be retained for a period of 3 years after the date of
  submission of the final report for the fiscal year to which the records pertain,
  except that if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be retained
  beyond the three year period as long as required for the resolution of the issues
  raised by the audit.
Account Identification:
  12-3507-0-1-605.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $16,203,484; FY 08 est $16,200,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
                                                                                    103
