  education, and to determine its impact on nutritional behavioral change among       
  WIC participants in North Dakota. A second project seeks to strengthen              
  Massachusetts WIC services by utilizing a behavioral approach to connect with       
  the emotions and values of WIC participants, to help families to adopt healthy      
  dietary, parenting, and physical activity behaviors. A third project is focused on  
  increasing infant breastfeeding among American Indians in Osage County,             
  Oklahoma, as a way of reducing/preventing obesity and diabetes which are            
  highly prevalent in this population.                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Technical review criteria, which are furnished to all applicants in the grant       
  solicitation package, are used by the review panel to score and rank EBT Grant      
  applications. Technical review criteria, which are furnished to all applicants in   
  the grant solicitation package, are used by the review panel to score and rank      
  grant applications.                                                                 
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
10.579 CHILD NUTRITION DISCRETIONARY GRANTS                                           
LIMITED AVAILABILITY                                                                  
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1751,           
  1758, 1759a,1761, 1765, 1766, 1769, 1772, 1773, 1779; School Breakfast              
  Program (SBP); Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, Public Laws 108-265,        
  104-193, 100-435, 99-661, 97-35; Special Milk Program (SMP); Child                  
  Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended; Child and Adult Care Food Program                
  (CACFP); 89 Stat. 522-525, Summer Food Service Program (SFSP).                      
                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

  NSLP: To assist States, through cash grants and food donations, in making the       
                                                                                      
  school lunch program available to school children and to encourage the domestic

                                                                                      
  consumption of nutritious agricultural commodities. SBP: To assist States in

                                                                                      
  providing a nutritious nonprofit breakfast service for school children, through

                                                                                      
  cash grants and food donations. SMP: To provide subsidies to schools and            
  institutions to encourage the consumption of fluid milk by children. CACFP: To      
  assist States, through grants-in-aid and other means, to initiate and maintain      
  nonprofit food service programs for children, elderly or impaired adults in         
  nonresidential day care facilities and children in emergency shelters. SFSP: To     
  assist States, through grants-in-aid and other means, to conduct nonprofit food     
  service programs for low-income children during the summer months and at            
  other approved times, when schools are out of session or are closed for vacation.   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Determined by the legislation providing the grants. Examples of grants in this

                                                                                      
  category include the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004 (P.L.

                                                                                      
  108-265) which authorized funds for State agencies to perform administrative

                                                                                      
  reviews and training of selected local education agencies participating in the      
  NSLP. The purpose of these funds is to improve program integrity and                
  administrative accuracy by decreasing administrative errors in those local          
  education agencies identified by the States as having problems or where             
  problems are likely to arise. The funds cannot be used to replace or augment        
  funding allocated for existing review requirements and they cannot be used for      
  local level expenses associated with administrative reviews or training activities. 
   In addition, P.L. 108-265 authorized funding for grants under the SFSP to          
  increase participation at congregate feeding sites through innovative approaches    
  for overcoming limited transportation resources in rural areas. These multi-year    
  grants were awarded in December 2005 on a competitive basis to Mississippi (6       
  sponsors), New York (7 sponsors), Oregon (8 sponsors), Texas (2 sponsors), and      
  West Virginia (7 sponsors). The projects may not comprise pre-award costs           
  associated with the development of a grant application or the cost of obtaining     
  food. Over the course of 3 years, $4 million will be available to the 5 States.     
  Additional examples of grants in this category include the Consolidated             
  Appropriations Resolution for Fiscal Year 2003 (Public Law 108-7) which             
  provided funds for eligible schools to cover costs associated with implementing     
  the SBP. The purpose of these grants was to increase the number of schools          
  participating in the SBP, particularly those serving low-income children. The       
  grants were used for State level costs associated with the administration of the    
  SBP grant activities and local level costs that were allowable, reasonable, and     
  necessary for an approved school to implement the SBP. The State agency could       
  retain no more than 17.5% of the grant award for State level costs associated       
  with the administration of the grant activities.                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Determined by the legislation providing the grants.                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Determined by the legislation providing the grants.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Determined by the legislation providing the grants. For example, the SBP

  Grants under Public Law 108-7 earmarked funds for a specific State, with the        
  remaining funds to be awarded competitively. Eleven States were identified that     
  had less than 60 percent of their NSLP Schools participating in the SBP over the    


                                                                                 11-08
  past 3 years. These States received an Application for SBP Start-up Grant Funds.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Instructions provided in Request for Application. This program is excluded
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application package should be sent to FNS Headquarters, Charles Okal, Chief,
  Grant Management Branch Food and Nutrition Service, Grants Management
  Division, 3101 Park Center Drive, Room 738, Alexandria, VA 22302 or
  submitted electronically via www.grants.gov http://.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  A grant review technical panel objectively reviews all complete applications
  according to established review criteria provided in the Request for Applications
  and makes recommendations to Agency officials, who make final award
  decisions.
Deadlines:
  Provided in Request for Application.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Determined by the legislation providing the grants.
Appeals:
  Determined by the legislation providing the grants.
Renewals:
  Determined by the legislation providing the grants. For example, a due date was
  established for the SBP and grants were awarded after review of all submissions
  by a selection panel from FNS and receipt of a Letter of Intent from the selected
  States. All State and local level SBP Grant funds had to be obligated by
  September 30, 2005 and expended by December 15, 2005.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Determined by the legislation providing the grants.
Reports:
  Instructions provided in Request for Application.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," State governments
  that expend Federal financial assistance of $500,000 or more within any fiscal
  year shall have either a single audit or (in certain cases) a program specific audit
  made for that year. Audits may be conducted less frequently under conditions
  specified in A-133.
Records:
  State agencies must maintain records as necessary to support the use of Grant
  funds in accordance with the Grant Agreement. Such records must be retained
  for a period of 3 years after the date of submission of the final report for the
  fiscal year to which the records pertain, except that if audit findings have not
  been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three year period as long
  as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
Account Identification:
  12-3539-0-1-605.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $2,997,672; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
  (NOTE: Availability limited based on eligibility requirements or duration by
  current year appropriations or authorizing legislation language and Agency
  priorities, determined by the legislation providing the grants.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Provided in Request for Application.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Determined by the legislation providing the grants.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR Part 3016, 7 CFR Part 3017, 7 CFR Part 3018.
Regional or Local Office:
  See the Food and Nutrition Service Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of
  the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Headquarters Office Grants Management Division, Food and Nutrition Service,
  U.S. Department of Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Contact: Charles Okal,
  Chief, Grants Management Branch, Grants Management Division at (703) 305-
  2854.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fns.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
10.580 SPECIAL NUTRITION ASSISTANCE PROGRAM
OUTREACH/PARTICIPATION PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
                                                                                    105
