AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Section, 17a(1), Food Stamp Act of 1977, 7 U.S.C. 2026(a)(a); Section 17(b)(1),       
  7 U.S.C. 2026(b)(1); Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, Public           
  Law 107-171.                                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  Outreach Grants: The purpose of these grants is to study effective strategies to      
  inform and educate eligible low-income people not currently participating in the      
  Special Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) (Formally known as the Food               
  Stamp Program) about the nutrition benefits of the program, eligibility rules, and    
  how to apply so that they can make an informed decision about whether to              
  participate in the program. Program Participation Grants: The purpose of the          
  Program Participation grants is to support efforts by State agencies and their        
  community-based and faith-based partners to develop and implement: 1) Simple          
  SNAP application and eligibility systems; or 2) Measures to improve access to         
  SNAP benefits by eligible applicants.                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants (Discretionary).                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Program Participation Grants: Funds for program participation projects are to be      
  used to improve the quality and efficiency of operations within SNAP offices          
  and no more than 25 percent of the grant funds may be used for outreach               
  activities. Applications must comply with criteria listed in the Request for          
  Application package. Outreach Grants: Funds are used for research into SNAP           
  outreach strategies to one or more of the targeted groups of people who are           
  eligible for the program but traditionally underused food stamp benefits.             
  Applications must comply with criteria listed in the Request for Application          
  package.                                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Outreach Grants: Public organizations, with the exception of State and local          
  SNAP agencies; and Private, nonprofit organizations; specific instructions            
  provided in Request for Application. Program Participation Grants: State              
  agencies that administer the SNAP, State or local governments; agencies that          
  provide health or welfare services; public health or educational entities and         
  private nonprofit entities such as community-based or faith-based organizations,      
  food banks, or other emergency feeding organizations.                                 
                                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Persons potentially eligible for SNAP benefits (low-income individuals or

  families).                                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                        
  Proof of nonprofit status is required of nonprofit organizations and institutions.

  Nonprofits must also submit an IRS Determination Letter, Form 501C (3).

                                                                                        
  Specific instructions provided in Request for Application.

                                                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                        
  Instructions provided in Request for Application. This program is excluded

                                                                                        
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                        
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Application package should be prepared in accordance with instructions in a

                                                                                        
  specific Request for Application (RFA) and sent to the grant officer identified in

                                                                                        
  the RFA.

                                                                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  A Grant Review Technical Panel objectively reviews all complete and timely            
  applications according to established review criteria provided in the Request for     
  Applications and makes recommendations to Agency officials, who make final            
  award decisions.                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Provided in Request for Application.                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                        
  Provided in Request for Application.

                                                                                        
Appeals:

                                                                                        
  None.

                                                                                        
Renewals:

  None.                                                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  None.                                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Provided in Request for Application.                                                  
Reports:                                                                                
  Instructions provided in Request for Application.                                     
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133; Audits of States,        
  Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations; State governments that                
  expend Federal financial assistance of $500,000 or more within any fiscal year        
  shall have either a single audit or (in certain cases) a program specific audit       
  made for that year. Audits may be conducted less frequently under conditions          
  specified in A-133.                                                                   
Records:                                                                                
  State agencies must maintain records as necessary to support the use of SNAP          
  Grant funds in accordance with the Grant Agreement. Such records must be              
  retained for a period of 3 years after the date of submission of the final report for 
  the fiscal year to which the records pertain, except that if audit findings have not  
                                                                                        
106                                                                               11-08

  been resolved, the records shall be retained beyond the three year period as long
  as required for the resolution of the issues raised by the audit.
Account Identification:
  12-3505-0-1-605.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $989,197; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Based on availability of funds.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Outreach Grants: http://www.fns.usda.gov/fsp/outreach/default.htm. Program
  Participation Grants: http://www.fns.usda.gov/fsp/government/program-
  improvement.htm.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Outreach Grants: 7 CFR Part 3016, 7 CFR Part 3017, 7 CFR Part 3018.
  Program Participation Grants: 7 CFR Part 3015, 7 CFR Part 3016, 7CFR Part
  3017, 7 CFR Part 3021, 7 CFR Part 3019.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Grants Management Division, Food and Nutrition Service, Department of
  Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Telephone: (703) 305-2867. Contact: Leslie
  Byrd, Grant Officer for Outreach Grants, or Lisa Johnson, Grant Officer for
  Program Participation Grants.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fns.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Grants: http://www.fns.usda.gov/fsp/outreach/grants/2004/2005-summary.htm
  and http://www.fns.usda.gov/fsp/outreach/grants/2004/summary.htm. Program
  Participation Grants: http://www.fns.usda.gov/fsp/government/participation-
  grants.htm. www.fns.usda.gov/fsp/government/06-participation-grants.htm.
  www.fns.usda.gov/fsp/government/pdf/2007-participation-grants.pdf.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The review panel to score and rank applications uses Technical Review Criteria,
  which are furnished to all applicants in the Request for Applications package.
10.582 FRESH FRUIT AND VEGETABLE PROGRAM
   (FFVP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOOD AND NUTRITION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  National School Lunch Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 1769.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist States, through cash grants, in providing free fresh fruits and
  vegetables to school children in designated participating schools beginning in
  school year 2004/2005.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Under Section 18(g) of the National School Lunch Act, Federally appropriated
  Fresh Fruit and Vegetable Program funds are available to a specified number of
  State agencies: 25 schools in each of eight designated states (Indiana, Iowa,
  Michigan, Mississippi, North Carolina, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Washington); and
  25 schools among three Indian Tribal Organizations in 3 designated states
  (Arizona, South Dakota, and New Mexico). Participating public and nonprofit
  private schools of high school grade or under are reimbursed free to school
  children outside of the lunch or breakfast food service periods. All participating
  schools must agree to serve fresh fruits and vegetables free to all enrolled
  children, and to publicize fresh fruit and vegetable availability within the school.
  Funds are allocated to each State based on the enrollment of schools selected for
  participation.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State agencies specified in Section 18(g) of the National School Lunch Act or
  selected by the Secretary of Agriculture in accordance with the conditions
  specified in Section 18(g), including those State agencies representing Indian
  Tribal Organizations; and public and nonprofit private schools of high school
  grade and under participating in the National School Lunch Program and
  selected by their State agencies to participate in the FFVP. In selecting schools,
  as required by Section 18(g), to the maximum extent practical States must
  ensure that the majority of schools have 50 percent or more students eligible for
  free or reduced price meals and give priority to schools that have partnerships
  with non-Federal resources.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All children enrolled in schools participating in the Fresh Fruit and Vegetable
  Program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicant organizations must be currently participating in the National School
  Lunch Program. Applicant organizations must furnish evidence of nonprofit
