  status. Costs will be determined in accordance with USDA Uniform Federal           
  Assistance Regulations (7 CFR Part 3015 or 3016 and 3019).                         
Preapplication Coordination:

  The school-level application prototype form was furnished by FNS and/or            
  modified by the State agency. An applicant should consult the State office or      
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for the     
  National School Lunch Program for more information on the process the State        
  requires to be followed for the FFVP. This program is excluded from coverage       
  under E.O. 12372.                                                                  
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Public or private nonprofit schools in the designated States make application to   
  the State Agency. Appropriate forms may be obtained from this agency.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The State agency reviews the written application of a school based on criteria     
  described in Section 18(g) of the National School Lunch Act and other State        
  agency selection criteria. The State agency selects a total of 25 schools. The     
  State agency then enters into an agreement with the selected schools for their     
  participation in the program.                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts or           
  Headquarters Office section below.                                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Agreements become effective upon approval by the State Agency.                     
Appeals:                                                                             
  None. The State agency is responsible for selecting schools based on applicable    
  criteria.                                                                          
Renewals:                                                                            
  Annual; amended as necessary.                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Permanent, amended as necessary, described by law.                                 
Reports:                                                                             
  State agencies must ensure that each school food authority with participating      
  schools maintains and submits itemized reimbursement claim forms to the State      
  agency inorder to receive reimbursement. State agencies must submit                
  expenditure data quaeterly via the 269A. States must submit final fiscal year      
  grant close out reports within 120 days after the end of the grant period.         
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of            
  States, Local Governments, and Non-profit Organizations," State and local          
  governments, and nonprofit organizations that expended $500,000 or more            
  under Federal awards within any fiscal year shall have either a single audit or (in
  certain cases) a program specific audit made for that year. Audits may be          
  conducted less frequently under conditions specified in A-133. The FFVP is         
  subject to audits.                                                                 
Records:                                                                             
  Schools must maintain full and accurate records of the FFVP. Such records shall    
  be retained for a period of 3 years after the end of the fiscal year to which they 
  pertain, except that if audit findings have not been resolved, the records shall be
  retained beyond the 3-year period as long as required for the resolution of audit  
  findings.                                                                          
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-3539-0-1-605.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  FY 07 $9,036,050; FY 08 est $12,410,000; and FY 09 est not reported.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  None.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  None.

                                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Headquarters Office:

  Director, Child Nutrition Division, Food and Nutrition Service, Department of      
                                                                                     
  Agriculture, Alexandria, VA 22302. Telephone: (703) 305-2590. Contact:

                                                                                     
  Cynthia Long, Director, Special Nutrition Programs, Food and Nutrition Service,

                                                                                     
  Alexandria, VA 22302. Telephone: (703) 305-2161.

                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

                                                                                     
  Child Nutrition Division: www.fns.usda.gov/cnd.

RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  10.555, National School Lunch Program; 10.553, School Breakfast Program;           
  10.857, State Bulk Fuel Revolving Fund Grants.                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  None.                                                                              
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
10.600 FOREIGN MARKET DEVELOPMENT
COOPERATOR PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, Title VII, 7 U.S.C. 5721, et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To create, maintain and expand long-term export markets for U.S. agricultural
  products through cost-share assistance and the opportunity to work closely with
  FAS and its overseas offices.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Cooperator funds are authorized through program agreements with nonprofit
  U.S. trade associations called Cooperators, that provide for partial
  reimbursement of generic promotional activities in a Unified Export Strategy
  application approved by the Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS), the agency
  which administers the program for the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). In
  general, Cooperator funds may be used only in direct support of activities
  conducted outside the United States. Types of activities that may be funded
  include trade servicing, market research, and technical assistance to actual or
  potential foreign purchasers of U.S. commodities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) enters into agreements with those
  nonprofit U.S. trade organizations that have the broadest possible producer
  representation of the commodity being promoted. To be approved, an
  applicant's proposal must indicate how it can effectively contribute to the
  creation, expansion, or maintenance of markets abroad. FAS considers a number
  of factors when reviewing proposed projects. These factors include: (1) The
  applicant's willingness to contribute resources including cash and goods and
  services of the U.S. industry and foreign third party; (2) the ability of the
  organization to provide an experienced U.S.-based staff and with technical and
  international trade expertise to ensure adequate development, supervision and
  execution of the proposed project; (3) the degree to which the proposed project
  is likely to contribute to the development, expansion, or maintenance of foreign
  markets; and (4) the degree to which the strategic plan is coordinated with other
  private or U.S. government-funded market development projects.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Preference is given to nonprofit U.S. trade organizations which are nationwide in
  membership and scope.
Credentials/Documentation:
  U.S. applicants must prove the ability to provide a competent experienced staff
  and other resources to assure adequate development, supervision, and execution
  of promotional activities. Applicants must submit a written export strategy
  which provides a brief discussion of the commodity for which an agreement is
  being requested and a description of proposed activities including the foreign
  countries in which they will be conducted. Applicants must also submit their
  Internal Revenue Service tax exempt identification number, a Dun and
  Bradstreet Data Universal Numbering System (DUNS) number, a description of
  the membership of the applicant organization, a description of the organizations
  management and administrative capability, the degree to which membership
  represents national production, an estimate of the level of Government funds
  required, and the extent to which industry resources are available to match
  Government expenditures. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB
  Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Each year the availability of funds is announced in a Federal Register notice. At
  this time a written export strategy should be submitted to the Director,
  Marketing Operations Staff, FAS. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed against the allocation criteria and factors set forth in 7
  CFR part 1484 and the Federal Register program announcement. CCC notifies
  each applicant of the final disposition of its application and also issues a public
  announcement concerning the allocation of resources among the applicant
  organizations. Each approved applicant receives a program agreement and an
  allocation/marketing plan approval letter which specifies any special terms and
  conditions applicable to a cooperator's program. Final agreement occurs when
  both the participating organization and the Administrator of FAS in the
  Administrator's capacity as Vice President, CCC, sign the program agreement.
Deadlines:
  Application deadline is announced in the form of a Federal Register notice.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
                                                                                   107
