Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable. Program commitments are made on a program year basis.                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  A cooperator's contribution requirement will be specified in the export strategy     
  approval letter. Cooperators must contribute at least 50 percent of the value of     
  resources provided by CCC for activities conducted under the project agreement.      
  Such contribution may be in the form of cash, goods or services.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Agreements generally include a twelve-month promotional effort and a provision       
  for program evaluation by an independent third party. Funds awarded in any           
  given fiscal year are typically available for two additional years.                  
Reports:                                                                               
  Expense reports are submitted to claim reimbursement for expenses incurred.          
  Trip reports are submitted within 45 days of completion of travel. A summary         
  of expenses by country and cost code as well as contributions are submitted no       
  later than January 31 following the end of the marketing plan year.                  
Audits:                                                                                
  Cooperator accounts are reviewed periodically, but normally at least every two       
  years, by representatives of the Compliance Review Staff, FAS. Audits and            
  reviews are also conducted sporadically by representatives of the Office of          
  Inspector General and Government Accounting Office. Accounts and records             
  must be available for inspection or audit at any reasonable time.                    
Records:                                                                               
  Records must be maintained for not less than 3 years after completion or             
  termination of the agreement or not less than 5 full calendar years following the    
  year of the transaction that is evidenced by such an account or record that took     
  place, whichever is sooner.                                                          
Account Identification:                                                                
  12-4336-0-3-999.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Direct payments) FY 07 $34,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est          
  not reported.                                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $11,000 to $7,000,000; $1,243,000.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Not available.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  7 CFR Part 1484.                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Deputy Administrator, Commodity and Marketing Programs, Foreign                      
  Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.               
  Telephone: (202) 720-4761.                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/mos/programs/fmdprogram.asp.                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                       
  10.601, Market Access Program.

                                                                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  (1) Promotion of U.S. soybeans through soymeal livestock feeding trials

                                                                                       
  worldwide, and production and distribution of technical and trade publications

                                                                                       
  throughout South America and South Asia directed towards institutional users;

                                                                                       
  (2) promotion of U.S. forest products through trade exhibits in the United

                                                                                       
  Kingdom, participation in the deliberations of international codes and standards

                                                                                       
  organizations, and trade seminars worldwide demonstrating American building          
  techniques; (3) promotion of U.S. seed through participation in international        
  regulatory organizations to mitigate both tariff and nontariff barriers to U.S. seed 
  exports; and (4) promotion of U.S. poultry through trade seminars in Mexico.         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Allocations are made in a manner that effectively support the strategic decision-    
  making initiatives of the Government Performance and Results Act (GPRA) of           
  1993. In assessing whether the applicant will effectively create, expand or          
  maintain foreign markets, the following factors are considered: (1) effectiveness    
  of program management; (2) past and present contribution levels; (3) soundness       
  of the strategic plan; (4) past export performance; and (5) past demand              
  expansion performance (6) future demand expansion goals; and (7) accuracy of         
  past demand expansion projections.                                                   
                                                                                       
10.601 MARKET ACCESS PROGRAM                                                           
                                                                                       
      (MAP)                                                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Agricultural Trade Act of 1978, as amended, Section 203.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To encourage the creation, maintenance, and expansion of commercial export           
  markets for U.S. agricultural commodities through cost-share assistance to           
  eligible trade organizations that implement a foreign market development             
  program.

108                                                                              11-08

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Market Access Program (MAP) funds are authorized through program
  agreements that provide for partial reimbursement of eligible promotional
  expenses in a Unified Export Strategy application approved by the Foreign
  Agricultural Service (FAS), the agency which administers the program for the
  Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). MAP participants may receive
  assistance for either generic or brand promotion activities. Program funds help
  finance activities such as consumer advertising, point of sale demonstrations,
  public relations, trade servicing activities, participation in trade fairs and
  exhibits, market research and technical assistance.
Applicant Eligibility:
  To be approved, applicants must be: (1) A nonprofit U.S. agricultural trade
  organization; (2) a nonprofit State regional trade group; (3) a U.S. agricultural
  cooperative; (4) a State agency; or (5) a U.S. commercial entity that is a small-
  sized entity (other than a cooperative or producer association).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  CCC will enter into MAP agreements only where the eligible agricultural
  commodity is comprised of at least 50 percent U.S. origin content by weight,
  exclusive of added water.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants are required to provide a competent, experienced staff and other
  resources to assure adequate development, supervision, and execution of
  promotion activities. All applicants must submit a written proposal which
  provides a brief discussion of the commodity for which assistance is requested;
  the proposed program with a justification; and a strategic plan. In addition, all
  applicants must submit a statement certifying that any CCC resources received
  will supplement, but not supplant, any private or third party funds or other
  contributions to program activities. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB
  Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Each year the availability of funds is announced in a Federal Register notice. At
  this time a written export strategy should be submitted to the Director,
  Marketing Operations Staff, FAS. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed against the allocation criteria and factors set forth in 7
  CFR Part 1485. CCC notifies each applicant of the final disposition of its
  application and also issues a public announcement concerning the allocation of
  resources among the applicant organizations. Each approved applicant receives
  a program agreement and allocation approval letter which specifies any special
  terms and conditions applicable to a participant's program. Final agreement
  occurs when both the participating organization and the Administrator of FAS in
  the Administrator's capacity as Vice President, CCC, sign the program
  agreement.
Deadlines:
  Application deadline is announced in the form of a Federal Register notice.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable. Program commitments are made on a program year basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  A participant's contribution requirement will be specified in the export strategy
  approval letter. Participants must contribute at least 10 percent of the value of
  resources provided by CCC for generic promotions. Such contributions may be
  in the form of cash, goods or services. In the case of brand promotions, a
  participant must contribute at least 50 percent of the total cost of such brand
  promotions. The brand promotion program is by its very nature a matching
  funds program.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Agreements generally include a twelve-month promotional effort and a provision
  for program evaluation by an independent third party. Funds awarded in any
  given fiscal year are typically available for two additional years.
Reports:
  Expense reports are submitted to claim reimbursement for promotional expenses.
   Trip reports are submitted not later than 45 days after completion of travel.
  Research reports and end-of-year contribution reports are submitted no later than
  6 months after the end of a participant's activity plan year.
Audits:
  Participant accounts are reviewed as needed, but normally at least every two
  years, by representatives of the Compliance Review Staff (CRS) of FAS. Audits
  and reviews are also conducted sporadically by representatives of the Office of
  Inspector General and the Government Accounting Office. Accounts and
  records must be available for inspection or audit at any reasonable time.
