Records:                                                                             
  Must be maintained for not less than 3 years after completion or termination of    
  the agreement or not more than 5 full calendar years following the year of the     
  transaction that is evidenced by such an account or record that took place,        
  whichever is sooner.                                                               
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-4336-0-3-999.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Direct payments) FY 07 $100,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est       
  not reported.                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  From $22,000 to $9,611,000; $1,375,000.                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  7 CFR 1485.                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Deputy Administrator, Commodity and Marketing Programs, Foreign                    
  Agricultural Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington DC 20250.              
  Telephone: (202) 720-4761.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/mos/programs/map.asp.                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  10.600, Foreign Market Development Cooperator Program.                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Generic programs: (1) Promotion of U.S. forest products in Europe through

                                                                                     
  conferences and demonstration projects; (2) promotion of sunflower kernel in

                                                                                     
  Germany through trade shows, advertising and public relations; (3) promotion of

                                                                                     
  U.S. potatoes in Japan through consumer and trade advertising; (4) familiarizing

                                                                                     
  world trading partners with the U.S. grain trading system in order to encourage

                                                                                     
  easier and more fruitful trade. Brand identified promotion program: (1)

                                                                                     
  Promotion of branded citrus worldwide, especially in the Far East and Europe;

                                                                                     
  (2) promotions of branded almonds by increasing consumer awareness in Japan,

                                                                                     
  France and the United Kingdom; and (3) promotions by State groups of a variety

                                                                                     
  of high value products worldwide.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  Allocations will only be made to applicants that present the best opportunity for

                                                                                     
  developing or expanding export markets for U.S. agricultural commodities. In

                                                                                     
  assessing the applicant, the following factors are considered: (1) effectiveness of
  program management; (2) soundness of accounting procedures; (3) the nature of      
  the organization; (4) prior export promotion or direct export experience; (5)      
  previous MAP funding and performance; (6) adequacy of the applicant's              
  strategic plan; (7) past and present contribution levels; (8) export goals; and the
  (9) accuracy of past projected export goals. In providing assistance for brand     
  promotions, priority will be given to small-sized entities. Qualifying products    
  whose composition is less than 50 percent U.S. origin are not eligible.            
                                                                                     
10.603 EMERGING MARKETS PROGRAM                                                      
                                                                                     
   (EMP)                                                                             
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  The Emerging Markets Program is authorized by the Food, Agriculture,               
  Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990 (FACT Act), as amended by the Federal          
  Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (FAIR Act) Section 1542 (d).        
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The primary objective of the Emerging Markets Program is to promote, enhance       
  or expand the exports of U.S. agricultural commodities to overseas emerging        
  markets through cost-share assistance to eligible organizations that implement     
  an Emerging Markets Program. The program supports the activities of U.S.           
  agricultural and agribusiness firms--particularly those that may need assistance   
  in obtaining or maintaining access in overseas markets. The program is aimed at    
  improving market access opportunities for agricultural products or processes in    
  low- to middle-income countries that are likely to emerge as promising export      
  markets in the near to medium term.                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Emerging Markets Program funds are authorized through project agreements           
  that serve as binding instruments and create a legal obligation on the part of the 
  Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC) to make appropriated funds available to         
  the participant. The agreement creates a cooperative relationship between CCC      
  and the implementor with each side contributing resources to support               
  achievement of mutual goals. Program funds help finance activities such as         
  feasibility studies, market research, sectorial assessments, orientation visits,   
  specialized training, and business workshops. The Program is not intended for      


                                                                                11-08
  projects targeted at end-user consumers. Ineligible activities include in-store
  promotions, restaurant promotions, branded product promotions, administrative
  and operational expenses for trade shows and advertising, except in connection
  with specific technical assistance activities such as training seminars.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must be a: (1) U. S. agricultural or agribusiness organization --
  nonprofit, trade association, university, consultant group (under certain
  conditions), (2) State Department of Agriculture, or (3) USDA agency (or other
  Federal agency involved in agricultural issues).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  (1) a U. S. agricultural or agribusiness organization -- nonprofit, trade
  association, university, consultant group (under certain conditions), (2) State
  Department of Agriculture, or (3) USDA agency (or other Federal agency
  involved in agricultural issues).
Credentials/Documentation:
  All eligible applicants must submit a written proposal in accordance with the
  guidelines set forth each year in the Federal Register. This program is excluded
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB
  Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Each year solicitation of proposals is announced in the Federal Register. At that
  time written project proposals should be submitted to the Director, Marketing
  Operations Staff, Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS).
Award Procedure:
  FAS will notify each applicant in writing of the final disposition of its
  application. For approvals, letters will contain the notice of approval and any
  qualifications or adjustments made to the original proposal. For rejections,
  letters will contain details explaining the reasons why the proposals were not
  approved for funding. FAS will send an Agreement to each approved applicant.
  The Agreement will specify the terms and conditions applicable to the project,
  including the levels of program funding and cost-share contribution. An
  applicant who accepts the terms and conditions contained in the Agreement
  should so indicate by having the appropriate authorizing officer sign the
  Agreement and submit it to the Director, Marketing Operations Staff, FAS,
  USDA. The Agreement will become effective when the Deputy Administrator
  signs the Agreement on behalf of CCC.
Deadlines:
  Application deadline is announced in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 120 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Continuation or expansion of successful projects funded by the Program may be
  considered for future funding through separate application. Funding may be
  considered for projects which have already begun with the support and financial
  assistance of a private entity, and for which government funding for
  continuation of the project is justified. Such proposals must meet the criteria of
  the Emerging Markets Program, including cost-sharing.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  All applications must include an element of cost share. This is the amount of
  funding U.S. private organizations are willing to commit from their own
  resources along with those of the Program to seek export business in an
  emerging market.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Agreements generally include a beginning and end date. Projects are normally
  funded for one year although some multi-year projects may befunded by the
  Program, usually on a year-to-year basis.
Reports:
  Implementors are required to submit regular progress reports, depending upon
  the length and nature of the project. Progress reports are required for all projects
  with a duration of at least six months. Final reports are to be submitted 60 days
  after completion of the project, both on diskette and in hard copy.
Audits:
  Participant projects are reviewed as needed, but normally at least every two
  years, by representatives of the Compliance Review Staff (CRS) of FAS. Audits
  and reviews are also conducted sporadically by representatives of the Office of
  the Inspector General and the General Accounting Office. Accounts and records
  must be available for inspection or audit at any reasonable time.
Records:
  Records must be maintained for at least three years after completion or
  termination of the Agreement or not more than five full calendar years following
  the year of the transaction that is evidenced by such an account or record that
  took place, whichever is sooner.
Account Identification:
  12-4336-0-3-999.
Obligations:
  (Direct payments) FY 07 $10,000,000; FY 08 est available; and FY 09 est not
                                                                                     109
