  reported.                                                                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Projects are funded on a project by project basis and generally range from           
  $5,000 to $500,000.                                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  EMP receives a large number of project proposals, from both government and           
  private organizations, for funding each year, well beyond the amount of funding      
  available. The Program has also seen significant increases in the level of private   
  participants cost share. In order to operate more efficiently and ease the           
  application and reimbursement process for participants, EMP has converted            
  these functions into an online system. For fiscal year 2005, allocations were        
  made to 71 organizations. Approved activities ranged from market research and        
  training to addressing technical barriers such as in biotechnology and in            
  promoting direct sales. For example, recent trade development activities             
  conducted by the Almond Board of California with EMP funding support                 
  include technical seminars for key Russian trade contacts, the production of         
  technical materials, and trade show participation. In addition, industry has         
  funded an in-country representative, website development, and a consumer             
  education program for Russia. As a result, U.S. almond exports to Russia             
  increased dramatically in 2003/2004 to more than 14.2 million pounds, a 58%          
  increase over 2002/2003.                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  The Program currently operates under guidelines.                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Director, Marketing Operations Staff, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department       
  of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone (202) 720-4327.                      
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/mos/em-markets/em-markets.html.                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  10.600, Foreign Market Development Cooperator Program; 10.601, Market                
  Access Program.                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  (1) Study of Distribution, Logistical Bottlenecks for Hi-value Products, (2)         
  Technical Seminars on the Proper Storage and Handling of U.S. Pears, (3) Grain       
  Warehouse Receipts Training Seminar, (4) Resolution of SPS and Quality               
  Problems: Translation, Interpretation, Analysis, (5) Trade Education Seminars        
  for Storage and Handling of California Grapes.                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  There are two elements that every private sector proposal must contain in order      
  to be considered for funding under the Program: 1. Cost-share. This is the           
  amount of funding U.S. private organizations are willing to commit from their        
  own resources along with those of the Program to seek export business in an          
  emerging market. No proposal will be considered without the element of cost-         
  sharing, regardless of the underlying value of a proposal (the Emerging Markets      
  Program complements, not supplants, export efforts of the U.S. private sector).      
  A minimum or maximum amount of cost share is not specified. Rather, the              
  degree of commitment to a proposed project represented by the percentage and         
  type of private funding is a critical factor in determining which proposals will be  
  funded under the Program. The type of cost-sharing is also not specified. It may     
  be professional time of staff assigned to the project, or actual cash investment.    
  Cost-sharing is not needed for government proposals, but it is required from         
  private organizations who are party to a joint government/private proposal. 2.       
  Justification for Federal Funding. What other sources of funding might be            
  available? Why is funding from the Program required? What specifically could         
  not be accomplished if funding were not provided?                                    
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
10.604 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR SPECIALTY                                              
CROPS PROGRAM                                                                          
      (TASC)                                                                           
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  The Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops Program is authorized by Section        
  3205 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, Public Law 107-          
  171.                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops Program is designed to assist U.S.      
  organizations by providing funding for projects that address sanitary,               
  phytosanitary, and technical barriers that prohibit or threaten the export of U.S.   
                                                                                       
  specialty crops.

                                                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops Program funds are authorized through        
                                                                                       
  project agreements that include the maximum amount that may be reimbursed

                                                                                       
  and identify terms and conditions pursuant to which the Commodity Credit



110                                                                              11-08

  Corporation (CCC) will reimburse costs. The agreements also outline any
  specific responsibilities of the participant. Types of activities that may be
  funded under this program include initial pre-clearance programs, export
  protocol and work plan support, seminars and workshops, study tours, field
  surveys, development of pest lists, pest and disease research, database
  development, reasonable logistical and administrative support, travel and per
  diem expenses.
Applicant Eligibility:
  To be approved, an applicant must be a: (1) U.S. government agency; (2) U.S.
  State government agency; (3) U.S. non-profit trade association; (4) U.S.
  university; (5) U.S. agricultural cooperative; (6) U.S. private company or (7) any
  other U.S. organization.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The Technical Assistance for Specialty Crops Program is intended to benefit the
  represented U.S. industry rather than a specific company or brand.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must submit a written proposal which includes, but is not limited to,
  the following: a brief discussion of the commodity for which funding is
  requested; a market assessment, including a description of the specific export
  barrier to be addressed; a description of the activities planned to address the
  export barrier; and export information that includes performance measures,
  benchmark performance, and the viability of long-term sales to the market. This
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB
  Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Each year the availability of funds is publicly announced in a Federal Register
  notice. Following the announcement, applications for funding may be submitted
  to the Director, Marketing Operations Staff, Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS).
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed against the allocation criteria and factors specified in 7
  CFR 1487. The CCC notifies each applicant of the final disposition of its
  application and also issues a public announcement concerning the allocation of
  resources among the applicant organizations. Each approved applicant receives
  a program agreement and allocation approval letter that specifies any special
  terms and conditions applicable to a participant's program. Final agreement
  occurs when both the participating organization and the Deputy Administrator
  for Commodity and Marketing Programs, FAS, sign the program agreement.
Deadlines:
  The application deadline is stated in the form of a Federal Register notice.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 30-90 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable. Program commitments are made on a program year basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Although highly encouraged, financial and in-kind support from the participant
  is not required. Such contributions may be in the form of cash or goods and
  services.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Agreements generally include the project and a provision for project evaluation.
  Funds awarded in any given fiscal year are typically available for additional
  years.
Reports:
  Claims are submitted to receive reimbursement of approved expenditures
  associated with completing program projects. Evaluation reports are submitted
  by the participant within six months of completion of an approved project.
Audits:
  Participant projects are reviewed by representatives of the Compliance Review
  Staff (CRS) of FAS. Audits and reviews may be conducted sporadically by
  representatives of the Office of the Inspector General and the General
  Accounting Office. Accounts and records must be available for inspection and
  audit by authorized officials of the U.S. government upon request.
Records:
  Records must be maintained for not less than 3 years after completion or
  termination of the agreement or not more than 5 full calendar years following the
  year the transaction that is evidenced in an account or record that took place,
  whichever is sooner.
Account Identification:
  12-4336-0-3-999.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $2,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Projects funded on a project by project basis for up to $250,000 per year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
