  7 CFR 1487.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Director, Marketing Operations Staff, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department       
  of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-4327.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/mos/tasc/tasc.asp.                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  10.600, Foreign Market Development Cooperator Program; 10.601 Market                 
  Access Program.                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Pre-clearance program for apples exported to Mexico.                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The FAS will consider the following criteria in evaluating proposals: (1) The        
  identification and nature of the specific export barrier and the extent to which     
  the proposal is likely to successfully remove, resolve, or mitigate that barrier; (2)
  The potential trade impact of the proposed project on market retention, market       
  access, and market expansion, including the potential for expanding commercial       
  sales in the targeted market; (3) The completeness and viability of the proposal;    
  (4) The applicant organization's ability to provide an experienced staff with the    
  technical and trade experience necessary to economically and effectively execute     
  the proposal; (5) The extent to which the proposal is targeted to an eligible        
  export market in which the United States is generally competitive; (6) The cost      
  of the project and the amount of other (non-TASC) resources specifically             
  dedicated to the project, including cash and goods and services of the U.S.          
  industry and foreign third parties; (7) The degree to which time is essential in     
  addressing the specific export barriers; and, (8) In cases where the CCC receives    
  multiple proposals from different applicants which address essentially the same      
  barrier, the nature of the applicant organization will be taken into consideration,  
  with a greater weight given to those organizations with the broadest base of         
  producer representation.                                                             
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
10.605 QUALITY SAMPLES PROGRAM                                                         
   (QSP)                                                                               
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  The Quality Samples Program is authorized by Section 5(f) of the Commodity           
  Credit Corporation (CCC) Charter Act, 15 U.S.C. 714c(f).                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The Quality Samples Program is designed to encourage the development and             
  expansion of export markets for U.S. agricultural commodities by assisting U.S.      
  entities in providing commodity samples to potential foreign importers to            
  promote a better understanding and appreciation for the high quality of U.S.         
  agricultural commodities.                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Quality Samples Program funds are authorized through project agreements that         
  include the maximum amount that may be reimbursed and identify terms and             
  conditions pursuant to which CCC will reimburse costs. Under the QSP,                
  participants may be reimbursed for certain costs of purchasing and transporting      
  commodity samples. Although providing technical assistance is required for all       
  projects, costs of providing the actual technical assistance is not reimbursed       
  under the QSP.                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  To be approved, an applicant must be a U.S. private or government entity.            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  The Quality Samples Program is intended to benefit a represented U.S. industry       
  rather than a specific company or brand.                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicants must submit a written proposal which includes, but is not limited to,     
  the following: a description of the organization and its membership; a               
  description of the organization's prior export promotion experience; a               
  description of the organization's experience in implementing an appropriate          
  trade/technical assistance component; an assessment of the market; a long-term       
  strategy in the market; amount of funding requested; a brief description of the      
  specific market development trade constraint or opportunity to be addressed by       
  the project; a sample description; and the importer's role in the project regarding  
  handling and processing the commodity samples. This program is excluded from         
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB                
  Circular No. A-102.                                                                  
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Each year the availability of funds is announced in a Federal Register notice. At    
  that time, proposals should be submitted to the Director, Marketing Operations       
                                                                                       
                                                                                  11-08
  Staff, Foreign Agricultural Service (FAS).
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are reviewed against the allocation criteria and factors specified in the
  Federal Register notice. CCC notifies each applicant of the final disposition of
  its application and also issues a public announcement concerning the allocation
  of resources among the applicant organizations. Each approved applicant
  receives a program agreement and allocation approval letter that specifies any
  special terms and conditions applicable to a participant's program. Final
  agreement occurs when both the participating organization and the Deputy
  Administrator for Commodity and Marketing Programs, FAS, sign the program
  agreement.
Deadlines:
  Application deadline is announced in the form of a Federal Register notice.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 30-90 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable. Program commitments are made on a program year basis.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Although highly encouraged, financial and in-kind support from the participant
  is not required. Such contributions may be in the form of cash or goods and
  services.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Agreements generally include a twelve-month promotional effort and a
  requirement for program evaluation. Funds awarded in any given fiscal year
  may be made available for a longer period.
Reports:
  Reimbursement claims are submitted to claim reimbursement of costs associated
  with completing approved projects. Evaluation reports are submitted within 90
  days of expiration of the agreement.
Audits:
  Participant projects are reviewed by representatives of the Compliance Review
  Staff (CRS) of FAS. Audits and reviews may be conducted sporadically by
  representatives of the Office of the Inspector General and the General
  Accounting Office. Accounts and records must be available for inspection and
  audit at any reasonable time.
Records:
  Records must be maintained for not less than 3 years after completion or
  termination of the agreement or not more than 5 full calendar years following the
  year the transaction that is evidenced by such an account or record that took
  place, whichever is sooner.
Account Identification:
  12-4336-0-3-999.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $2,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Projects funded on a project by project basis for up to $75,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  For the 2005 program year, allocations were made to 20 organizations.
  Example: The U.S. Wheat Associates, through the use of QSP funded technical
  assistance activities, successfully introduced U.S. Desert Durum into the
  Venezulen market. As a direct result of the QSP funded programs, Venezuela,
  who exclusively imported Canadian durum wheat, imported 18,200 tons of U.S.
  wheat.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Marketing Operations Staff, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department
  of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-4327.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/mos/programs/qsp.asp.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.600, Foreign Market Development Cooperator Program; 10.601, Market
  Access Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Shipment of samples of peanut flour to China for a technical assistance
  activity; (2) brown rice sample shipped to Russia that was used to train rice
  millers to mill U.S. brown rice; and (3) a sample of orange and grapefruit
  concentrate shipped to China for a processing seminar.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  FAS uses the following criteria when evaluating QSP proposals: (1) the ability
  of the organization to provide an experienced staff with the requisite technical
  and trade experience to execute the proposal; (2) the extent to which the
  proposal is targeted to a market in which the United States is generally
  competitive; (3) the potential for expanding commercial sales in the proposed
  market; (4) the nature of the specific market constraint or opportunity involved
  and how well it is addressed by the proposal; (5) the extent to which the
                                                                                   111
