  importer's contribution in terms of handling and processing enhances the               
  potential outcome of the project; (6) the amount of reimbursement requested and        
  the organization's willingness to contribute resources, including cash and goods       
  and services of the U.S. industry and foreign third parties; and (7) and how well      
  the proposed technical assistance component assures that performance trials will       
  effectively demonstrate the intended end-use benefit.                                  
                                                                                         
                                                                                         
10.606 FOOD FOR PROGRESS

                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Food for Progress Act of 1985.                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  Agriculture commodities are provided to developing countries and emerging              
  democracies committed to introducing and expanding free enterprise in the              
  agricultural sector.                                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  The following restrictions on commodity use and distribution apply: (a) The            
  Cooperating Sponsor may use the commodities provided only in accordance                
  with the terms of the Program Agreement. (b) Commodities shall not be                  
  distributed within the importing country on the basis of political affiliation,        
  geographic location, or the ethnic, tribal or religious identity or affiliations of the
  potential consumers or recipients.(c) Commodities shall not be distributed,            
  handled or allocated by military forces without specific CCC authorization. d)         
  In the event that its participation in the program terminates, the non-government      
  cooperating sponsor will safeguard any undistributed commodities and sales             
  proceeds and dispose of such commodities and proceeds as directed by CCC.              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                   
  A Cooperating Sponsor may be either: (a) A foreign government; (b) An entity           
  registered with the Agency for International Development (AID) in accordance           
  with AID regulations; or (c) An entity that demonstrates to CCC's satisfaction:        
  (1) Organizational experience and resources available to implement and manage          
  the type of program proposed, i.e., targeted food assistance or sale of                
  commodities for economic development activities; (2) Experience working in             
  the targeted country; and (3) Experience and knowledge on the part of personnel        
  who will be responsible for implementing and managing the program. CCC may             
  require that an entity submit a financial statement demonstrating that it has the      
  financial means to implement an effective donation program.                            
                                                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  A Cooperating Sponsor may be either: (a) A foreign government; (b) An entity           
  registered with the Agency for International Development (AID) in accordance           
  with AID regulations; or (c) An entity that demonstrates to CCC's satisfaction:        
  (1) Organizational experience and resources available to implement and manage          
  the type of program proposed, i.e., targeted food assistance or sale of                
  commodities for economic development activities; (2) Experience working in             
  the targeted country; and (3) Experience and knowledge on the part of personnel

  who will be responsible for implementing and managing the program. CCC may             
  require that an entity submit a financial statement demonstrating that it has the

                                                                                         
  financial means to implement an effective donation program.

                                                                                         
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                         
  Organization's Capabilities to Implement the Program. The organization may

                                                                                         
  provide concise information about its past food aid or development activities, its     
  experience within the country where the program is proposed and any other              
  relevant information to demonstrate its capability to implement the program in         
  the country.                                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                             
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.               
Application Procedure:                                                                   
  Each year FAS announces on it web site http://www.fas.usda.gov/ the invitation         
  period for the Food for Progress program. Organizations apply for program              
  funds by submitting a Plan of Operation required by 7 CFR 1499.5.                      
  Organizations may also submit supplemental information that summarizes the             
  need for the program in the country and organizational capabilities to implement       
  the program.                                                                           
Award Procedure:                                                                         
  None.                                                                                  
Deadlines:

                                                                                         
  Application deadline is included in the announcement on the FAS website.

                                                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                         
  Approximately 90 days.

                                                                                         
Appeals:

  None.                                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  None.                                                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                   
                                                                                         


112                                                                                11-08

  Agreements normally include assistance or program implementation periods of
  1-3 years.
Reports:
  The agreements and regulations require semi-annual reports for commodity
  logistics and the use of proceeds from the sale of the commodities 7 CFR
  1499.17. Organizations must submit quarterly financial reports for all funds
  advanced and all interested Non-governmental cooperating sponsors are subject
  of the audit requirements of OMB circular A-133 as implemented in USDA by 7
  CFR Part 3052. Audits of States, Local Governments and Non-profit
  organizations. The cooperating sponsor is also responsible for auditing the
  activities of recipient agencies that receive more that $25,000 of provided
  commodities or sale proceeds. 7 CFR 1499.7.
Audits:
  7 CFR 1499.17.
Records:
  The Cooperating sponsor shall maintain records for a period of three (3) years
  from the date of export of the commodities that accurately reflect the receipt and
  use of the commodities and any proceeds realized from the sale of commodities.
Account Identification:
  12-4336-0-3-999.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $169,000,000; FY 08 est $225,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 1499.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Food Assistance Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of
  Agriculture, 1400 Independence Ave., S.W., Stop 1034, Washington, DC
  20250-1034. Telephone: (202) 720-4221.
Web Site Address:
  HTTP://WWW.FAS.USDA.GOV/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Albania Market driven livestock system; Ghana Agri-forestry project in northern
  Ghana; Guatemala Diversify agricultural production and train farmers on market
  utilization; Rep. Of Congo Credit programs for farmers; Vietnam Train cocoa
  farmers on sustainable practices.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Organizational capacity; Substance of activities; Appropriateness of
  commodities and countries; Quality of proposals Clear, concise and complete
  Developed ideas Resource ratio Efficiency Beneficiary targeting proposal
  evaluation criteria.
10.607 SECTION 416(B)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Agricultural Act of 1949.
OBJECTIVES:
  U.S. agriculture commodities are provided to developing and friendly countries
  to carry out programs of assistance.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Sale, Exchange, or Donation of Property and Goods.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Restrictions on commodity use and distribution. (a) The Cooperating Sponsor
  may use the commodities provided only in accordance with the terms of the
  Program Agreement.(b) Commodities shall not be distributed within the
  importing country on the basis of political affiliation, geographic location, or the
  ethnic, tribal or religious identity or affiliations of the potential consumers or
  recipients. (c) Commodities shall not be distributed, handled or allocated by
  military forces without specific CCC authorization. (d) In the event that its
  participation in the program terminates, the non-government cooperating
  sponsor will safeguard any undistributed commodities and sales proceeds and
  dispose of such commodities and proceeds as directed by CCC.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A Cooperating Sponsor may be either: (a) A foreign government; (b) An entity
  registered with the Agency for International Development (AID) in accordance
  with AID regulations; or (c) An entity that demonstrates to CCC's satisfaction:
  (1) Organizational experience and resources available to implement and manage
  the type of program proposed; (2) Experience working in the targeted country
  and; (3) Experience and knowledge on the part of personnel who will be
  responsible for implementing and managing the program. CCC may require that
  an entity submit a financial statement demonstrating that it has the financial
  means to implement an effective donation program.
