  1599.16.                                                                           
Records:                                                                             
  The Cooperating sponsor shall maintain records for a period of three (3) years     
  from the date of export of the commodities that accurately reflect the receipt and 
  use of the commodities and any proceeds realized from the sale of commodities.     
  7 CFR 1599.15(a)                                                                   
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-4336-0-3-999.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $98,000,000; FY est 08 $98,000,000; and FY 09 est not               
  reported.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  None.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  7 CFR 1599.                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Director Food Assistance Division, Foreign Agricultural Service, Department of     
  Agriculture, 1400 Independence Ave., S.W., Stop 1034; Washington, DC               
  20250-1034. Telephone: (202) 720-4221.                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  htp://www.fas.usda.gov.

                                                                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                     
  None.

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Improve food security; Reduce hunger; Improve education; 96 Maternal-child         
  health programs; Government's commitment/action to improve school system;          
  and, Graduate to long-term sustainability.                                         
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
10.609 TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE                                                   
      (TAA)                                                                          
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Trade Act of 1974, as amended, Trade Act of 2002.                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  Under the program, the Department of Agriculture (USDA) provides technical         
  assistance and cash benefits to eligible farmers and fishermen if increased        
  imports have contributed importantly to a price decline of at least 20 percent.    
  Technical assistance under the program can provide access to a wide variety of     
  resources from USDA's Cooperative State Research, Education, and Extension         
  Service (CSREES), in partnership with a county Extension Service, to assist        
  producers in exploring alternative crops and marketing techniques. The             
  program's goal is to help producers respond proactively to import competition      
  through training, cash benefits, and employment services.                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  This program makes payments to eligible farmers, ranchers, fish farmers, and       
  fishermen competing with imported aquaculture products.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  USDA's FAS will certify producers eligibility for adjustment assistance if they    
  can demonstrate that their prices are less than or equal to 80 percent of the      
  national average price during the previous 5 marketing years and that increases    
  in imports of like or competitive products "contributed importantly" to the        
  decline in prices. They may then apply individually for benefits. Once a petition  
  has been certified, an applicant is eligible for TAA benefits if: (1) the applicant
  is an owner, operator, landlord, tenant, or sharecropper who shares in the risk of 
  producing a crop and who is entitled to share in the crop availability for         
  marketing from the farm, or qualified fishermen; (2) they are a producer of a raw  
  agricultural commodity, including livestock, fish, and aquaculture products.       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Producers of raw commodities who have been adversely affected by import            
  competition and are covered by a certification of eligibility.                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  When applying, producers must provide documentation that they produced the         
  commodity during the most recent marketing year. To be eligible for cash           
  payments, producers must certify that their net income from farming,               
  aquaculture or fishing has declined, from the pre-adjustment year, and that they   
  have received their free technical assistance from the Extension Service. Even if  
  eligible for benefits under multiple petitions, a producer may receive no more     
  than $10,000 per year in TAA cash payments. Producers may receive no more          
  than $65,000 in combined counter-cyclical and TAA payments.                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         


114                                                                            11-08

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A group of producers or an association representing a group of producers must
  first file a petition with USDA's FAS to establish eligibility for assistance.
  Petitions may be filed by a group of three or more producers or an authorized
  representative. The TAA petition form may be found on the Internet at
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/taa/fas0930.pdf. A copy may also be obtained from a
  USDA Farm Service Agency county office, or requested by phone at (202) 720-
  2916 or by writing to USDA, Foreign Agricultural Service, Trade Adjustment
  Assistance, STOP 1021, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC
  20250-1021. The TAA regulation defines articles like or directly competitive as
  products falling generally under the same number in the Harmonized Tariff
  Schedule of the United States (HTS). Links to the HTS and a U.S. trade database
  are in the TAA Library. When preparing petitions, producers are encouraged to
  seek advice from the Trade Adjustment Assistance Office regarding how best to
  identify their commodity by HTS number. After a petition is certified, eligible
  producers who apply are eligible to receive trade adjustment technical assistance
  from the Extension Service at no cost. The Extension Service will provide
  information regarding the feasibility and desirability of substituting one or more
  alternative commodities and improve the competitiveness of the production and
  marketing of the adversely affected commodity. Furthermore, to qualify for a
  TAA cash payment, producers must complete Form FSA-229, meet with the
  county Extension Service, and submit all supporting documentation by
  September 30.
Award Procedure:
  FAS determined the eligibility of producers of raw commodities who have been
  adversely affected by import competition based on all information and
  supporting documentation provided. The Extension Service will make available
  to all producers who apply for TAA free technical assistance within 180 days of
  the petition certification date. The Extension Service will contact applicants with
  the times and dates of scheduled training sessions. Once an applicant has met all
  program requirements, they will receive a cash benefit based on the certified
  payment rate times the amount of commodity marketed in the approved
  marketing year. The Farm Service Agency will make a direct deposit payment
  to the eligible applicant's checking account. Then, FAS will compute the
  amount of cash payment for certified eligible producers. The Farm Service
  Agency (FSA) or National Payment Service (NPS) will make direct deposit
  payments to certified eligible producers checking accounts. The maximum cash
  benefit is up to $10,000 per year. Applicants may receive less, if total
  applications exceed TAA funding levels.
Deadlines:
  Use the link to access TAA Petition Registry in order to find out the filling date,
  approval date, and application period end date for each type of eligible
  commodity per impacted area http://www.fas.usda.gov/itp/taa/registry.htm. A
  certified eligible producer must apply for adjustment assistance within 90 days
  after the eligibility certification approval date. FSA county offices can help
  producers prepare and submit their applications. To qualify for a TAA cash
  payment, producers must complete Form FSA-229, meet with the county
  Extension Service, and submit all supporting documentation by September 30.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Petition filing to establish eligibility, on the average, will take 40 days from the
  date that the petition is accepted and published in the Federal Register. The
  Extension Service will make available to all producers who apply for TAA free
  technical assistance within 180 days of the petition certification date.
Appeals:
  Any person may obtain reconsideration and review of determinations made with
  respect to applications for program benefits by filing an appeal with the U.S.
  International Trade Court.
Renewals:
  TAA may be available in subsequent years if imports keep increasing and
  producer prices remain below the 80-percent threshold.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  An eligible applicant will receive a monetary cash benefit using this formula, the
  cash benefit will be equal to the certified payment rate times the amount of
  eligible commodity marketed in the approved marketing year. Payment
  limitation of $10,000 exists for applicants who have received prior TAA
  payments in the same fiscal year or have received $65,000 in counter cyclical
  payments. Monetary cash benefits may also be less than the computed amount if
  total TAA payments exceed available funds.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Payment is made by direct deposit after determining applicant eligibility.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  At all times during regular business hours, authorized representatives of FSA,
  the United States Department of Agriculture, or the Comptroller General of the
  United States shall have access to the premises of the producer in order to
  inspect, examine, and make copies of the books, records, and accounts, and
  other written data as specified. Audits of certifications of average adjusted gross
  income may be conducted as necessary to determine compliance with
