  established requirements. As a part of this audit, income tax forms may be            
  requested and if requested, must be supplied. If a producer has submitted             
  information to FSA, including a certification from a certified public accountant      
  or attorney, that relied upon information from a form previously filed with the       
  Internal Revenue Service, such producer shall provide FSA a copy of any               
  amended form filed with the Internal Revenue Service with 30 days of the filing.      
Records:                                                                                
  Persons making application for benefits under this program must maintain              
  accurate records and accounts that will document that they meet all eligibility       
  requirements specified herein, as may be requested by FSA. Such records and           
  accounts must be retained for 2 years after the date of the final payment to the      
  producer under this program.                                                          
Account Identification:                                                                 
  12-4336-0-4-350.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Funds transferred from FAS to FSA for direct deposit payments) FY                    
  07$90,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  The maximum cash benefit is up to $10,000 per year. In some years, producers          
  may receive less, if producer demands for TAA exceed funding levels.                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Program is announced through news media and in letters to agricultural                
  producers in the counties. Regulations published in the Federal Register, 7 CFR       
  Part 1580.                                                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Consult the local phone directory for location of the nearest county FSA office.      
  If no listing, contact the appropriate State FSA office listed in the Farm Service    
  Agency section of Appendix IV of the Catalog or on the WEB at                         
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov/edso/statedefault.htm.                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Department of Agriculture, Foreign Agricultural Service, Trade Adjustment             
  Assistance, STOP 1021, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, DC                   
  20250-1021, Telephone: (202) 720-2916.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/itp/taa/taaindex.htm.                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  All producers of an eligible commodity identified by HTS number, which has            
  recently suffered from low prices due to increasing imports, and who meet             
  eligibility requirements may receive assistance. Applications are non-                
  competitive.                                                                          
                                                                                        
10.652 FORESTRY RESEARCH                                                                
                                                                                        
   (Research Grants & Agreements)                                                       
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  FOREST SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Research Act of 1978, Public Law             
  95-307, 92 Stat. 353, 16 U.S.C. 1643.                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To extend fundamental research activities of the Forest Service by awarding           
  grants to nonprofit organizations, institutions of higher education, and              
  organizations engaged in renewable resources research.                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Grants will be used for research in the fields of forest management, watershed        
  management, forest range management, wildlife habitat management, forest              
  recreation, forest fire protection, forest insect and disease protection and control, 
  forest products utilization, forest engineering, forest production economics,         
  forest products marketing, forest survey, urban forestry, wilderness, and             
  social/cultural influences. Indirect expenses, when permitted by statute, will be     
  reimbursed according to the negotiated indirect cost rate established by the          
  Government's cognizant audit agency. Grants are limited to 5 years duration.          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Grants for basic or applied research may be made to State Agricultural                
  Experiment Stations, universities and colleges, State and local governments,          
  U.S. Territories, nonprofit research institutions or organizations, international     
  organizations, individuals, and for-profit organizations.                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Organizations and scientists involved in basic and applied research activities        
  related to forest and rangeland renewable resources.                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  The principal investigator must document competence in the field of the

                                                                                   11-08
  research proposed. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular
  No. A-87, A-21, or A-122, Cost Principles for State and Local Governments,
  Cost Principles for Educational Institutions, or Cost Principles for Nonprofit
  Organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Standard Form 424 (SF-424) will be used. This program is excluded from
  coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A complete research proposal must be submitted following guidelines available
  in each of the offices referred to below. The proposal must explain in detail the
  work to be undertaken, the qualifications of key personnel involved in the work,
  other resources such as equipment, facilities, and services available or needed,
  and a proposed budget for each fiscal year during the life of the proposed grant.
  A short biographical sketch of the principal investigator and a list of his or her
  principal publications should be included. This program is subject to the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110, Uniform Administrative Requirements
  for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and
  Other Nonprofit Organizations, 7 CFR 3015, and 7 CFR 3019.
Award Procedure:
  All research grant proposals must compete for priority, showing technical
  competence and demonstrating the ability to meet national or regional needs.
  Research grants are made only in support of forestry research. Unsolicited
  proposals can be awarded for innovative or unique approaches to the proposed
  project.
Deadlines:
  Applicants may contact the Research Stations for deadlines.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  120 days.
Appeals:
  Contact the Research Station for guidance.
Renewals:
  Requests for continued support will be considered as equal in importance and in
  competition with pending proposals. Applications submitted for continued
  support should be identical to a new proposal, except that a resume of progress
  to date must be added.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The applicant's contribution is negotiated. The proposed budget by fiscal year
  shows the estimated cost of the complete project from grant funds and value of
  resources to be contributed by the applicant. Salaries of academic personnel for
  periods when they receive salary for teaching should not be included for
  payment from grant funds.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  One to 5 years. Billings for expenses incurred may be submitted monthly,
  quarterly, or semi-annually.
Reports:
  Technical reports of progress are required annually; a technical final report is
  also requested upon completion of project. Fiscal reports are required at least
  semiannually.
Audits:
  The Comptroller General of the United States, his representative, or auditors of
  the cognizant audit agency for the educational institution involved shall have
  access at any reasonable time to the laboratories, offices, or other facilities of the
  recipient for purposes of review and observation of the status and progress of the
  sponsored project. Periodic audits should be made as part of the recipient's
  system of financial management and internal control to meet terms and
  conditions of grants and other agreements. OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of
  States, Local Governments and Non-profit Organizations, is applicable.
Records:
  All related data, information, records, and accounts shall be retained for 3 years
  beyond the expiration date of the grant unless other disposition is specified in
  writing by the awarding agency.
Account Identification:
  12-1104-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $14,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $2,000 to $300,000. Average: $35,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-87, as implemented by USDA Regulation 7
  CFR Part 3016, are applicable to State and local government grantees. OMB
  Circular Nos. A-110 and A-21 are applicable to educational institutions. OMB
  Circular Numbers A-110 and A-122, as implemented by USDA Regulation 7
  CFR Part 3019, are applicable to nonprofit organizations.
Regional or Local Office:
  Initial contact for grants shall be made to the Directors of the Research Stations,
  or the Forest Products Laboratory as listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Deputy Chief for Research and Development, Forest Service, Department of
                                                                                       115
