  (Formula Grants) FY 07 $6,287,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not      
  reported.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $5 to $1,706,756. Average: $69,104.                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  None.                                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Fiscal Branch of appropriate Forest Service Regional Office listed in Appendix     
  IV of the Catalog.                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Robbie E. Chrishon, Director of Procurement and Property, Forest Service,          
  USDA, Room 706 RPE, P.O. Box 96090, Washington, DC 20090-6090.                     
  Telephone: (703) 605-4662.                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://fs.fed.us.                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                    
                                                                                     
10.670 NATIONAL FOREST-DEPENDENT RURAL                                               
                                                                                     
COMMUNITIES                                                                          
      (Economic Recovery)                                                            
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  FOREST SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  National Forest Dependent Rural Communities Economic Diversification Act of        
  1990, Section 2371, Subtitle G, Chapter 2, Section 2373, Public Law 101-624, 7     
  U.S.C. 6611, as amended.                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  Provide accelerated assistance to rural communities faced with acute economic      
  problems associated with Federal, State or private sector resource management      
  decisions and policies and that are located in or near a national forest and are   
  economically dependent upon forest resources. Aid is extended to these rural       
  communities to help them develop strategic action plans to diversify their         
  economic base and to improve the economic, social, and environmental well-         
  being of rural areas.                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants; Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment; Training.              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Eligible economically disadvantaged rural areas may request assistance in          
  identifying opportunities that will promote economic improvement,                  
  diversification and revitalization. Assistance is coordinated through a            
  community action team and plan. Programs may include upgrade of existing           
  industries, development of new economic activity in non-forest related             
  industries, technical assistance, training and education directed towards meeting  
  the community's planned goals. Assistance requested will be coordinated with       
  other USDA agencies and targeted to provide immediate help to those rural          
  communities in greatest need. Grants and technical assistance are available to     
  those rural communities meeting the eligibility requirements.                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Applicant must be a general purpose local government or tribe represented by a     
  nonprofit corporation or institution under State or Federal law to promote broad   
  based economic development having a population of not more than 10,000; or         
  any county that is not contained within a metropolitan statistical area. In both   
  cases, the county must derive 15 percent or greater primary and secondary labor    
  and proprietary income from forestry and forest related industries, such as        
  recreation and tourism, range, minerals, and wildlife. In all cases, the community 
  or county must also be within 100 miles of the boundary of a national forest.      
  Communities or counties associated solely with national grasslands are not         
  eligible. Individual businesses are not eligible for direct assistance.            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Rural communities as defined in the Law.                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  When eligibility criteria are met, communities may request assistance in           
  identifying opportunities and implementing action that will promote economic,      
  social, and environmental well-being, including diversification and sustainable    
  development.                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Not applicable. Contact Regional or Local Office listed in Appendix IV of the      
  Catalog. No community grants are reviewed or awarded at the National Office.       
Award Procedure:                                                                     


118                                                                            11-08

  Established by the Regional Office.
Deadlines:
  Communities are requested to submit form SF-424(A) with SF-424 application
  and other required forms as advised by the Regional Office.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The maximum is 60 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  SF-424(A) with SF-424 application is required to amend the allotment amount
  or length of commitment. Other requirements may be established by the
  regional office.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal contribution to the overall implementation of an action plan shall
  not exceed 80 percent of the total cost of the plan, including administrative and
  other costs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Financial assistance will support planned action by the community to diversify
  the local economy and to improve their social, economic, and environmental
  well-being. Limitation on length of funded projects will be established at the
  Regional Office.
Reports:
  Periodic and final reports are required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State and other generally accepted accounting systems are permissible, if
  acceptable to audit and reconciliate. All grantees need to maintain adequate
  systems for collecting and recording statistical data.
Account Identification:
  12-1105-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $1,000 to $30,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Since the initiation of the Economic Recovery Program, direct assistance has
  grown from helping 125 eligible communities in fiscal year 1992 to over 800 in
  fiscal year 2001. Many of the local action plans include activities related to
  tourism, value- added natural resource enterprises, marketing, special forest
  products, or building community capacity through leadership or organizational
  development and training/education projects.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Forest Service Implementation Guidelines available in all Forest Service offices.
  OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-87, are applicable and USDA Implementing
  Regulations 7, CFR 3016, 3017, 3018, and 3019.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for Regional and Area State and Private
  Forestry offices of the Forest Service and for addresses and telephone numbers
  of Regional Foresters and Area Director of the Forest Service.
Headquarters Office:
  Deputy Chief, State and Private Forestry, Forest Service, Department of
  Agriculture, P.O. Box 96090, Washington, DC 20090-6090. Telephone: (202)
  205-1657.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fs.fed.us/spf
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.664, Cooperative Forestry Assistance; 10.854, Rural Economic Development
  Loans and Grants; 10.901, Resource Conservation and Development; 11.303,
  Economic Development_Technical Assistance; 11.307, Economic Adjustment
  Assistance; 12.607, Community Economic Adjustment Assistance for
  Establishment, Expansion, Realignment, or Closure of a Military Installation.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Training and placing out-of-work loggers into environmental restoration jobs in
  northern California, Oregon and Washington. Developing and implementing an
  ecosystem management plan which includes commercial opportunities for
  utilizing small diameter, second-growth pine in Montezuma, Delores, and La
  Plata counties in southwestern Colorado. Strategic planning resulting in
  maintaining the rural character, yet enhancing social and economic benefits of
  community change in Wakulla County, Florida. Local development and
  construction of a riverfront park in Libby, Montana. Establishment of the Forest
  Technology and Training Institute in Clallum County, Washington. Increasing
  awareness and development of non-farm industries in the historically
  agriculturally based area around Rust College, Mississippi, with a special
