  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or  
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that        
  expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal        
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.                  
Records:                                                                            
  State and other generally accepted accounting systems can be used if control      
  procedures allow for proper audit and reconciliation. All grantees must maintain  
  adequate systems for collecting and recording statistical data.                   
Account Identification:                                                             
  12-1105-0-1-302.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $1,000 to $50,000.                                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  A new electronic reporting system is under development at this time. No           
  measures reported at this time.                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Forest Service Implementation Guidelines available in all Forest Service offices. 
  OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-87 are applicable to State and Local                
  Governments, A-110 and A-21 are applicable to educational institutions, and A-    
  110 and A-122 are applicable to Nonprofit Organizations. USDA Implementing        
  Regulations 7 CFR 3015, 3016, 3017, 3018, and 3019 also apply depending on        
  the type of recipient. Legislative history found in Senate and Conference reports 
  1988, 1989, and 1990 and Forest Service revised guidelines (May 2000).            
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for Regional and Area State and Private       
  Forestry offices of the Forest Service and for addresses and telephone numbers    
  of Regional Foresters and Area Director of the Forest Service.                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Telephone: (202)205-1657USDA Forest Service, Washington, DC.                      
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.fs.fed.us/spf/coop/programs/eap/index.shtml                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  10.664, Cooperative Forestry Assistance; 10.854, Rural Economic Development       
  Loans and Grants; 10.901, Resource Conservation and Development; 11.303,          
  Economic Development_Technical Assistance; 11.307, Economic Adjustment            
  Assistance; 12.607, Community Economic Adjustment Assistance for                  
  Establishment, Expansion, Realignment, or Closure of a Military Installation;     
  10.670, National Forest_Dependent Rural Communities.                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  In fiscal year 1999-2000, Catron County Citizens group, NM, developed a forest    
  restoration plan for the Negrito Ecosystem, created a local Economic              
  Development plan, and established a log sort yard and business incubator. New     
  Mexico State University Advanced Manufacturing Center, NM, assisted P&M           
  Signs of Mountainair in the design and construction of prototype equipment for    
  producing juniper/plastic composite materials to be used in construction and      
  sign applications. Painted Sky RC&D, CO, worked with Delta Timber to              
  conduct an economic feasibility test with 4X4-inch width materials for end and    
  edge glueing into wider and longer materials suitable for manufacture of          
  furniture and cabinets. Utah State Rural Development Council, UT, worked with     
  the Southern Utah Forest Products Association to build skills and cooperative     
  marketing strategies for producers of value-added small diameter wood products,   
  as well as to make connections to regional, national, and international markets.  
  Office of Community Services, Fort Lewis College (regional), is developing an     
  evaluation program for Four Corners Partnership projects in forestry in order to  
  describe and assess project outcomes. Washington Department of Natural            
  Resources and the Washington Hardwoods Commission are working together to         
  establish policies for conservation of the State's hardwood resources. The        
  secondary wood products industry in Oregon was surveyed to determine what         
  specific types of training were needed to assist in improving the skills and      
  education of workers in the industry, leading to development of curricula later   
  offered by the State's community college system. Overall, 1,500 communities       
  and 1,000 organizations assisted in fiscal year 1997; 2,400 communities and       
  1,200 organizations assisted in fiscal year 1998; and 2,200 communities and       
  1,000 organizations assisted in fiscal year 1999.                                 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Regional/Area/Institute administrative units are given the flexibility to make    
  funding decisions based on their specific community and regional priorities       
  documented in a regional strategy for their respective administrative areas.      
  These overall strategies are identified through input by States, tribal nations,  
  local agencies and organizations.                                                 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
10.674 FOREST PRODUCTS LAB: TECHNOLOGY                                              
MARKETING UNIT (TMU)                                                                
                                                                                    
      (TMU Biomass Grant/Assistance Program)

                                                                                    
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  FOREST SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                         
120                                                                           11-08

AUTHORIZATION:
  Appropriation through 2005 Omnibus Bill, Public Law 108-447; Public Law
  108-148.
OBJECTIVES:
  Increase the amount of biomass used from the National Forest and associated
  lands involved with hazardous fuel reduction activities. The program will is
  designed to assist small forest products businesses, State, local and Tribal
  governments, school districts, communities, entrepreneurs, non-profits, special
  purpose districts (i.e., public utilities districts, fire districts, conservation
  districts, or ports), companies, and corporations turn small diameter and
  underutilized wood species into marketable forest products, including biomass
  energy. Accelerate adoption of technologies using biomass and small diameter
  materials to create community-based enterprises through marketing activities
  and demonstration projects and establish small-scale business enterprises to
  make use of biomass and small-diameter materials. The public goal is to reduce
  the cost per acre of hazardous fuel treated needed to protect communities from
  wildland fire and improve the overall health of the nations forest. Program may
  include: (1) development of potential new products; (2) projects that showcase
  innovative uses for small diameter and low-valued hardwoods and softwoods;
  and (3) reducing the challenge to economic and market barriers to the use of the
  material (4) provide seed money and gap funding (5) facilitating
  creation/expansion of harvesting/processing/transporting enterprises around
  wildland urban interface areas.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Must significantly tie to National Forest System land hazardous fuels treatment
  projects. No land acquisition or construction.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Entities eligible include: Non-profits, local, state, and Tribal governments,
  business, companies, corporation, (for Profit), special purpose districts, (public
  utilities districts, fire districts, conservation districts, or port). Land treatment
  must be adjacent National Forest System lands and may include other lands as
  part of the treatment activities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Not applicable.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by OMB Circular No. A-102, as implemented by 7 CFR Part 3016, must be used
  for this program (i.e., SF-424). This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Procedures for submitting grant application can be found on
  www.fpl.fs.fed.us/tmu or contact the Program Manager as listed under
  Information Contacts. Submit a narrative description along with the appropriate
  forms listed in 091, budget sheet, and budget justification.
Award Procedure:
  Nationally competitive, merit-based.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts or
  Headquarters Office section below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Range of Approval/Disapproval Time: 160 days after the date of closure on a
  Request for Proposals.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Applicants must demonstrate a 20 percent cost share from non-Federal sources,
  which can include in-kind contributions. In-kind, or non-cash contributions,
  must be reasonable, allowable, and the recipient must be able to demonstrate in
  the application that all costs can be shown as actual costs to the recipient in
  performing the project. i. All unit costs must be clearly identified in the budget
  justification and must be allowable, reasonable, and auditable. ii. Funds paid
  by the Federal government under another award, unless authorized by Federal
  statute, may not be used for cost sharing or matching.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  As determined by project, no longer than 3 years.
Reports:
  Reports: Grants quarterly financial and semi-annual performance report
  required.
Audits:
  Grant recipients are subject to audit by the Office of Inspector General, USDA.
Records:
  Grant records will be maintained for 5 years after expiration date.
Account Identification:
  11-4011-0-1-302.
Obligations:
