  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Range and Average of Financial Assistance: $50,000 to $250,000 per grant.           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  None.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  No regulations.                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Local contact: List S&PF regional contacts which reference to table as in the       
  past.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Technology Marketing Unit, State and Private Forestry, Forest Service, Forest       
  Products Laboratory, One Gifford Pinchot Dr., Madison, WI 53726-2398, (608)         
  231-9200.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.fpl.fs.fed.us/tmu (grants.gov).                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None, this is a new Program.                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Grants are approved on the basis of a nationwide review and are based on            
  technical and financial merits of the project as evaluated by a panel of Federal,   
  State, and local business experts and peers. Criteria include showing a             
  demonstrated ability to use biomass from hazardous fuels reduction/treatment        
  projects on and near National Forest Lands.                                         
                                                                                      
10.675 URBAN AND COMMUNITY FORESTRY PROGRAM                                           
                                                                                      
   (UCF)

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FOREST SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                                                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                      
  The Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978, Public Law 95-313,92 Stat.

                                                                                      
  365, 16 U.S.C. 2102 et seq. (As Amended Through Public Law 107-195, June

                                                                                      
  16, 2002) Section 9 (16 U.S.C. 2105) Urban and Community Forestry                   
  Assistance.                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To plan for, establish, manage and protect trees, forests, green spaces and related 
  resources in and adjacent to cities and towns to improve urban livability; to link  
  governmental, private and grassroots organizations and resources to address         
  environmental issues at the local, regional and national level; to engage people    
  in citizen-based, grassroots volunteer efforts to assist in retaining and protecting
  their natural environment to provide a balance between quality of life and land     
  consumption associated with urban sprawl; and to improve the ecological             
  function, and social and economic stability of cities and communities.              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  To assist State Foresters, equivalent State agencies, interested members of the     
  public and private non-profit organizations in urban and community forestry         
  programs in cities and communities.                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State Foresters or equivalent State agencies, interested members of the public,     
  private non-profit organizations and others. All States, as well as the District of 
  Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of        
  the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa and Guam, and other territories        
  and possessions of the United States are eligible.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State Foresters or equivalent State agencies, local governments, tribes, and non-   
  profit organizations, and other State, local and private agencies acting through    
  State Foresters, equivalent State agencies or other official representatives as     
  agreed by the State Forester, equivalent State agency, and the Secretary.           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 For State         
  and local governments, as implemented by 7 CFR Part 3016.                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Regional/Area/IITF Offices provide States and teritories with program funding       
  advice each year. This program is excluded for coverage under E.O. 12372.           
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Contact Regional, Area or Institute Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog     
  http://www.fs.fed.us/ucf/Regional_Offices.htm.

Award Procedure:

  Established by the Regional, Area and Institute offices.                            
  http://www.fs.fed.us/ucf/Regional_Offices.htm.                                      
Deadlines:

  Contact Regional, Area or Institute Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog     
  http://www.fs.fed.us/ucf/Regional_Offices.htm.                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Established by the Regional, Area, and Institute offices.                           
                                                                                 11-08
  http://www.fs.fed.us/ucf/Regional_Offices.htm.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Amended SF-424 (A) with SF 424 application is required to amend the
  allotment amount or length of commitment, other requirements may be
  established by the Regional, Area or Institute offices.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Statistical factors for eligibility do not apply to this program. Funds reimbursed
  by the Federal Government may not exceed 50 percent of the total project budget
  expended by a grantee. The non-Federal share of the match may be in the form
  of cash, services or in-kind contributions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Electronic transfer of payments are encouraged. Grants are normally awarded
  for a period of 12 months. A no cost extension justification must be received
  and approved by the Forest Service.
Reports:
  Each State forestry agency or equivalent is required to submit annual
  accomplishment reports on the program, and have an approved 5-year strategic
  plan.
Audits:
  Use of all funds will have to meet Federal and State audit requirements. In
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," non
  federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal
  awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are
  exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular
  No. A-133.
Records:
  State and other generally accepted accounting systems are permissible, if
  acceptable to audit and reconciliation. All grantees need to maintain adequate
  systems for collecting and recording statistical data.
Account Identification:
  12-1105-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $30,130,000; FY 08 est $17,436,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2006 and FY 2007, 6,364 and 5,800 communities received technical
  assistance, respectively. In 2006, 164,136,406 people lived in communities that
  had received program assistance and that were managing or developing urban
  forestry capacity according to accepted national performance measures: (1) hired
  professional staff, (2) adopted tree ordinances and policies, (3) implemented an
  urban forest management plan, and 4) established a local advocacy/advisory
  organization.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-87, as implemented by 7 CFR Part 3016, are
  applicable to State and local government grantees. Available online at:
  http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/circulars/index.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  For Forest Service, State and Private Forestry office addresses and telephone
  numbers. Visit: http://www.fs.fed.us/ucf/Regional_Offices.htm.
Headquarters Office:
  Deputy Chief, State and Private Forestry, Forest Service, Department of
  Agriculture, 1400 Independence Ave., SW, Mailstop: 1123, Washington, DC
  20250-1123 . Telephone: (202) 205-1657.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fs.fed.us/ucf/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funding is for programs by State Forestry Agencies and others as set forth in
  Uses and Use Restrictions. Examples include but are not limited to tree
  inventories, tree planting, training and education for proper tree care,
  establishment of urban foresters in communities, etc. For examples of current
  and completed projects, see the Challenge Cost Share Program at:
  http://www.treelink.org/nucfac/general_info.html.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Most grants are approved on the basis of negotiated targets or objectives to be
  achieved. UCF community grants are based on local needs and resources.
10.676 FOREST LEGACY PROGRAM
   (FLP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE, FOREST SERVICE;
AUTHORIZATION:
  Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978, 16 U.S.C. 2101 et. seq., as
                                                                                  121
