  amended by the 1990 Farm Bill, Section 1217 of Title XII of the Food,                
  Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990, Public Law 101-624, 104             
  Stat. 3359, 16 U.S.C. 2103c; later amended by the 1996 Farm Bill, Federal            
  Agricultural Improvement and Reform Act of 1996; Public Law 104-127; Title           
  III, Conservation; Subtitle G Forestry; Section 374, Optional State Grants for       
  Forest Legacy Program.                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To effectively protect and conserve environmentally important forest areas that      
  are threatened by conversion to nonforest uses, through conservation easements       
  and other mechanism. The FLP is a voluntary private land conservation                
  partnership between the Forest Service, participating States, land trusts, private   
  landowners, and others. The Program works with State partners and operates on        
  a willing seller and willing buyer basis and is completely nonregulatory in its      
  approach. No eminent domain authority or adverse condemnation is authorized          
  for this Program. Participating States are required to complete an Assessment of     
  Need (AON), which analyzes the need and areas of priority for the program and        
  describes how the program will be implemented within the State.                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Landowner participation in the program is voluntary and consists of conveying        
  land or interests in land to achieve land conservation objectives and preparing      
  and periodically updating a Forest Stewardship Management Plan or a multi-           
  resource management plan.                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Projects are evaluated and prioritized by State lead agencies, in consultation with  
  the State Forest Stewardship Coordinating Committees. All States, Puerto Rico,       
  the United States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana           
  Islands, American Samoa, and Guam, and other territories and possessions of the      
  United States may be eligible.                                                       
                                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  State agency, landowners of private forest lands, and land trust organizations.      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Each State must prepare an Assessment of Need (AON). This document                   
  analyzes the need for the program and describes how the program will be              
  implemented within the State. The FS Regional, Area, or Institute Responsible        
  Official must concur with the State's AON. Requirements for an eligible project      
  are: (1) project is within an approved Forest Legacy Area and fits within the        
  priorities of a State's AON; (2) an approved Forest Stewardship Plan or a multi-     
                                                                                       
  resource management plan for the project; (3) complies with FLP State and

                                                                                       
  National criteria; (4) a completed grant application; (5) an approved appraisal,

                                                                                       
  meeting Federal acquisition appraisal standards as outlined in the Uniform

                                                                                       
  Appraisal Standards for Federal Land Acquisitions; (6) negotiated terms of a

                                                                                       
  conservation easement, if applicable; and, (7) adequate non-Federal cost share.

                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                       
  The participating State, private landowner, and participating land trust, when

                                                                                       
  applicable, will negotiate the terms of the conservation easement or acquisition.

                                                                                       
  Forest management activities, including timber management, may be allowed on

                                                                                       
  tracts when consistent with the State AON and the purposes for tract acquisition.

                                                                                       
  In addition, an initial appraisal of the property and a Forest Stewardship Plan

                                                                                       
  should be initiated. This program is excluded from cover under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Application requirements must comply with the Code of Federal Regulations (7

                                                                                       
  CFR 3016), Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative

                                                                                       
  Agreements to State and Local Governments. Individual participating States

                                                                                       
  have application duties and procedures.

                                                                                       
Award Procedure:

  The Forest Service will conduct an annual project selection process to arrive at a   
  prioritized national project list for inclusion in the Presidents budget. The Forest 
  Service then issues grants to states for the project specific earmarks designated    
  in the Congressional appropriations bills.                                           
                                                                                       
Deadlines:

  States are required to submit Form SF-424 for each eligible project. An annual       
  project selection calendar with due dates will be developed each fiscal year, and    
  will identify deadlines and approval times.                                          
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  An annual project selection calendar with due dates will be developed each fiscal    
  year, and will identify deadlines and approval times.                                
Appeals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Federal contribution cannot exceed 75 percent of the total project costs, and at     
  least a 25 percent non-Federal cost share is required. The non-Federal cost share    
  may consist of: funds, donations, land or interests in land, in-kind contributions,  
  direct costs, indirect costs, and others as determined by the Forest Service.        
  Funds will be provided to the States on a per-project basis, as determined by the    
  annual Appropriations Law. The non-Federal cost share can occur at any phase         
  of the project within the legal grant period, including planning, developing         


122                                                                              11-08

  future projects, acquisition, capital improvement, management, or administrative
  activities.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is provided via grants to States. Typical grant period is two years.
  Grants can receive a no cost extension up to five years with justification and is
  approved by the Forest Service.
Reports:
  States are required to submit annual progress reports on outstanding grants.
  States are required to monitor properties with conservation easements. Project
  specific Forest Stewardship Plans are required to be established and updated
  periodically.
Audits:
  Use of all funds will have to meet Federal and State audit requirements.
Records:
  State Lead Agencies are required to retain complete grant files on each grant
  issued. States must report annual accomplishments data in the Forest Legacy
  Information System.
Account Identification:
  12-1105-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $57,107,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Forest Legacy Program Implementation Guidelines of 2003.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to the web site below for Regional and Area State and Private Forestry
  offices of the Forest Service and for addresses and telephone numbers of
  Regional Foresters and Area Director of the Forest Service.
  http://www.fs.fed.us/spf/coop/library/flp_region_coord.shtml.
Headquarters Office:
  Forest Service, State and Private Forestry; Cooperative Forestry; 1400
  Independence Avenue, SW; Stop Code 1123; Washington, DC 20250.
  Telephone: (202) 205-1389.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fs.fed.us/spf/coop/programs/loa/flp.shtml.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  1. Mt. Blue/Tumbledown, Maine - Hancock Timber Resources Group put on the
  open market 11,800 acres of forest land in western Maine, including the peak of
  Tumbledown Mountain, one of Maine's most popular recreation spots. In
  addition, another 10,000 acres surrounding Mt. Blue State Park was put on the
  market by another timber company, with a portion of it sold immediately to a
  liquidator who cleared all the timber and immediately subdivided it into 40 acre
  lots. Working with a Maine-based forest products company, Hancock Lumber,
  and the local community, the state of Maine secured the protection of
  Tumbledown's summit and purchased an easement on other lands that are now
  owned by Hancock Lumber, ensuing continued timber for its mill. All told, over
  21,000 acres have been protected, ensuring continued public access to
  outstanding recreational lands and maintaining sustainable harvesting to support
  the economic backbone of western Maine. Forest Legacy funding of $2.2 million
  was provided to help supplement private and state funding for this $5.04 million
  project. 2. Mountains to Sound Greenway, Washington Forest Legacy funds
  helped to protect tracts critical to the scenic and ecologic integrity of this unique
  corridor from expanding development. Surrounded by protected land on two
  sides and rural development on the others, the Mountains to Sound Greenway
  and is highly visible from both Rattlesnake Ridge and I-90. The acquisitions
  preserved scenic values, habitat, wildlife corridors, water quality and working
  forest opportunities that would have otherwise been lost to private development.
  Individual tracts of the Mountains to Sound Greenway protected with Forest
  Legacy funds include Rattlesnake Ridge, Issaquah Creek and Lake Sammamish,
  critical in protecting local water quality and an important fishery and salmon
  rearing resource. The acquisitions were a locally-driven multifaceted effort by
  private, public, and non-profit initiative to protect targeted landscapes for
  multiple use management. 3. Anderson Tully, Tennessee - In 2001, Anderson
  Tully Company announced its intention to sell 11,807 acres of unleveed,
  bottomland hardwood forest on the Mississippi River in Lauderdale County,
  Tennessee. Because of the company's excellent forest stewardship record and
  long history of cooperation with the state in making the land available for public
  access and hunting - the property was extremely attractive to both forestry and
  wildlife agencies in the state. The most likely alternative for this property was
  purchase by private interests and loss of public access. The Nature Conservancy
  worked with the state agencies and Anderson Tully to negotiate a $15 million
  purchase price, $1 million less than the appraised value of the property. Without
  Forest Legacy, this project would not have been possible. The Forest Legacy
  program contributed $8 million, which was matched by contributions from The
  Nature Conservancy, the Wild Turkey Federation, state Wetlands Acquisition
