  Fund, and the North American Wetlands Conservation Program, the state              
  Natural Areas Program - to name a few - and enjoyed strong support of both the     
  Tennessee and Mississippi congressional delegations. Because of the work of        
  this partnership the Anderson Tully property - now known as the John Tully         
  Wildlife Management Area - will remain open for public access, Forest              
  Stewardship Council certified timber management will be conducted by TN            
  Division of Forestry at a demonstration forest on a portion of the property, and   
  high-value waterfowl habitat on the Mississippi River will be protected on into    
  the future. 4. Peaceful Valley Ranch, Utah - Just one mile downstream from the     
  East Canyon Reservoir, this area serves as a source of drinking water for seven    
  counties in the Weber Basin Water District. All told, 16,000 acres of critical     
  watershed lands have been protected Through this project. The landowners of        
  this 7,300 acre ranch facedadvancing                                               
  age,declining income and development pressure in this beautiful area just east of  
  the growing Salt Lake City region. Working with the state of Utah, the             
  MacFarlane family sold at a significantly reduced price an easement over the       
  entire ranch that ensures public access, prevents development, protects drinking   
  water supplies and keeps this longtime family working the land. This project       
  also leveraged a donation to the state of Utah of an easement valued at $8         
  million on an 8,800 acre property owned by another part of the MacFarlane          
  family. Forest Legacy funding of $900,000 was used to leverage state and           
  private funds and the donated easement for this $15 million project. 5. Green      
  Cathedral, Maryland The town of Crownsville, just outside of Annapolis, is         
  home to the largest undeveloped forested parcel on the Severn River. The Green     
  Cathedral property is 292 acres of important fish spawning and waterfowl           
  nesting areas, and its forests provide the natural process of filtering water that 
  drains into the Severn River and the Chesapeake Bay. Prior to acquisition, the     
  tract was slated for residential development, but the developer agreed to          
                                                                                     
  terminate the contract if a buyer for an easement could be found. Forest Legacy

                                                                                     
  funds contributed $650,000, to be combined with local resident donations, to

                                                                                     
  preserve this critical watershed.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  Project evaluation and priority ranking is based on the three national core

                                                                                     
  criteria (importance, threatened, and strategy, as defined in the 2003 FLP

                                                                                     
  Implementation Guidelines) as well as project readiness and other evaluation

                                                                                     
  considerations developed in consultation with States and FS Units.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
10.677 FOREST LAND ENHANCEMENT PROGRAM                                               
                                                                                     
   (FLEP)

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  FOREST SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                          
                                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:

  Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002. Public Law 107-171.                
                                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:

  With respect to the sustainable management of nonindustrial private forest and     
  other rural lands suitable for sustainable forest management; provide technical    
  and educational assistance; provide cost share for practices such as management    
  plan development, tree planting, forest stand improvement, agroforestry            
  implementation, water quality improvement and watershed protection, fish and       
                                                                                     
  wildlife habitat improvement, forest health protection, invasive species control,

                                                                                     
  wildfire and catastrophic risk reduction, wildfire and catastrophic risk

                                                                                     
  rehabilitation, and special practices approved within the State and by the FS

                                                                                     
  Responsible Official.

                                                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  To assist State Foresters or equivalent agencies in sustainable forest management  
  on nonindustrial private forest lands. Program may include agreements with         
  other agencies or organizations to serve as a third party to deliver parts of FLEP.
  Program may include technical assistance to develop management plans for           
  NIPF lands; educational programs and assistance to increase the awareness and      
  land owner ability to manage forests sustainably; and cost-share assistance to     
  implement sustainable forestry practices on the ground.                            
                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:

  State Forestry or equivalent State agencies. All States, Puerto Rico, the United   
  States Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,           
  American Samoa, and Guam and other territories and possessions of the United       
  States that may be eligible.                                                       
                                                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Landowners and managers of nonindustrial private forest lands, non-profit          
                                                                                     
  organizations, consultant foresters, universities, other State, local and private

                                                                                     
  organizations and agencies acting through State Foresters, equivalent State

                                                                                     
  officials or other official representatives.

                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                     
  Each State must prepare a State Priority Plan that is concurred in by the FS

                                                                                     
  Regional, Area, or Institute Responsible Official before any funds can be

                                                                                     
                                                                                11-08
  disbursed. A management plan must be prepared before a landowner is eligible
  for cost-share assistance, except where the practice is development of a
  management plan. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Established by each State forestry agency.
Award Procedure:
  Established by each State forestry agency.
Deadlines:
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts section
  below.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Established by each State forestry agency.
Appeals:
  Start with the State Forestry agency, through the FS Regional, Area or Institute
  Official, with final decisions by the Chief of the Forest Service if no decision is
  made at a lower level.
Renewals:
  Established by each State forestry agency.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Public Law 107-171 establishes the criteria to distribute funds. All criteria are
  considered at the national and regional level to distribute funds to the States.
  There are no matching requirements for the State to receive funds. Cost-share
  payments to NIPF land owners and managers may not exceed 75 percent. Each
  State forestry agency determines the amount of funds any land owner may
  receive. Each State forestry agency will request their funds electronically from
  the Forest Service Regional, Area or Institute office and funds will be sent to
  each State electronically.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Electronic transfers of payments are encouraged. Electronic transfer of funds
  from the Forest Service to the State forestry agencies typically occurs quarterly.
Reports:
  Each State forestry agency is required to submit annual accomplishment report
  on the program. Any grants, cooperative agreements or other instrument used to
  award funds will each require a report on the accomplishment and use of funds.
Audits:
  Use of all funds will have to meet Federal and State audit requirements.
Records:
  State and other generally accepted accounting systems are permissible, if
  acceptable to audit and reconciliation. All grantees need to maintain adequate
  systems for collecting and recording statistical data. All records for agreements
  using any FLEP funds will be maintained in the State forestry agency office for a
  minimum of 10 years.
Account Identification:
  12-2711-0-1-051.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
  (Note: This program expires as of September 30, 2007.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  States and Territories may receive between $1,100 and $832,000 based on
  allocation criteria.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Benefits of the regulations include cost sharing to improve forest management
  on nearly 610,000 acres, owned by more than 7800 landowners. Technical
  assistance on sustainable forest practices will be provided to more than 1.1
  million acres of forestland, and nearly $8 million will be provided to improve
  landowner awareness and understanding of sustainable forestry principles and
  practices. These accomplishments will result in additional carbon sequestration,
  improved wildlife habitat, improved soil and water quality, and sustainable
  forest conditions.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Forest Service Manual Titles 3300, Chapter 3310, Section 3314; The Principal
  Laws Relating to USDA Forest Service State and Private Forestry Programs as
  amended March 2003, FS-758; and the Final Interim Rule, 36 CFR Part 230,
  Subpart C.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to the web site below for Regional and Area State and Private Forestry
  offices of the Forest Service and for addresses and telephone numbers of
  Regional Foresters and Area Director of the Forest Service.
  http://www.fs.fed.us/contactus/regions.shtml.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  None.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Funding is for programs by State forestry agencies and others as set forth in Uses
  and Use Restrictions.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Most grants to the State forestry agency are approved when the State Priority
  Plan has been approved and funds are available.
                                                                                   123
