  forest restoration techniques.                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Project Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funding may be allocated for such things as technical assistance, training and    
  education, equipment, marketing, and all costs associated with making these       
  services available to tribal governments, educational institutions, landowners,   
  and other interested public and private entities.                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Local and tribal governments, educational institutions, landowners, conservation  
  organizations, and other interested public and private entities. Grant proponents 
  must include a diverse and balanced group of stakeholders as well as appropriate  
  Federal, Tribal, State, County, and Municipal government representatives in the   
  design and implementation of the project. The projects may be entirely on, or on  
  any combination of, Federal, Tribal, State, County, or Municipal forestlands.     
  Processing facilities may be located on private land if they are associated with  
  restoration activities on public land.                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Local and tribal governments, educational institutions, landowners, conservation  
  organizations, and other interested public and private entities. Grant proponents 
  must include a diverse and balanced group of stakeholders as well as appropriate  
  Federal, Tribal, State, County, and Municipal government representatives in the   
  design and implementation of the project. The projects may be entirely on, or on  
  any combination of, Federal, Tribal, State, County, or Municipal forestlands.     
  Processing facilities may be located on private land if they are associated with  
  restoration activities on public land.                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  The State of New Mexico Local Government Division has determined that they        
  do not choose to exercise their option under EO 12372 to conduct an               
  intergovernmental review of Collaborative Forest Restoration Program grant        
  proposals. They have requested that the CFRP project proposals not be sent to     
  their office. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.            
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Applicants are required to submit form SF-424, SF-424(a), SF-424 (b), AD          
  1047, AD 1049, and other information described in the Request for Proposals.      
  Proposals should be sent to: CFRP Program, Cooperative and International          
  Forestry, USDA Forest Service, Room 329, 333 Broadway SE, Albuquerque,            
  NM 87102.                                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The Collaborative Forest Restoration Program Technical Advisory Panel             
  evaluates the proposals and provides recommendations to the Forest Service on     
  which ones best meet the purposes, objectives, and administrative requirements    
  of the program. The panel also evaluates the effect of each proposal on long-term 
  forest management. The Forest Service Southwestern Regional Forester selects      
  proposals for final award. The Secretary of Agriculture chartered the Technical   
  Advisory Panel as a Federal Advisory Committee for two years on June 12, 2001     
  (CFR 1042-138) under the Federal Advisory Committee Act (Public Law 92-           
  463). The Secretary reauthorized the Panel's charter on July 30, 2003 (CFR        
  1042-138).                                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact the regional office for specific application deadlines.                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Approximately 90 Days.                                                            
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  The Federal share of an individual project cost shall not exceed 80 percent of the
  total cost. The 20-percent matching may be in the form of cash or in-kind         
  contribution. Projects can not exceed a total annual cost of $150,000, with the   
  Federal portion not exceeding $120,000 annually, nor exceed a total cost of       
  $450,000 for the project, with the Federal portion of the total cost not exceeding
  $360,000 (Public Law 106-393, Title VI, Sec. 605(a) and (b)(8)).                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Projects may not exceed 4 years in length (Public Law 106-393, Title VI, SEC.     
  605(b)(7). Assistance will be provided by no more than monthly payments.          
Reports:                                                                            
  Periodic and final performance reports are required. Annual financial reports     
  will also be required. Grant recipients must attend an annual workshop with       
  other stakeholders for the purpose of discussing the cooperative forest           
  restoration program and projects implemented under Collaborative Forest           
  Restoration Program. Grant recipients may use project grant funds to pay for      
  their travel and per diem expenses to attend the workshop.                        
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  24, 1997), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"    
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $300,000 or more in      


                                                                               11-08
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  State and other generally accepted accounting systems can be used if control
  procedures allow for proper audit and reconciliation. All grantees must maintain
  adequate systems for collection and recording statistical data. Project records
  must be maintained for a period of three years after the project has ended.
Account Identification:
  12-1115-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,100,700; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $66,361.00 to $360,000.00.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Collaborative Forest Restoration Program (CFRP) Technical Advisory Panel
  has met four times to provide the USDA Forest Service Southwestern Regional
  Forester with consensus recommendations regarding which project proposals
  submitted for funding under the CFRP best met the objectives of the program.
  From 2001 to 2004 the Panel reviewed 149 grant proposals and developed
  consensus recommendations to fund 62 of them. The Panel adopted bylaws to
  guide their work. CFRP grantees and their partners met in 2003, 2004 and 2005
  at the CFRP Annual Workshop to discuss projects implemented under the
  program. The 2006 Annual Workshop for grantees, their partners, and other
  interested stakeholders will be held in Albuquerque or Santa Fe in January 2006.
  CFRP grants support a wide variety of forest and watershed restoration, small
  diameter utilization, training, and multi-party monitoring and assessment
  projects in New Mexico. These projects are effectively engaging board and
  diverse interest groups in collaborative efforts to restore New Mexico's public
  forestlands.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The authorizing legislation (Public Law 106-393 Title VI), a list of the members
  of the Collaborative Forest Restoration Program Technical Advisory Panel, The
  Charter for the Technical Advisory Panel, The Technical Advisory Panel
  Recommendations, The Request for Proposals, Project Summaries for funded
  activities, and a List of Forest Service Contacts can be found on the website for
  the Southwestern Region of the Forest Service at www.fs.fed.us/r3/spf/cfrp.
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional or Local Office: Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for addresses and
  telephone numbers of the Forest Service National Forests in New Mexico. These
  are the Gila, Lincoln, Cibola, Santa Fe, and Carson National Forests.
Headquarters Office:
  Telephone: (505) 842-3289, USDA Forest Service Southwestern Region,
  Cooperative and International Forestry staff, 333 Broadway S.E., Albuquerque,
  NM 87122.
Web Site Address:
  www.fs.fed.us/r3/spf/cfrp.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.664, Cooperative Forestry Assistance; 10.672, Rural Development, Forestry,
  and Communities; 10.854, Rural Economic Development Loans and Grants;
  10.901, Resource Conservation and Development; 11.303, Economic
  Development_Technical Assistance; 11.307, Economic Adjustment Assistance;
  12.607, Community Economic Adjustment Assistance for Establishment,
  Expansion, Realignment, or Closure of a Military Installation.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The following activities were among those funded in fiscal year 2004: (1) The
  project will remove small diameter trees, reduce fuel loads and other flammable
  materials on 200 acres of Forest Service land that abuts private land north of
  Shady Brook and around campgrounds on the west end of Taos. Emphasis will
  be on eliminating crowded and non-native plant and tree species by removing
  trees less than 12 inches in diameter. Healthy old and large trees and snags in
  both conifer and aspen stands will be preserved. Free firewood will be
  distributed to local residents and posts and poles less than 12 inches in diameter
  will be provided to recipients with permits. Local community members will be
  hired for thinning projects. The project proponents estimate that 10-12 jobs will
  be created for the thinning work, and at least eight people will be trained in
  forest practices. (2) The project will gather and review information about the
  Santa Domingo Pueblo Bosque (riparian) area and upland resources to identify
  information gaps; establish methodologies for fuel loading inventories to
  establish monitoring protocols; conduct baseline surveys of vegetation; explore
  the feasibility of opening a tribal wood-yard for small diameter timber; involve
  the community in the development of the project; develop a comprehensive fuels
  management strategy; and conduct a pilot restoration treatment on 50 acres of
  Tribal Bosque and woodland. The project includes a summer education and
  work program for Santo Domingo youth on the restoration protection of the Rio
  Grande floodplain protection. (3) The project will conduct fuels reduction and
  forest restoration treatments to reduce hazardous fuels, improve habitat, reduce
  non-native species and improve watershed conditions on 225 acres of Ponderosa
  Pine, mixed conifer, and pinyon-juniper forest on Tribal, BLM and NM State
                                                                                  125
