  Lands near the communities of Candy Kitchen and Fort Wingate. Logs over 9            
  will be milled, graded, and dried to sell to the Zuni Furniture company and          
  others. Lower grade material will be dried and sold to the community for             
  construction. Logs too small for milling will be made into posts and vigas with      
  traditional Zuni carvings for local and regional markets. The grantees will also     
  study the feasibility of biomass heat and/or power applications for the remaining    
  materials and milling waste. High school students will collect data for multi-       
  party monitoring and assessment reports. (4) This project will chip trees            
  resulting from forest restoration and Wildland Urban Interface fuels reduction       
  projects on the Gila National Forest to provide the Fort Bayard Medical Center       
  with biomass for a new biomass fired boiler system. Gila WoodNet will                
  purchase and install chip handling and processing equipment to be used in            
  screening and re-chipping; purchase and install chip storage bins and equipment      
  to deliver chips; purchase a truck for chip transport; purchase and install scales   
  and moisture monitoring equipment for determining BTU content and value;             
  install transfer, storage, and re-chipping facilities to receive and process         
  biomass; and provide monitoring and system evaluation assistance to other            
  biomass heating projects in the state. The project will create up to five            
  permanent year-round jobs and support up to twenty other forest and wood             
  product related jobs. (5) This project will develop and manufacture high value       
  wood products using logs removed from forest restoration and Wildland Urban          
  Interface fuels reduction projects on National Forest lands in Catron County.        
  The Forestry Association will: purchase, fabricate, and install milling equipment    
  and train local operators to manufacture products made from small diameter           
  trees; participate in collaborative processes that incorporate forest restoration    
  principles and work with business enterprises; mentor young people through           
  Youth Conservation Programs; and design and coordinate community-based               
  multi-party forest restoration monitoring efforts. (6) This project will develop     
  maps, models and assessments of current, reference, and alternative future forest    
  conditions and fire behavior in the Sheep Basin and Negrito Watershed areas          
  and use a collaborative process to develop science-based prescriptions for forest    
  restoration. Treatments will restore the size and age class distribution and spatial 
  pattern of trees to their historic range and variability on approximately 456 acres  
  of the Gila National Forest. The mechanical treatments will be followed by           
  broadcast burns to reintroduce fire when it is ecologically appropriate and safe to  
  do so. The grantee and their partners will develop a model of science-based          
  adaptive management practices through multi-part monitoring and assessment of        
  the ecological and socio-economic effects of the project. (7) The project will       
  conduct forest restoration and fuels reduction treatments on approximately 249       
  acres of tribal and municipal land. The non-federal match includes the treatment     
  of 267 acres of adjoining tribal land. The project acres adjoin other on-going       
  forest restoration projects on Forest Service land (153 acres) and private land (99  
  acres). The harvested material will be used by local businesses to produce wood      
  shavings for animal bedding, compost and mulch products. Data for a multi-           
  party assessment of the ecological and socio-economic effects of the project will    
  be collected with assistance from the Mescalero Apache School and Youth              
  Conservation Corps. (8) The Santa Fe County Fire Department will thin trees to       
  reduce fire risk and restore forest health on 43 square miles of high hazard         
  County land in the Wildland Urban Interface where people have built homes and        
  live in forested areas adjacent to County lands. The County will use a               
  collaborative process to identify and prioritize areas to be treated, develop        
  treatment methods, solicit proposals from local contractors, measure and assess      
  treatment processes, implement a media campaign, analyze data, and train             
  participants.                                                                        
                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  Proposals will be evaluated to determine if they followed the administrative         
  requirements of the program and the proposal format described in the Request         
  for Proposals. The Collaborative Forest Restoration Program Technical Advisory       
  Panel will evaluate grant proposals based on the purpose and eligibility             
  requirements described in the Community Forest Restoration Act of 2000               
  (Section 3 and Section 5, Title VI, Public Law 106-393). The Panel will consider     
  the proposed projects effect on long-term management and the capability of the       
                                                                                       
  proponents to accomplish the project. The Panel will also examine the degree to

                                                                                       
  which proposed activities complement existing projects and programs and

                                                                                       
  evaluate whether the project would reduce the danger of wildland fire in high-

                                                                                       
  risk areas in New Mexico.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
10.680 FOREST HEALTH PROTECTION                                                        
                                                                                       
      (FHP)

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  FOREST SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978, Public Law 95-313; Food,                
  Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, as amended, Public Law 101-        
  624; Consolidated Appropriations Resolution FY 2003, Public Law 108-7,               
  Division F, Title II; subsequent appropriation Acts, Pubic Law 108-108.              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  Protect non-Federal forest and tree resources from damaging forest insects,          


126                                                                              11-08

  disease causing agents, and invasive plants; develop/improve forest health
  protection technologies; and monitor the health of our nation's forests.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Formula Grants; Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To assist State Foresters, State Plant Regulatory Officials, equivalent State
  officials, or other official representatives, subdivisions of states, agencies,
  institutions (public and private), organizations (profit or nonprofit), and
  individuals on non-Federal lands. Activities include: conducting surveys to
  detect and assess insect, disease, invasive plant and other stressors; monitoring
  and reporting on the health of forests and trees; recommending measures to
  prevent, retard, slow the spread, control, suppress or eradicate incipient,
  potential, threatening or emergency forest and tree pests; planning, organizing,
  directing, and performing such measures; providing technical and scientific
  information, advice, and related assistance; developing applied methods and
  technology to improve management of forest health; providing information on
  pesticides and their use; promoting implementation of appropriate silvicultural
  or management techniques to improve forest health; and taking other actions
  deemed necessary to accomplish the objectives and purposes of the Forest
  Health Protection program. Assistance to tribal lands held in trust by the United
  States Government is provided directly by the Forest Service, and thus are not
  included in this cooperative program. However, other tribal lands, such as
  Alaska Native Corporation Lands, that are not held in trust are included.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State Forestry, State Agriculture or equivalent State agencies, subdivisions of
  states, Alaska native corporations and tribal governments, institutions (public
  and private), organizations (profit and non-profit), and municipalities are
  eligible. All States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, the
  Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and the
  territories and possessions of the United States are eligible.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  State Foresters, State Plant Regulatory Officials, equivalent State officials or
  other official representatives, tribes, subdivisions of states, agencies, institutions
  (public and private), organizations (profit or nonprofit), and individuals on non-
  Federal lands.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments, as implemented by 7 CFR Part 3016.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Compliance with the National Environmental Policy Act is required for this
  program whenever pesticides are to be used. This program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  Applicants should consult the office or official designated as the single point of
  contact in their State for more information on the process the State requires to be
  followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for
  review. The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and
  required by OMB Circular No. A-102, as implemented by 7 CFR Part 3016,
  must be used for this program (i.e., SF-424).
Application Procedure:
  Not applicable. Contact Regional or Area or International Institute of Tropical
  Forestry (IITF)Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Award Procedure:
  Established by the Regional, Area or IITF Office.
Deadlines:
  States and eligible applicants are requested to submit Form SF-424(A) with SF
  424 application and other required forms as advised by the Regional, Area or
  IITF Office within 10 to 60 days.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Submission due dates are developed for each fiscal year. Contact Region, Area
  or IITF office. State single point of contact will have 30 days from notification
  of tentative allotments to comment.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Submit SF-424(A) with SF 424 application to amend the allotment amount or
  length of commitment; other requirements may be established by the Regional,
  Area or IITF Office.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funding for the Cooperative Forest Health Protection program is provided to
  states to help support a base level of professional forest health expertise for non-
  federal forest land managers. Grants for this program are allocated to states
  using a formula that is based on the number of acres of non-federal forest land
  within the states, other factors, and amount of funding available through annual
  appropriations; the purpose of this funding is to help support a base level of
  professional forest health expertise for non-federal forest land managers.
  Applicant matching for cooperative Forest Health Protection programs and
  projects that treat specific forest health problems on non-federal lands is
  required and is usually about 50%. In cases where it is mutually agreed that an
  applicant will treat Federal lands as part of a cooperative project or program, the
  Forest Service reimbursement is 100% for the federal portion. However,
