  applicant matching rates may be adjusted in emergency or extraordinary             
  situations. Forest Service cost-share rates for activities involving development of
  new and improved forest health protection methods and technologies, and the        
  conduct of special projects and evaluations are negotiated on a project-by-

  project basis with the grantee. The applicant share of cooperative programs may    
  be in the form of cash, services, or in-kind contributions. If a state elects to

  consolidate the annual Forest Service financial assistance, in lieu of functional  
  cost sharing mechanisms, the total consolidated payment to any state during any    
  fiscal year may not exceed the total amount of non-federal funds expended to       
  implement its state forest resources program during that year. However, the        
  Forest Service may exceed the non-federal amount for specific selected activities  
  under the program as long as the total federal expenditure during any fiscal year  
  does not exceed the total non-federal expenditure during that year under the state 
  forest resources program.                                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Electronic transfers of payments are encouraged.                                   
Reports:                                                                             
  Periodic and annual accomplishment reports are required.                           
Audits:                                                                              
  Periodic and annual accomplishment reports are required. In accordance with the    
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of         
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," non federal entities     
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have   
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities  
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal    
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.           
Records:                                                                             
  State and other generally accepted accounting systems are permissible, if          
  acceptable to audit and reconciliation. All grantees need to maintain adequate     
  systems for collecting and recording statistical data.                             
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-1105-0-1-302.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $40,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not             
  reported.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $25,000 to $6,000,000. Average: $1,000,000.                                        
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Annual acres of forest insect and disease surveys is approximately 500,000,000.    
  Annual acres of insect and disease suppression is approximately 1,000,000. The     
  number of applications received and funded is not available without an             
  additional data gathering effort from among field line units. Grants and           
  agreements for base forest health programs on cooperative lands are not            
  competitive, but are of a continuing nature, annually renewable, and based on      
  negotiated targets. Grant and agreements for pest prevention and suppression       
  projects, methods and technology development and special projects are generally    
  competitive and solicited through Requests for Proposals. The total percentage     
  of applications received and funded was 100 for base programs.                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Forest Service Manual- Title 3400 is available in all Forest Service offices, and  
  State Forestry agency offices. OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-87, as                
  implemented by 7 CFR Part 3016, are applicable to State and local government       
  grantees.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for Regional and Northeastern Area State       
  and Private Forestry offices of the Forest Service and for addresses and           
  telephone numbers of Regional Foresters and Northeastern Area Director of the      
  Forest Service.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Deputy Chief, State and Private Forestry, Forest Service, Department of            
  Agriculture, P.O. Box 96090, Washington, DC 20090-6090. Telephone: (202)           
  205-1657.                                                                          
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.fs.fed%20us/spf/coop.                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  10.064, Forestry Incentives Program; 10.670, National Forest_Dependent Rural       
  Communities; 10.901, Resource Conservation and Development.                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Granted the Alaska Division of Forestry $60,000 for biological control of birch    
  leafminer infestation on private lands. Granted Colorado State Forest Service      
  $1,000,000 for treatments to control mountain pine beetle infestations on non-     
  federal lands within the state. Granted the Minnesota Department of Natural        
  Resource's Division of Forestry $300,000 to control the spread of oak wilt on      
  private lands within the state. Granted the Alabama Forestry Commission            
  $1,000,000 to carry out treatments on non-federal lands to help prevent future     
  southern pine beetle outbreaks. Granted the Oregon Department of Forestry          
  $150,000 for treatments to help eradicate sudden oak death infections in the       
  state. Granted the Tennessee Dept. of Agriculture $450,000 for treatments it       
  eradicate an isolated gypsy moth infestation in the state.                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    


                                                                                11-08
  All grants and cooperative agreements are approved on the basis of negotiated
  targets, project objectives to be achieved, and relationship to national and
  regional forest health issues, priorities, and needs.
10.681 WOOD EDUCATION AND RESOURCE CENTER
(WERC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOREST SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 105-277, Div. A, Section 101(e) Title III, Section 343, 112 Stat.
  2681-231, 2681-297; Cooperative Forestry Assistance Act of 1978, as amended,
  16 U.S.C. 2101 et. seq.; Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Act of
  1978, as amended, 6 U.S.C. 1600-1614.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide funds, on a cost-share basis, for projects that focus on enhancing
  opportunities for sustained forest products production for primary and secondary
  hardwood industries located in the eastern hardwood forest region. In order to
  maintain and improve the health and stewardship of our eastern hardwood
  forests, local wood-using industries need to be vibrant and able to utilize a wide
  variety of resources from the forest. Priorities include: Maintain the economic
  competitiveness of hardwood industries. Bring information and technology to
  existing and emerging businesses involved in the development and
  manufacturing of wood products. Bring marketing and business-related skills to
  existing and emerging wood products businesses. Encourage the adoption of
  new technology to improve competitiveness and profitability. Provide support
  and key information to entrepreneurs and start-up businesses. Address global
  issues and assist communities and industries facing threats from invasive
  species, such as the emerald ash borer. Increase the use of woody biomass for
  domestic energy use. In addition, the primary mission of WERC is to foster
  interaction and information exchange with the forest products industry to
  enhance opportunities for sustained forest products production in the eastern
  hardwood forest region of the United States.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Projects need to compliment existing activities and/or focus on niches that are
  not being met by either industry or service providers. In addition, projects need
  to clearly document industry support and involvement.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Nonfederal agencies; public and private agencies including State, local and
  tribal governments; institutions of higher education; non-profit organizations;
  for-profit organizations; corporations; businesses; and others.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Nonfederal agencies; public and private agencies including State, local and
  tribal governments; institutions of higher education; non-profit organizations;
  for-profit organizations; corporations; businesses; and others located in the 35
  states of the eastern hardwood forest region including: AL, AR, CT, DE, FL,
  GA, IL, IN, IA, KS, KY, LA, ME, MD, MA, MI, MN, MS, MO, NE, NH, NJ,
  NY, NC, OH, OK, PA, RI, SC, TN, TX, VT, VA, WV, WI.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An application package (including instructions, application, and electronic
  location of financial forms) is developed each year that provides guidelines for
  applicants to follow in developing their proposal. Standard financial application
  forms (SF-424, SF-424A, and Certifications) are required. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A formal request for proposals is announced at http://www.na.fs.fed.us/werc/ as
  well as www.grants.gov/ normally around December 1st of each year.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted to the Forest Service. Proposals are evaluated based on a
  number of criteria including: alignment with WERC's mission and goals, focus
  on yearly priority items, clear deliverables, industry support, minimal
  duplication, length of time.
Deadlines:
  Completed applications are due to the Forest Service normally two months after
  the announcement of the request for proposals.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approximately 90 days after the application the application deadline.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  SF-424A with SF-424 application is required to amend the awarded amount or
  length of commitment. Unsuccessful applications can be resubmitted in a future
  years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  No formula funding. Funds reimbursed by the Federal Government for
  competitive grants may not exceed 50 percent of the support expended by a
                                                                                  127
