  grantee. Non-federal share of matching funds may be in the form of cash,              
  services, or in-kind contributions.                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Grants are normally awarded for a period of 18 months.                                
Reports:                                                                                
  Annual accomplishment reports and final accomplishment report.                        
Audits:                                                                                 
  Periodic and annual accomplishment reports are required. In accordance with the       
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of             
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities          
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have      
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities     
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal       
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.              
Records:                                                                                
  All recipients need to maintain records adequate to collect and report statistical    
  data.                                                                                 
Account Identification:                                                                 
  12-1105-0-1-302.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $1,700,000; FY 08 est $1,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  Range varies from $10,000 to $200,000. Average grant award is about $63,000.          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-87 are applicable to State and Local                    
  Governments, A-110 and A-21 are applicable to educational institutions, and A-        
  110 and A-122 are applicable to Nonprofit Organizations. USDA Implementing            
  Regulations 7 CFR 3015, 3016, 3017, 3018, and 3019 also apply depending on            
  the type of recipient. The program is announced through the Wood Education            
  and Resource Center website and Grants.Gov website.                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  USDA Forest Service, Wood Education and Resource Center, 301 Hardwood                 
  Lane, Princeton, WV 24740. Telephone: (304) 487-1510. Fax: (304) 487-                 
  6661.                                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  USDA Forest Service, Wood Education and Resource Center, 301 Hardwood                 
  Lane, Princeton, WV 24740. Telephone: (304) 487-1510. Fax: (304) 487-                 
  6661.                                                                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.na.fs.fed.us/werc/.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Projects range from developing how-to documents, to software tools for

                                                                                        
  improved manufacturing efficiencies, to technology development and                    
  implementation, to workshop and training focused on leadership and                    
  management skills needed in forest products businesses, to methods for                
  maintaining and/or expanding economic competitiveness.                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  An evaluation panel is convened on an annual basis to evaluate and rate               
  proposals received. Proposals are evaluated on a number of criteria including         
  alignment with WERC's mission and goals, focus on yearly priority items, clear        
  deliverables, industry support, minimal duplication, length of time, multi-state      
  project, training.                                                                    
                                                                                        
10.684 INTERNATIONAL FORESTRY PROGRAMS                                                  
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  FOREST SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                        
  International Forestry Cooperation Act of 1990, Act of November 4, 1990,

                                                                                        
  Public Law 101-513, Title VI; 104 Stat. 2070; 16 U.S.C. 4501 (note), 4501-

                                                                                        
  4503, 4503a-d, 4504-4505.

                                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                        
  To extend Forest Service efforts to improve forest policies and practices

                                                                                        
  internationally, conserve and protect critical global forest environments and

                                                                                        
  resources, and improve the lives of forest-dependent peoples by awarding grants

                                                                                        
  to and entering into cooperative agreements with nonprofit organizations,

                                                                                        
  multilateral organizations, and other individuals, organizations, institutions, and   
  governments engaged in forest conservation and management.                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                        
  Grants and cooperative agreements are used to carry out, supplement and

                                                                                        
  complement Forest Service international activities in a wide range of fields,         
  including but not limited to forest policies and regulations, forest products trade,  
  forest management practices, wildlife management, watershed management,               
  recreation and tourism, fire management, forest insect and disease prevention         
  and response, invasive species preventions and response, disaster response and

128                                                                               11-08

  mitigation, landscape planning, forest product development and utilization,
  climate change adaptation and mitigation, forest economics, and training and
  institutional strengthening. Grants will be limited to five years.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Potential applicants include U.S. and international organizations, educational
  institutions, government entities, and individuals. International applicants must
  be from countries sanctioned by the State Department.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Potential beneficiaries include host-country forest management agencies, non-
  profit organizations, forest landowners in the target countries, forest-dependent
  communities and peoples in the targeted countries, and U.S. landowners and
  organizations involved in or concerned with invasive species mitigation,
  migratory species conservation, legal trade in forest products, and the impact of
  climate change on forests.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Project managers and organizations must document competence in the field and
  activities of the project proposed. Eligible projects must fit within the U.S.
  Forest Service International Programs priorities, comply with all federal grants
  and agreements regulations, and be documented through a completed grant
  application.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  A complete proposal must be submitted to International Programs and explain in
  detail the work to be undertaken, the qualifications of key personnel involved in
  the work, resources such as equipment, facilities, services available or needed,
  and a detailed proposed budget for each fiscal year during the life of the grant.
  All grant proposals must show technical competence and demonstrate ability to
  meet international, transnational, national, regional or local needs. Proposals for
  federal financial assistance must also submit a SF-424, SF-424(A) and (B).
Award Procedure:
  Proposals will be evaluated by the Forest Service Office of International
  Programs, in consultation with the U.S. State Department and the U.S. Agency
  for International Development, where relevant, for purposes of ensuring
  compliance with U.S. foreign policy and objectives. Proposed activities will be
  assessed for their ability to improve forest management and the welfare of forest-
  dependent peoples in the targeted country or countries, as well as their ability to
  enhance or complement existing or planned Forest Service programs and
  activities.
Deadlines:
  Applicants are required to submit Form SF-424 and all associated documents for
  each eligible project. Applications are received on a revolving basis and are
  reviewed subject to available funding.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  120 days.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Requests for continued support will be considered as equal in importance and in
  competition with pending proposals. Applications submitted for continued
  support should be identical to a new proposal along with a detailed summary of
  progress to date. Applications for continued support must be received no later
  than 3 months prior to the expiration of the existing grant or agreement.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The applicant's contribution is negotiated. The proposed budget by fiscal year
  shows the estimated cost of the complete project from grant funds and the value
  of resources to be contributed by the applicant. The non-Federal cost share may
  consist of: funds, donations, in-kind contributions, direct costs, indirect costs,
  and other as determined by the Forest Service. Funds will be provided on a per-
  project basis, as determined by annual budget allocations.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Up to 5 years. Billing and invoices for expenses incurred may be submitted
  quarterly or semi-annually. Electronic transfers of payments are encouraged.
Reports:
  Technical progress reports are required semi-annually. Financial status reports
  are required quarterly. Final technical reports and financial status reports are
  due within 1 month of the completion of the project or of the expiration of the
  agreement, whichever is first.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  All related data, information, records and accounts shall be retained for 3 years
  beyond the expiration date of the grant unless other disposition is specified in
  writing by the awarding agency.
Account Identification:
  12-1105-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $361,620; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
