PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In Fiscal Years 2005-2007, approximately 50 grants were made.                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Please consult with International Programs for information relevant to a specific  
  proposal.                                                                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Washington, DC.                                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Washington, DC.                                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  www.fs.fed.us/global.                                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Examples of executed grants are: Reforestation and Panda Habitat Conservation      
  in Southwest China, Training for Improved Forest Practices in Brazil, Migratory    
  Bird Habitat Improvement and Conservation in Mexico, Policy and Technology         
  Training to improve transparency in the Forest Sector in Russia, Development of    
  Protected Area Education Curriculum and Training in Southern Africa,               
  Development of a Financial Assessment Model for Reduced Impact Logging,            
  Middle East Regional Cooperation on Watershed Monitoring Protocols.                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Criteria are established on a program-by-program basis and approved based on       
  the negotiated objectives to be achieved at international, national, regional and  
  local levels.                                                                      
                                                                                     
10.700 NATIONAL AGRICULTURAL LIBRARY

                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                       
  AGRICULTURE                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  5 U.S.C. 301, 552, 5946; 7 U.S.C. 450b, 450i, 2201, 2202, 2204, 2206, 2244,        
  2264, 2265, and 3318.                                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To serve as the Nation's Chief Agricultural information resource by providing      
  agricultural information products and services through traditional library         
  functions and through modern electronic dissemination to agencies of the           
  USDA, public organizations, and individuals.                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Dissemination of Technical Information.                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Anyone can use the services. Publications in the library collection are available  
  through interlibrary loan or photo-reproduction, and the library facilities are    
  open to anyone wishing to use them.                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Individuals, State and local governments, educational organizations, research      
  societies, business and industry including those located in the U.S. Territories.  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Individuals, State and local governments, educational organizations, research      
  societies, business and industry including those located in the U.S. Territories.  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Apply by letter to the Office of Associate Director, Public Services Division,     
  National Agricultural Library, Beltsville, MD 20705.                               
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  Not applicable.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  None.                                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  None.                                                                              
Reports:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  None.                                                                              
Records:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-1400-0-1-352.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         


                                                                                11-08
  (Services) FY 07 $22,801,000; FY 08 est $21,561,000; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Resources number over 3.3 million items.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  "Guide to the Services of the National Agricultural Library."
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of the Director, National Agricultural Library, Beltsville, MD 20705-
  2351. Telephone: (301) 504-6780. Use the same number for FTS. Contact:
  Extramural Agreements Division.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nal.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.001, Agricultural Research_Basic and Applied Research; 10.153, Market
  News; 10.250, Agricultural and Rural Economic Research; 10.950, Agricultural
  Statistics Reports; 42.003, Distribution of Library of Congress Cataloging;
  42.005, Library of Congress Publications; 42.006, Library of Congress_Library
  Services; 42.007, Reference Services in Science, Technology and Business.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  None.
10.760 WATER AND WASTE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS FOR
RURAL COMMUNITIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended, Section 306,
  Public Law 92-419, 7 U.S.C. 1926.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide basic human amenities, alleviate health hazards and promote the
  orderly growth of the rural areas of the nation by meeting the need for new and
  improved rural water and waste disposal facilities.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Direct Loans; Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used for the installation, repair, improvement, or expansion of a
  rural water facility including distribution lines, well pumping facilities and costs
  related thereto, and the installation, repair, improvement, or expansion of a rural
  waste disposal facility including the collection, and treatment of sanitary, storm,
  and solid wastes. Grant funds may not be used to pay: interest on loans,
  operation and maintenance costs, or acqusition or refinancing of an existing
  system. No maximum loan amount is established by statute. The maximum term
  on all loans is 40 years. However, no repayment period will exceed any statutory
  limitation or the organization's borrowing authority or the useful life of the
  improvement or facility to be financed. There are currently three interest rates
  for direct loans: a 4.5 percent rate when the loan is required to meet health or
  sanitary standards and the median household income of the service area is below
  the higher of the poverty line or 80 percent of the statewide nonmetropolitan
  median household income; an intermediate rate halfway between 4.5 percent and
  market rate if the median household income of the service area is not more than
  100 percent of the nonmetropolitan median household income of the State; and a
  market rate for those applicants that do not qualify for 4.5 percent or the
  intermediate rate. The interest rate on guaranteed loans is negotiable between the
  applicant and the lender.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Municipalities, counties, other political subdivisions of a State such as districts
  and authorities, associations, cooperatives, corporations operated on a not-for-
  profit basis, Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations and other Federally
  recognized Indian tribes. The applicant must: (1) be unable to finance the
  proposed project from its own resources or through commercial credit at
  reasonable rates and terms; and (2) have the legal authority necessary for
  constructing, operating, and maintaining the proposed facility or service, and for
  obtaining, giving security for, and repaying the proposed loan. Facilities shall
  primarily serve rural residents and rural businesses. The service area shall not
  include any area in any city or town having a population in excess of 10,000
  inhabitants according to the latest decennial census of the United States. Plans
  and specifications must be developed to comply with State and local health and
  pollution regulations and other requirements. Grants are made only when
  necessary to reduce the average annual benefited user charges to a reasonable
  level. Normally, grants are considered only when the debt service portion of the
  cost to grant eligible users exceeds the following percentages of median
  household incomes (MHI) for the applicant service area: 0.5 percent when the
  MHI of the service area is below the poverty line or below 80 percent (whichever
                                                                                    129
