  is higher) of the State's non-metropolitan household income (NMHI); 1.0 percent    
  when the NMHI of the service area exceeds the 0.5 percent requirement but is       
  not more than 100 percent of the State's NMHI; no RUS grant funds will be used     
  in any project when the MHI of the service area is above the poverty line and      
  more than 100 percent of the State's NMHI. The RUS grant may not exceed 75         
  percent of the eligible project development cost when the MHI of the service       
  area is below the poverty line or below 80 percent (whichever is higher) of the    
  State's NMHI and the project is necessary to alleviate a health or sanitary        
  problem; 45 percent when the MHI of the service area exceeds the 75 percent        
  requirements, but is not more than 100 percent of the State's NMHI. Assistance     
  is authorized for eligible applicants in rural areas of the United States, Puerto  
  Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, Commonwealth of Northern Mariana Islands,          
  American Samoa, and to the extent the Secretary determines feasible and            
  appropriate, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Farmers, ranchers, rural residents, rural businesses and other users in eligible   
  applicant areas.                                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility and financial responsibility      
  relative to the activity for which assistance is requested. Costs will be          
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local            
  governments and OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations.                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The standard application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by     
  OMB Circular No. A-102 must be used for this program. An environmental             
  assessment is required for this program. This program is eligible for coverage     
  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An               
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of  
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires 
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program   
  for review.                                                                        
Application Procedure:                                                               
  USDA Rural Development (RD) offices administer the program on the local            
  level. Application Form SF-424 is filed at the local RD Office from which          
  assistance may be obtained. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB       
  Circular No. A-110.                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  After the application has been reviewed at the local level, it is forwarded to the 
  RD State Director for review and processing instructions. Following completion     
  of application processing requirements and loan/grant approval, funds are made     
  available to the applicant.                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 30 to 90 days.

Appeals:                                                                             
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated. The     
  applicant may request a review of this decision at the RD or RUS National level.   
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula. Funds are allocated to States based upon    
  rural population, number of households in poverty, and unemployment. This          
  program has no matching requirements.                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  A time limitation is not specified for the use of RUS loan or grant funds. Funds   
  will be awarded when all RUS requirements are met and the project can be           
  completed on a timely basis. Funds may be advanced on an as needed basis by        
  the RUS to cover expenses for a 30-day period.                                     
Reports:                                                                             
  Periodic reports are to be made to the RD servicing official.                      
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                    
  Organizations," non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000  
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit           
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a      
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,   
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                             
Records:                                                                             
  Records and accounts are required to reflect the operations of the facility.       
Account Identification:                                                              
  (Loans) 12-4155-0-3-452; (Grants and Loans) 12-0400-0-1-452.                       
Obligations:                                                                         
  Direct Loans) FY 07 est $990,000,000; FY 08 est $1,080,236,000; and FY 09          
  est not reported. (Guaranteed Loans) FY 07 est $75,000,000; FY 08 est              
  $75,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported. (Grants) FY 07 est $349,385,000; FY       
  08 est. $349,385,000; and FY 09 est not reported. Note: Technical Assistance       
  and Training (TAT) and grants earmarked under Section 306C of the                  
  Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act to Note: Colonias are included         


130                                                                            11-08

  in these estimates.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  (FY 2005) (Direct Loans) $3,400 to $9,999,900; $1,064,000; (Grants) $600 to
  $8,090,000; $619,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  It is estimated that 800 direct, 2 guaranteed loans, and 700 grants will be made
  in fiscal year 2007. It is estimated that 900 direct, 2 guaranteed loans, and 800
  grants will be made in fiscal year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 1780, Water and Waste Loans and Grants, 7 CFR 1779, Water and Waste
  Disposal Program Guaranteed Loans.
Regional or Local Office:
  Consult your local telephone directory for Rural Development local number. If
  no listing, get in touch with the appropriate Rural Development State Office
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs, Rural Utilities
  Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202)
  690-2670.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.300, Investments for Public Works and Economic Development Facilities;
  14.218, Community Development Block Grants/Entitlement Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The following areas received funds for specified projects: Construct new water
  system consisting of water lines, pumping stations, wells, storage tanks and
  treatment plants; water system improvements consisting of additional water
  lines, new water treatment facility and booster pump; renovation of existing
  water system which includes new distribution lines, wells and pressure tanks;
  construct new waste water collection and treatment systems; replace waste water
  treatment plant and improve waste water collection lines; rehabilitate waste
  water collection lines and construct lift station; purchase site for landfill; and
  purchase trucks and equipment for solid waste disposal.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  In selecting applications for funding, the agency cooperates with appropriate
  State agencies. RUS assistance for water and waste disposal projects will be
  directed toward truly rural areas and rural communities. Considerations for
  available funds emphasize such criteria as: Population; low income
  unemployment; and health and sanitary problems. RUS financed facilities will
  not be inconsistent with any development plans of the State, multi-jurisdictional
  area, county, or municipality in which the proposed project is located.
10.761 TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE AND TRAINING
GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended, Sections
  306(a)(16)(A), Public Law 99-198, 7 U.S.C. 1926(a).
OBJECTIVES:
  To identify and evaluate solutions to water and waste disposal problems in rural
  areas; to assist applicants in preparing applications made in accordance with 7
  CFR 1780; to improve operation and maintenance of water and waste disposal
  facilities in rural areas.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to pay expenses associated with providing technical
  assistance and/or training (TAT) to identify and evaluate solutions to water
  problems relating to source, storage, treatment, and distribution, and to waste
  disposal problems relating to collection, treatment, and disposal; assist
  applicants that have filed a preapplication with RUS in the preparation of water
  and/or waste disposal loan and/or grant applications; and to provide training that
  will improve the management, operation and maintenance of water and waste
  disposal facilities. Grant funds may not be used to recruit applications,
  duplicate current services such as those performed by a consultant in developing
  a project, fund political activities, pay for capital assets, purchase real estate or
  vehicles, improve and renovate office space or repair and maintain privately
  owned property, pay construction or O&M costs, and pay costs incurred prior to
  the effective date of grants made.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private nonprofit organizations that have been granted tax exempt status by the
  Internal Revenue Service of the United States. Applicants must have proven
  ability, background, experience, legal authority and actual capacity to provide
  technical assistance and/or training on a regional basis to associations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Entities that may be eligible for water and waste disposal loans and grants
  (10.760) such as municipalities, counties, districts, authorities, and other
