  political subdivisions of a State, organizations operated on a not-for-profit basis,
  such as associations, cooperatives, or private corporations, Indian tribes on       
  Federal and State reservations and other federally recognized Indian tribes.        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-110 and A-         
  122.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. An environmental           
  impact assessment is required for this program.

Application Procedure:

  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-110 and A-

                                                                                      
  122. Preapplication form SF 424.1, will be filed with the appropriate Rural         
  Development (RD), formerly FMHA, State or Rural Utilities Service (RUS)             
  National Office between October 1 and December 31 each fiscal year.                 
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Preapplications received by an RD State office will be reviewed and forwarded       
  with any written comments within 7 working days to the RUS National Office,         
  Washington, DC.                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Preapplications must be filed between October 1 and December 31 of each fiscal      
  year.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Form AD-622 "Notice of Preapplication Review Action" will normally be issued        
  within 45 days after December 31 of each year. SF 424.1 "Application for            
  Federal Assistance (for Non-construction)," will be submitted by the applicant      
  upon notification of funding eligibility.                                           
Appeals:                                                                              
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated. The      
  applicant may request a review of this decision with the National Appeals           
  Division of USDA.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements. Not less than       
  one percent or more than three percent of appropriated Water and Waste              
  Disposal grant funds may be used for TAT grants. Nonprofit organizations with       
  proven ability to provide technical assistance/training are eligible.               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  A time limitation is not specified, however, priority will be given to applicants   
  whose time frame for completion of the technical assistance and/or training         
  grant project is 12 months or less.                                                 
Reports:                                                                              
  All grantees will submit quarterly reports to the RUS National Office through       
  the appropriate RD State Office.                                                    
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other         
  records pertinent to the grant must be retained for a period of at least three years
  after closing.                                                                      
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-0400-0-1-452.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $18,358,694; FY 08 est $16,215,000; and FY 09 est not                
  reported. (Note: Grants included in program 10.760, Water and Waste Disposal        
  Systems for Rural Communities).                                                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $40,000 to $10,270,000. Average: $5,155,000 (FY 07).                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In fiscal year 2007, 12 grants were made.                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  7 CFR, Part 1775, Technical Assistance and Training Grants.                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Consult your local telephone directory for RD district office number. If no         
  listing, get in touch with the appropriate RD State Office listed in Appendix IV    
  of the Catalog.                                                                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs, Rural Utilities          
  Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202)          
  690-2670.                                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                 11-08
  Recipients of this program received funds to administer technical assistance and
  training to small communities experiencing water and waste disposal problems.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Assistance will be directed to those applicants who: (1) Have demonstrated
  ability to provide technical assistance and/or training to rural associations; (2)
  propose to serve multi-state, regional, or nationwide areas; (3) maximize use of
  grant funds for direct staffing of activities that are delivered to the associations;
  and (4) the population of the associations served have low income.
10.762 SOLID WASTE MANAGEMENT GRANTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended, Section 310B,
  Public Law 101-624, 7 U.S.C. 1932.
OBJECTIVES:
  To reduce or eliminate pollution of water resources and improve planning and
  management of solid waste disposal facilities in rural areas.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds may be used to: Evaluate current landfill conditions to determine threats
  to water resources in rural areas; provide technical assistance and/or training to
  enhance operator skills in the maintenance and operation of active landfills in
  rural areas; provide technical assistance and/or training to help associations
  reduce the solid waste stream; and provide technical assistance and/or training
  for operators of landfills in rural areas which are closed or will be closed in the
  near future with the development/implementation of closure plans, future land
  use plans, safety and maintenance planning, and closure scheduling within
  permit requirements. Grant funds may not be used to: Recruit
  preapplications/applications for any loan and/or grant program including RUS
  Water and Waste Disposal Loan and/or Grant Program; duplication of current
  services, replacement or substitution of support previously provided such as
  those performed by an association's consultant in developing a project; fund
  political activities; pay for capital assets, the purchase of real estate or vehicles,
  improve and renovate office space, or repair and maintain privately-owned
  property; pay for construction or operation and maintenance costs of water and
  waste facilities; and pay costs incurred prior to the effective date of grants made
  under this subpart.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Entities eligible for grants are nonprofit organizations, including: Private
  nonprofit organizations that have been granted tax exempt status by the Internal
  Revenue Service (IRS); and public bodies including local governmental-based
  multijurisdictional organizations. Applicants must have the proven ability,
  background, experience, legal authority, and actual capacity to provide technical
  assistance and/or training on a regional basis to eligible beneficiaries.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Municipalities, counties, districts, authorities, and other political subdivisions of
  a State, organizations operated on a not-for-profit basis, such as associations,
  cooperatives, and private nonprofit corporations, Indian tribes on Federal and
  State reservations and other federally recognized Indian tribes.
Credentials/Documentation:
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-87, and A-
  122.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372. An environmental
  impact assessment is required for this program.
Application Procedure:
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-87, A-102,
  A-110, and A-122. Preapplication Form SF 424.1, will be filed with the
  appropriate Rural Development (RD), formerly FMHA, State or Rural Utilities
  Service (RUS) National Office between October 1 and December 31 each fiscal
  year.
Award Procedure:
  Preapplications received by an RD State Office will be reviewed and forwarded
  with any written comments within seven working days to the RUS approval
  official.
Deadlines:
  Preapplications must be filed between October 1 and December 31 of each fiscal
  year in which funds are appropriated.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Form AD-622, "Notice of Preapplication Review Action," will normally be
  issued within 45 days after December 31 of each year. SF-424.1, "Application
  for Federal Assistance (for Non-Construction)," will be submitted by the
  applicant upon notification of funding eligibility.
Appeals:
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated. The
  applicant may request a review of this decision with the National Appeals
  Division of USDA.
                                                                                       131
