Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  A time limitation is not specified, however, priority will be given to applicants    
  whose time frame for completion of the grant project is 12 months or less.           
Reports:                                                                               
  All grantees will submit quarterly reports to the RUS approval official.             
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"       
  non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted     
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records, and all other          
  records pertinent to the grant must be retained for a period of at least three years 
  after closing.                                                                       
Account Identification:                                                                
  12-0400-0-1-452.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $3,465,000; FY 08 est $3,465,000; and FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $18,000 to $205,000. Average: $86,625.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                       
  In fiscal year 2006, 39 grants were made; FY 2007, 40 grants were made.

                                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                       
  7 CFR 1775, Technical Assistance and Training Grants.

Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Consult your local telephone directory for RD District Office number. If no          
  listing, get in touch with the appropriate RD State Office listed in Appendix IV     
  of the Catalog.                                                                      
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs, Rural Utilities           
  Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202)           
  690-2670.                                                                            
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Recipients of this program received funds to administer technical assistance in      
  areas of solid waste management to small communities.                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Grant funds will be directed to those applicants who; (1) Have demonstrated          
  ability to provide technical assistance on a regional basis to rural communities;    
  (2) propose to assist small, low income communities; (3) propose to serve multi-     
  State, regional or nationwide areas; (4) the extent to which the proposed project    
  is cost effective; and (5) meet the objectives of RUS Water and Waste Disposal       
  Program.                                                                             
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
10.763 EMERGENCY COMMUNITY WATER ASSISTANCE                                            
GRANTS                                                                                 
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                       
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                                                                                       
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                       
  Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, Section 306A; Food,

                                                                                       
  Agriculture, Conservation, and Trade Act of 1990, Title XXIII, Public Law 101-

                                                                                       
  624.                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  Through the Emergency Community Water Assistance Grant Program, the Rural            
  Utilities Service (RUS) is authorized to help rural residents who have               
  experienced a significant decline in quantity or quality of water to obtain          
  adequate quantities of water that meet the standards of the Safe Drinking Water      
  Act.                                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants.                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Grant funds may be used to extend waterlines on existing systems; to construct       
  new water lines; to repair existing systems; to perform significant maintenance      
  on existing systems; to construct new wells, reservoirs, transmission                
  lines,treatment plants, storage tanks, etc.; to replace equipment; to provide        
  connection and/or tap fees; to pay costs incurred within six months of the date      
  an application was filed with USDA to correct an emergency situation that            
  would have been eligible for funding under this program; to provide funds for        
  any other appropriate related purposes, such as, legal fees; engineering fees;       


132                                                                              11-08

  recording costs; environmental impact analyses; archaeological surveys; possible
  salvage or other mitigation measures; planning, establishing, or acquiring rights
  associated with developing sources of treating, storing, or distributing water; and
  to assist rural water systems in complying with the requirements of the Federal
  Water Pollution Control Act or the Safe Drinking Water Act, when failure to
  comply is directly related to a recent decline in quality of potable water. Grants
  provided under this program shall not be used to assist a rural area or
  community with a population in excess of 10,000; to assist a rural area that has a
  median household income in excess of the statewide nonmetropolitan median
  household income according to the most recent decennial census of the U.S.; to
  finance facilities which are not modest in size, design, and cost; to pay loan or
  grant finder's fees; to pay any annual recurring costs considered to be operational
  expenses; to pay rental for the use of equipment or machinery owned by the rural
  community; to purchase existing systems; to refinance existing indebtedness;
  and to make reimbursement for projects developed with other grant funds.
  Grants made to alleviate a significant decline in quantity or quality of water
  available from the water supplies in rural areas that occurred within two years of
  filing an application with USDA cannot exceed $500,000. Grants for repairs,
  partial replacement, or significant maintenance on an established system cannot
  exceed $150,000.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Rural Development Utilities Programs may make grants to public bodies, private
  nonprofit corporations, and political subdivisions of a State, as well as Indian
  tribes.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public bodies, private nonprofit corporations, and political subdivisions of a
  State, as well as Indian tribes.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments and OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit
  organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. An environmental impact assessment
  is required for this program. The standard application forms as furnished by the
  Federal agency and required by 7 CFR Parts 3015 and 3016 must be used for
  this program.
Application Procedure:
  Rural Development (RD) State Director will administer the program on the local
  level. This program is subject to the provisions of 7 CFR Parts 3015 and 3016.
  Application Form SF-424 will be filed with the appropriate RD District office.
Award Procedure:
  Applications received will be reviewed and scored for funding priority by the
  RD State office. The RD State Director will request funds from the National
  office. Projects must compete on a national basis for available funds.
Deadlines:
  All funding requests will be reviewed by the National office after November 1 of
  each year and continue until June 30 of each year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Within 60 days of receipt of complete application.
Appeals:
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated. The
  applicant may request a review of this decision at the higher management level
  of RUS.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Request for funds, as needed.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The grantee shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant
  funds are used for authorized purposes.
Account Identification:
  12-0400-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  ((Grants) FY 07 $6,959,192; FY 08 est $7,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
