  Public Law 92-419, 7 U.S.C. 1932.                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist public, private, or cooperative organizations (profit or nonprofit),      
  Indian tribes or individuals in rural areas to obtain quality loans for the purpose 
  of improving, developing or financing business, industry, and employment and        
  improving the economic and environmental climate in rural communities               
  including pollution abatement and control.                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Guaranteed loans may be extended for: (a) modernization, development costs;         
  (b) purchasing and development of land, easements, rights-of-way, buildings,        
  facilities, leases or materials; (c) purchasing equipment, leasehold                
  improvements, machinery and supplies; (d) projects involving agricultural           
  production, when not eligible for Farm Service Agency farmer program                
  assistance and when it is part of an integrated business also involved in the       
  processing of agricultural products and the agricultural production portion of the  
  loan does not exceed the lessor of 50 percent of the total loan or $1 million; and  
  (e) pollution control and abatement. Maximum loan size is $25 million. For          
  cooperative organizations under certain conditions, the maximum loan size is        
  $40 million. Maximum time allowable for final maturity is limited to 30 years       
  for land and buildings, the usable life of machinery and equipment purchased        
  with loan funds, not to exceed 15 years, and 7 years for working capital. Interest  
  rates for guaranteed loans are negotiated between the lender and the borrower.      
  For loans of $5 million or less, the maximum percentage of guarantee is 80          
  percent. For loans over $5 million but not over $10 million, the maximum            
  percentage of guarantee is 70 percent. For loans in excess of $10 million up to     
  $40 million, the maximum percentage of guarantee is 60 percent. Losses on           
  principal advanced, including protective advances, and accrued interest, may be     
  guaranteed by the Agency, but the maximum loss paid by RBS will never exceed        
  the original principal plus accrued interest. Loans may not be made for: (a)        
  distribution or payment to the owner, partners, shareholders, or beneficiaries of   
  the applicant or members of their families when such persons shall retain any       
  portion of their equity in the business; (b) the transfer of ownership of a business
  unless the loan will keep the business from closing, or prevent the loss of         
  employment opportunities in the area, or provide expanded job opportunities; (c)    
  the guarantee of lease payments; (d) charitable institutions, churches, fraternal   
  organizations, lending and investment institutions and insurance companies; (e)     
  any legitimate business activity where more than 10 percent of the annual gross     
  income is derived from legalized gambling; (f) the guarantee of loans made by       
  other Federal agencies except those made by Banks for Cooperatives, Federal         
  Land Bank or Production Credit Associations; (g) golf courses; (h) racetracks       
  where individual prizes are awarded in the amount of $500 or more; (i) owner-       
  occupied housing; (j) projects eligible for the Rural Rental Housing and Rural      
  Cooperative Housing loans under sections 515, 521, and 538 of the Housing Act       
  of 1949, as amended; and (k) any project which is likely to result in the transfer  
  of business or employment from one area to another or cause production which        
  exceeds demand. Interested parties should contact the Rural Business-               
  Cooperative Service (RBS) or the nearest Rural Development State Office which       
  administers the programs at the local level. Insurance companies; (e) any           
  legitimate business activity where more Than 10 percent of the annual gross         
  income is derived from legalized gambling; (f) the guarantee of loans made by       
  other Federal agencies except those made by Banks for Cooperatives, Federal         
  Land Bank or Production Credit Associations; (g) golf courses; (h) racetracks       
  where individual prizes are awarded in the amount of $500 or more; (i) owner-       
  occupied housing; (j) projects eligible for the Rural Rental Housing and Rural      
  Cooperative Housing loans under sections 515, 521, and 538 of the Housing Act       
  of 1949, as amended; and (k) any project which is likely to result in the transfer  
  of business or employment from one area to another or cause production which        
  exceeds demand. Interested parties should contact the Rural Business-               
  Cooperative Service (RBS) or the nearest Rural Development                          
  StateOfficewhichadministers the programs at the local level.                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  An applicant may be a cooperative, corporation, partnership, trust, or other legal  
  entity organized and operated on a profit or nonprofit basis; an Indian tribe; a    
  municipality, county, or other political subdivision of a State; or individuals in  
                                                                                      
  rural areas. Applicants for guaranteed loans must be located in one of the fifty

                                                                                      
  States, Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the

                                                                                      
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of Palau, the

                                                                                      
  Federated States of Micronesia, or the Republic of the Marshall Islands in rural

                                                                                      
  areas other than a city, having a population of fifty thousand or more and its

                                                                                      
  contingent adjacent urbanized area, as determined by the Secretary of

                                                                                      
  Agriculture according to the latest decennial census of the United States.

                                                                                      
  Preference is given to loans in open country, rural communities and towns with

                                                                                      
  populations of 25,000 or less, and, on applications of equal priority, to veterans.

                                                                                      
  Applicants must be U.S. citizens or reside in the U.S. after being legally          
  admitted for permanent residence and, if corporations, at least 51 percent owned    
  by such individuals.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Beneficiaries include cooperatives, corporations, partnerships, trust or legal



                                                                                 11-08
  entities organized and operated for profit or nonprofit, Federally recognized
  Indian Tribal Governments and individuals in rural cities and towns of less than
  50,000 population.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility and financial responsibility
  relative to the activity for which assistance is requested. This program is
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. All preapplication letters must be
  coordinated fully with appropriate State agencies in keeping with E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs," in a manner that will assure
  maximum support of the State's strategies for development of its rural areas. The
  application form as furnished by the Federal agency must be used for this
  program. An environmental assessment is required and an environmental impact
  statement may be required for this program. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  Form 4279-1 is used for guaranteed loans and filed at the Rural Development
  State Office. These programs are excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are forwarded to the Rural Development State Director for review
  and final approval.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 120 days.
Appeals:
  If an application is denied, the reasons for denial are fully stated. The lender or
  applicant may individually or jointly request mediation or an appeal hearing by
  the National Appeals Staff within 30 days provided the request is in writing.
  The requestor and State Director are notified of the decision by the Hearing
  Officer.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Matching funds are not required. For existing businesses, applicants are required
  to provide a minimum of 10 percent tangible balance sheet equity for guaranteed
  loans. For new businesses, at least 20 percent is required for guaranteed loans.
  Feasibility studies are normally required. Exceptions to the feasibility study
  requirement may be made to businesses with adequate financial history.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The letter of conditions for the direct loan and the Conditional Commitment for
  the guaranteed loan specifies the time limit for the use of funds. The Loan Note
  Guarantee for a guaranteed loan will be issued when all of the requirements of
  the Conditional Commitment have been or will be met.
Reports:
  Each guaranteed lender will be required to monitor and report to RBS on actual
  performance during the construction of each project financed, in whole or in
  part, with RBS assistance. When the project is in operation, field visits will be
  made and customary financial statements provided as determined by the
  guaranteed lender and RBS.
Audits:
  Independent accountant compiled or reviewed financial statements prepared in
  accordance with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles are required
  annually for guaranteed loans and for direct loans with a principal and interest
  balance of less than $ 1 million. RBS may require audited statements for
  guaranteed loans in excess of $3 million.
Records:
  Records and accounts must be maintained to reflect the operations of the project.
Account Identification:
  12-4155-0-3-452; 12-0400-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Guaranteed Loans) FY 07 $830,435,486; FY 08 $1,390,531,595; FY 09 est
  $993,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $35,000 to $17.5 million for guaranteed loans. $2.0 million (average size) for
  B&I guaranteed loans.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  There was 390 guarantees made in fiscal year 2007; 588 guarantees loans made
  in fiscal year 2008. In FY 2009 anticipated number of loans is 462.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Guaranteed Loans: 7 CFR Part 4279-A, Section 4279.1 through 4279.100, Part
  4279-B, Section 4279.101 through 4279.200, and Part 4287-B, Section
  4287.101 through 4279.200.
Regional or Local Office:
                                                                                    135
