  Consult your local telephone directory for appropriate Rural Development State      
  Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Administrator, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture,       
  Washington, DC 20250-3201. Telephone: (202) 690-4730. Fax: (202) 690-               
  4737.                                                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.766, Community Facilities Loans and Grants; 10.769, Rural Business               
  Enterprise Grants.                                                                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Loans made and guaranteed by RBS have been in order to assist a wide variety        
  of manufacturing, retail, wholesale, and service businesses. Some recent loans      
  and loan guarantees have assisted an agribusiness in expanding its service area,    
  helped a radio station begin operations, constructed and equipped an ethanol        
  plant, assisted a textile firm in modernizing and expanding its operations, and     
  provided working capital and financing for machinery and equipment for a            
  printing company.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  (1) Those projects that will save existing jobs, (2) improve existing business and  
  industry, (3) create the greatest number of permanent jobs, (4) contribute to the   
  overall economic stability of rural areas.                                          
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
10.769 RURAL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE GRANTS                                               
      (RBEG)                                                                          
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  AGRICULTURE                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended, Section 310B,              
  Public Law 92-419, 7 U.S.C. 1989, Public Law 101- 624, Public Law 102-142,          
  7 U.S.C. 1932.                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To facilitate the development of small and emerging private business, industry,     
  and related employment for improving the economy in rural communities.              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Rural business enterprise grant (RBEG) funds may be used to create, expand or       
  operate rural distance learning networks or programs that provide educational or    
  job training instruction related to potential employment or job advancement to      
  adult students; develop, construct or acquisition land, buildings, plants,          
  equipment, access streets and roads, parking areas, utility extensions, necessary   
  water supply and waste disposal facilities; refinancing; services and fees; and to  
  establish a revolving loan fund. Television demonstration grant (TDG) funds         
  may be used for television programming to demonstrate the effectiveness of          
  providing information on agriculture and other issues of importance to farmers      
  and other rural residents. All uses must assist a small and emerging private        
  business enterprise except for the TDG Program.                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Applicants eligible for RBE grants are public bodies and nonprofit corporations     
  serving rural areas such as States, counties, cities, townships, and incorporated   
  towns and villages, boroughs, authorities, districts and Indian tribes on Federal   
  and State reservations which will serve rural areas. Applicants eligible for TD     
  grants are statewide, private, nonprofit, public television systems whose           
  coverage is predominantly rural. Rural area for this program is defined as a city,  
  town, or unincorporated area that has a population of 50,000 inhabitants or less,   
  other than an urbanized area immediately adjacent to a city, town, or               
  unincorporated area that has a population in excess of 50,000 inhabitants.          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  A small and emerging private business enterprise which will employ 50 or less       
  new employees and has less than $1.0 million in projected gross revenue. Public     
                                                                                      
  bodies, private non- profit corporations, and Federally recognized Indian tribes

                                                                                      
  receive the grant to assist a business. Grants are not made directly to the

                                                                                      
  business.

                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                      
  Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility and financial responsibility

                                                                                      
  relative to the activity for which assistance is requested.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required

                                                                                      
  by OMB Circular Nos. A-110 and A-102 must be used for this program. An

                                                                                      
  environmental assessment is required for this program. This program is eligible

                                                                                      
  for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal

                                                                                      
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the

  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the

  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected 
  the program for review.                                                             
136                                                                             11-08

Application Procedure:
  Preapplication Form SF-424 is filed at the Rural Development local office. The
  standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required by
  OMB Circular Nos. A-110 and A-102 must be used for this program.
Award Procedure:
  After the preapplication has been reviewed by the RD local office, it is
  forwarded to the RD State Office for review and processing instructions.
  Following approval by the State Office, funds are made available to the local
  office for final delivery. Notification of awards must be made to the designated
  State Central Information Reception Agency.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  30 to 90 days.
Appeals:
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated. Applicant
  may request a review of this decision from the next higher management level of
  Rural Business-Cooperative Service.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Funds are allocated to States based on rural population and percent of
  nonmetropolitan per capita income. On occasion, the allocation to States may
  not be practical due to funding or administrative constraints. In these cases,
  funds will be controlled by the National Office.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  Periodic reports are made to RD.
Audits:
  Periodic audits should be made as part of the recipient's systems of financial
  management and internal control to meet terms and conditions of grants and
  other agreements. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-
  133, "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations", State,
  local governments or Nonprofit Organizations that expend Federal financial
  assistance of $500,000 or more within the fiscal year shall have an audit made
  for that year.
Records:
  The grantee shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant
  funds are used for authorized purposes.
Account Identification:
  12-0400-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $41,925,672; FY 08 $44,223,026; and FY 09 est 38,727,000. Program is
  still aniticpated to go to the Department of Commerce but is continued to be
  funded.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $25,000 to $500,000. Average: $96,668.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 572 grants were made. It is anticipated that in fiscal year
  2008, the level of activity will be approximately the same. The program is listed
  to go to Department of Commerce in fiscal year 2009.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 1942, Subpart G.
Regional or Local Office:
  Consult your telephone directory for RD local office number. If no listing, get in
  touch with appropriate Rural Development State Office listed in Appendix IV of
  the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Specialty Lenders Division, Rural Business-Cooperative Service,
  Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250-3222. Telephone: (202)
  720-1400. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.766, Community Facilities Loans and Grants; 10.768, Business and Industry
  Loans.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) a $25,000 grant was made for business development in an Empowerment
  Zone; (2) a $500,000 grant was made to establish a revolving loan fund; and (3)
  a $200,000 grant was made for construction of a manufacturing building.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Projects selected for funding should, as much as practical, adhere to the
  following priorities: (1) Projects which will be located in communities having a
  large portion of their population with low incomes; (2) projects which will save
  existing jobs; (3) projects which will create jobs; and (4) projects located in
  areas with high unemployment rate.
10.770 WATER AND WASTE DISPOSAL LOANS AND
GRANTS (SECTION 306C)
