  under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An                
  applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point of   
  contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State requires  
  to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program    
  for review.                                                                         
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The standard Federal application forms as furnished by the Federal Agency and       
  required by Office of Management and Budget Circular Nos. A-110 and A-102           
  must be used for this program. An original and a copy of all Federal forms and      
  application materials are to be filed with the appropriate Rural Development        
  National Office. Electronic data submissions are encouraged. The National           
  Office reviews the submittals to determine eligibility, then reviews, scores, and   
  ranks all eligible applications.                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  See annual solicitation to determine the maximum amount of Federal funds to be      
  awarded. Final processing and monitoring will be designated to the appropriate      
  State Rural Development Office. Payments will be made by electronic funds           
  transfer. In the event that the applicant is awarded a grant less than the amount   
  requested, the applicant will be required to modify its application.                
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Published in the Federal Register.                                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Sixty-to-120 days from the end of the application period as indicated in the        
  annual solicitation in the Federal Register.                                        
Appeals:                                                                              
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are fully stated. An       
  applicant may request that the Agency's decision be reviewed by the USDA            
  National Appeals Division.                                                          
Renewals:

  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  The total allocation is controlled by Congress. Applicants will be required to      
  contribute at least 25 percent of the total project cost in cash or in-kind

  contributions that must be from nonfederal funds except that a loan from another    
  federal source can be used. Applicants that are designated as 1994 Institutions''   
  as defined in section 532 of the Equity in Educational Land-Grant Status Act of     
  1994 (7 U.S.C. 301 note; Pub. L. 103-382) are required to provide nonfederal        
  financial support (matching funds) of at least 5 percent of the total project cost. 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The grant program is conducted on an annual basis. Awards are made for a 12-        
  month period. A Request for Advance or Reimbursement may be submitted               
  monthly, but quarterly reimbursements are typical. The grantee's share of the       
  costs will be disbursed in advance of grant funds or on a pro-rata distribution     
  basis with grant funds during the disbursement period. Some reimbursements          
  may be linked to submission of acceptable performance reports.                      
Reports:                                                                              
  Semiannual Financial Status Report, semiannual performance report, and a final      
  project performance report.                                                         
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted    
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                              
Records:                                                                              
  The grantee shall maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that grant       
  funds are used for authorized purposes.                                             
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-1900-0-1-452.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $3,586,838; FY 08 est $4,900,000; and FY 09 est not reported. Up to           
  $1.473 million may be used for applications that focus on assistance to small,      
  minority producers through their cooperative businesses.                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  In FY 2007, $3.5 million was awarded to 19 recipients, averaging $188,000 with      
  a range from $85,000 to $200,000.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The Rural Cooperative Development Grant program has established a number of         
  rural cooperative development centers across the Nation. Efforts from these         
  centers have improved the economic condition of rural areas through the             
  development of new cooperatives and improved operations of existing                 
  cooperatives. USDA continues to encourage and stimulate the development of          
  effective cooperative organizations in rural America as a part of its total package 
  of rural development efforts.                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  7 CFR 4284, Subparts A and F; 7 CFR 3015; 7 CFR 3019. Final rules                   
  published in the Federal Register on April 29, 2004, revised 7 CFR 4284             
  Subpart F. The amendments implemented for Subpart F within 7 CFR Part 4284,         


138                                                                             11-08

  conform to the regulations for the Rural Cooperative Development Grant
  program contained within the newly implemented subpart A that consolidates
  provisions common to all grant programs administered by Cooperative Services
  within Rural Business Cooperative Service (RBS).
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the appropriate Rural Development State Office listed in Appendix IV
  of the Catalog or through the RBS Web site.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Deputy Administrator, Cooperative Services, Rural Business-
  Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250.
  Telephone: (202) 720-8460. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Cooperative development centers use grant funds to provide technical assistance,
  applied research, technical training, and cooperative education to emerging or
  active rural cooperatives. Examples of recent cooperative activities include:
  director training, technical assistance in value-added processing and marketing,
  and developmental outreach.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Preference will be given to those applicants that demonstrate; a proven track
  record in cooperative development; in providing technical assistance in rural
  areas; ability to facilitate the establishment of cooperatives and new cooperative
  approaches; and Transferability of approach to rural areas outside of project
  area. Projects will be selected that contribute the most to the improvement of
  economic conditions of the rural area.
10.772 EMPOWERMENT ZONES PROGRAM
   (Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT, RURAL DEVELOPMENT,
  DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993, Title XIII, Public Law 103-66;
  Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, Public Law 105-34; Agriculture, Rural
  Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related Agencies
  Appropriations Act of 1999, Public Law 105-277; Public Law 106-554, The
  Community Renewal Tax Releif Act of 2000.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of this program is to provide for the establishment of empowerment
  zones and enterprise communities in rural areas to stimulate the creation of new
  jobs, particularly for the disadvantaged, long-term unemployed, and out
  migration, and to promote revitalization of economically distressed areas.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The USDA Empowerment Zone and Enterprise Community (EZ/EC) program is
  the first step in rebuilding communities in America's poverty-stricken rural
  communities. It is designed to empower people and communities all across this
  Nation by inspiring Americans to work together to improve living conditions in
  their communities, and create jobs and opportunity. Under this program the
  Federal government has designated 57 rural areas as EZs and ECs. These
  communities meet certain poverty and distress criteria and have prepared
  creative strategic plans for revitalization. For the purposes of this program,
  Round I refers to those EZs and ECs designated in 1994, Round II refers to those
  designated in 1998 and Round III refers to those EZs designated in 2002.
  Empowerment Zones are eligible for private activity tax exempt bonding
  authority for qualifying enterprises and facilities. Bond issues are subject to
  State private activity bond caps and special limits on issue size. Round I
  Empowerment Zones are eligible for employer wage credits, with a phase out
  beginning in year 2005. Empowerment Zones are eligible for accelerated Section
  179 expensing for eligible property. Certain environmental remediation
  expenditures for cleaning up sites in enterprise communities may be deducted in
  the year incurred by taxpayers, where those expenses would ordinarily be
  capitalized and depreciated over time. EZ/ECs are also eligible for qualified
  academy zone taxable bonding authority, where the holder receives a tax credit
  in an amount equal to a credit rate (set by the Treasury Department) multiplied
  by the face amount of the bond. Round II rural zones can each issue up to
  $60,000,000 in "new bonds" to Finance Zone facilities in addition to Round I
  type tax exempt bonds. The benefits described above may or may not be all-
  inclusive. EZ/EC communities benefit from additional legislated benefits in the
  future. They receive special consideration in competition for funding under
  numerous Federal programs, including the National Service and Community
  Policing initiatives. The Federal government will focus special attention on
  working cooperatively with designated enterprise communities to overcome
  regulatory impediments, to permit flexible use of existing Federal funds, and to
