  assist these communities in meeting essential mandates. Round II Empowerment      
  Zones have authority to issue private activity bonds for qualified enterprises and
  facilities, which are not subject to State private activity bond caps, and enjoy a
  greater allowance for section 179 expending. Round II Empowerment Zones do        
  not enjoy the employer wage credits mentioned above. All EC and EZ                
  employers, however, may use the Work Opportunity Tax Credit, as such credit       
  may be extended.                                                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  USDA is not currently authorized to grant new designations for the EZ/EC

  program. If Congress authorizes a new round of designations, eligibility criteria 
  based on the statutory requirements for the new round will be published in the

  Federal Register.                                                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  USDA is not currently authorized to grant new designations for the EZ/EC          
  program. If Congress authorizes a new round of designations, eligibility criteria 
  based on the statutory requirements for the new round will be published in the    
  Federal Register.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  A Notice Inviting Applications would be published in the Federal Register.        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  A Notice Inviting Applications, to be published in the Federal Register.          
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Round II Designations are published in the Federal Register and are effective as  
  of the date of publication.                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Published in the Federal Register.                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Guidelines would be published in the Federal Register.                            
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  None.                                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Period of designation: The designation of an area as an Empowerment Zone or       
  Enterprise Community shall remain in full effect during the period beginning on   
  the date of designation and ending on the earliest of: (1) the close of the tenth 
  calendar year beginning on or after the date of designation; (b) the termination  
  date designated by the State and local governments in their application for       
  nomination; or (c) the date the Secretary modifies or revokes the designation.    
Reports:                                                                            
  USDA requires semi-annual reports for the designated EZ/EC communities.           
  These reports will identify the community, local government and State actions     
  that have been taken in accordance with the strategic plan. In addition to these  
  reports, such other information relating to designated empowerment zones and      
  enterprise communities as USDA shall request from time to time shall be           
  submitted promptly. On the basis of this information and of on-site reviews,      
  USDA will prepare and issue periodic EZ/EC reports.                               
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133 "Audits of States, Local                
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations" as codified by USDA or 7 CFR            
  Chapter XXX, Part 3052, nonfederal entities that expend $500,000 or more in a     
  year in Federal awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted    
  for that year.                                                                    
Records:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Account Identification:                                                             
  12-2065-0-1-452.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 $11,697,938; FY 08 est $10,724,000; and FY 09 est not reported.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  From $500,000 to $40 million over a ten year period.                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Leveraging ratio is 17:1.                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  7 CFR Part 25 Designation of Empowerment Zones and Enterprise                     
  Communities. Program regulations may be found in 7 CFR Part 25 Designation        
  of Empowerment Zones and Enterprise Communities.                                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Consult your local telephone directory for the USDA Rural Development Area        
  Office number. If none are listed contact the appropriate Rural Development       
  State Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  USDA, Office of Community Development, 300 7th Street S.W., Reporters             
  Building, Room 266, Washington, DC, 20024, Attn: David Sears, Acting              
  Director. Telephone: (202) 619-7980. Internet website: www.ezec.gov.              
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                       
                                                                               11-08
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.244, Empowerment Zones Program; 93.667, Social Services Block Grant.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Descriptions of designated communities and information on activities in the
  strategic plans are available on the internet website above, or upon request, from
  the Headquarters Office.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Published in the Federal Register.
10.773 RURAL BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY GRANTS
   (RBOG)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, Section 741, Public
  Law 104-127.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote sustainable economic development in rural communities with
  exceptional needs.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds may be used to assist in the economic development of rural areas by
  providing technical assistance, training, and planning for business and economic
  development.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Grants may be made to public bodies, nonprofit corporations, Indian tribes on
  Federal or State reservations or other Federally recognized tribal groups, and
  cooperatives with members that are primarily rural residents and that conduct
  activities for the mutual benefit of the members.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Rural communities and businesses in rural areas.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence of legal capacity. Evidence of financial strength and expertise in
  activities such as proposed in the application, sufficient to ensure
  accomplishment of the activities and objectives described in the application.
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is subject to coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in the State for more information on the
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review. This program is subject to environmental
  review requirements; however, most applications are expected to qualify as
  general exclusions.
Application Procedure:
  Potential applicants should file Standard Form 424.1, "Application for Federal
  Assistance (For Nonconstruction)," and additional material required by Agency
  regulations with the USDA Rural Development State Office. The application
  will include a written narrative and scope of work. More details are available
  from the Headquarters Office or any Rural Development State Office.
Award Procedure:
  Applications will be given a priority score in accordance with the criteria set out
  in the program regulations.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  30 days to 1 year.
Appeals:
  Adverse decision may be appealed in accordance with procedures set out at 7
  CFR 11.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements, although
  availability of matching funds is considered in determining priority.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funding for complete projects is limited to projects that can be completed within
  2 years. Projects of longer duration may only be funded for 1 year at a time.
Reports:
  Grantees must provide a financial report and performance activity report
  quarterly while the project is in process, and a project evaluation report within 1
  year after the project is completed.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
                                                                                    139
