  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal            
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted      
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                                
Records:                                                                                
  Records and accounts must be maintained to reflect the operations of the project.     
Account Identification:                                                                 
  12-0400-0-1-452.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $6,939,689; FY 08 $2,634,610; and FY 09 est $2,634,600.                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $12,000 to $344,750. Average: $78,846.                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In fiscal year 2007, 107 grants were made. In FY 2008 the number of grants            
  were 38. It is anticipated that in FY 2009, approximately the same number will        
  be funded.                                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Implementing regulations were published in the Federal Register (64 FR 71984)         
  on December 23, 1999. The CFR citation is 7 CFR 4284, Subpart G.                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Contact the appropriate Rural Development State Office listed in Appendix IV          
  of the Catalog.                                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Rural Business-Cooperative Service, USDA, Specialty Lenders Division, STOP            
  3225, Room 6767, 1400 Independence Ave., S.W., Washington, DC 20250-                  
  1521. Telephone: (202) 720-1400.                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  10.769, Rural Business Enterprise Grants.                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  (1) a $50,000 grant was made to help fund a business incubator; (2) a $33,500

                                                                                        
  grant was made to a Native American tribe for technical assistance in                 
  implementing a business plan; (3) a $344,500 grant was made to provide                
  technical assistance in an Enterprise Community.                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Grant selection criteria include the extent to which economic development             
  resulting from the proposed project will be sustainable over the long term; the       
  extent to which the project should lead to improvements in the quality of             
  economic activity within the community, such as higher wages, improved                
  benefits, greater career potential, and the use of higher level skills; the amount of 
  leveraging of funds from other sources; service to communities that are               
  experiencing trauma due to a major natural disaster or the closing or major           
  downsizing of a military facility or other major employer; service to                 
  communities that have remained consistently poor over the long term or have           
  experienced long term population decline or job deterioration; and the extent of      
  the project's usefulness as a best practice that may serve as a model for other       
  communities.                                                                          
                                                                                        
10.774 NATIONAL SHEEP INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT                                              
                                                                                        
CENTER

                                                                                        
      (RURAL DEVELOPMENT)                                                               
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATIONAL SHEEP INDUSTRY IMPROVEMENT CENTER, DEPARTMENT                                
  OF AGRICULTURE                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, Public Law 104-127.           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To assist the U.S. sheep and goat industries by strengthening and enhancing the       
  production and marketing of sheep and goats and their products in the United          
  States.                                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Direct Loans; Guaranteed/Insured Loans; Direct Payments for Specified Use;            
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  (1) Making capital available for increasing production or improving production        
  efficiency; (2) improving marketing efficiency or product quality; (3) promoting      
  coordination in marketing systems and between industry participants; (4)              
  communicating to meet the information needs of the industry and to inform the         
  public and industry of the Center's activities; and (5) taking actions that will      
  maintain the viability of the Center.                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  Eligible entities include public, private, or cooperative organizations,              
  associations, including corporations not operated for profit, Federally-recognized    
  Indian Tribes or public or quasi-public agencies. An individual is not                
  considered an eligible entity. Fifty-one percent of the entity must be owned by       
  citizens of the United States or reside in the United States after being legally      
  admitted for permanent residence.                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                


140                                                                               11-08

  Eligible entities include public, private, or cooperative organizations,
  association, including corporations not operated for profit, Federally-recognized
  Indian Tribes or public or quasi-public agencies. An individual is not
  considered an eligible entity. Fifty-one percent of the entity must be owned by
  citizens of the United States or reside in the United States after being legally
  admitted for permanent residence.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must demonstrate that a competent management team is in place,
  clearly defining each management team member's role, responsibilities and
  credentials. Applicants must demonstrate that the management team has the
  technical, marketing and financial expertise to manage all aspects of the
  proposed project or program.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Eligible applicants should submit proposed projects on the "Proposal
  Application, National Sheep Industry Improvement Center" form (under review,
  available in 2000). This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Proposal Application, NSIIC, may be submitted at any time to: NSIIC, PO Box
  23483, Washington, DC 20026-3483 (Physical location: NSIIC, 1400
  Independence Ave., S.W., (Room 2117), Washington DC. 20250). Funding and
  policy decisions are made by the NSIIC Board of Directors. Board of Director
  application review sessions are held following the end of each calendar quarter
  (March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31). Applications must be
  received on or before the end of each calendar quarter to be considered.
  Applications not received within the allotted time period will be considered in
  the next review session.
Award Procedure:
  The "Proposal Application" is used by the NSIIC Board of Directors to negotiate
  agreements and complete additional forms. Funding is made through rural
  development.
Deadlines:
  March 31, June 30, September 30, and December 31.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Several months, including approval by the NSIIC Board of Directors.
Appeals:
  Applications submitted, but not funded at a regular Board of Directors review
  session, may be resubmitted. Applications not funded or carried forward will
  include a summary stating the reasons.
Renewals:
  In general, funding by the NSIIC is intended to be a one-time affair. The
  financial status of the company and the requested amount of funding are
  analyzed carefully at the time the decision is made to fund the project. If the
  Board determines the amount of funding to be inappropriate, the figures are
  adjusted during the final negotiations with the applicants. Thus, the applying
  entity, is then in a position to meet the terms of the agreement.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  NSIIC will: (1) Not exceed 50 percent of the project cost on equity investments
  included in Direct Payments for Specified Use; (2) not exceed $1 million for a
  direct loan; and (3) require that loan guarantees: (a) have an eligible lender, as
  defined in the NSIIC Strategic Plan; (b) not exceed $ 1 million; (c) not exceed
  80 percent of the guaranteed loan; and (d) be assessed a 1 percent per annum
  guarantee fee by NSIIC.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Terms are negotiable between applicants and the NSIIC Board of Directors. The
  term of a loan may not exceed the shorter of: (i) The useful life of the activity
  financed; or (ii) 40 years.
Reports:
  Periodic reports showing the progress of the project are required from eligible
  entities that receive NSIIC funds. The frequency and the detail required in these
  reports are proportionate to the risk and amount of money invested in the
  project.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Successful applicant receiving funds from NSIIC shall maintain adequate
  records and accounts using generally accepted accounting principles to assure
  that the funds are used for authorized purposes.
Account Identification:
  12-1906-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  Not separately identifiable. (NOTE: NSIIC is a revolving fund with a $26
  Million appropriation from Congress (ultimately to be $50 Million appropriated
  at which time the fund will privatized) without fiscal year limitations. Equity
  Investments will be awarded.)
