Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Negotiated with the Board of Directors under the limitations set forth in the       
  annual NSIIC Strategic Plan. Each program or project loan may not exceed $1         
  million.                                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Not available.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Strategic Plan, Proposal Application.                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  NSIIC, 1400 Independence Ave., S.W. room 2117 Washington DC. 20250.                 
  Physical location: 1400 Independence Ave., S.W., room 2117 Washington DC.           
  20250. Telephone: (202) 690-0632. Fax: (207) 236-6576.                              
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rbs/coops/cssheep.htm.                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The Board of Directors will consider the impact the project will have on the        
  sheep or goat industries by evaluating the financial feasibility, business system,  
  management team, potential impact, and summary of overall strengths and             
  weaknesses of the proposed project.                                                 
                                                                                      
10.775 RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEMS AND ENERGY                                            
EFFICIENCY IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM                                                       
                                                                                      
   (RES and EEI)                                                                      
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  AGRICULTURE                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Pursuant to enactment of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002,        
  Title IX, Section 9006.                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To create a program to make direct loans, loan guarantees, and grants to            
  agricultural producers (farmers and ranchers) and rural small businesses to help    
  reduce energy costs and consumption and help meet the nation's critical energy      
  needs.                                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Loans; Loan Guarantees/Grants.                                               
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The amount of a grant shall not exceed 25 percent of the cost of the eligible       
  project costs. The maximum amount of combined grant and loan made or                
  guaranteed shall not exceed 50 percent of the eligible project costs. The funds     
  must be used for purchase of renewable energy systems or energy efficiency          
  improvements.                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  An eligible applicant must be an agricultural producer or rural small business.     
  Individual applicants must be citizens of the United States (U.S.) or reside in the 
  U.S. after being legally admitted for permanent residence. The applicant or         
  owner must not have an outstanding judgment, delinquent on any Federal debt         
  or debarred from receiving Federal assistance.                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Farmers, ranchers and rural small businesses.                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  An Agricultural Producer (farmer or rancher) must be directly engaged in the        
  production of agricultural products, including crops; livestock; forestry           
  products; hydroponics; nursery stock; or aquaculture, whereby 50 percent or         
  greater of their gross income is derived from the operations. A small business      
  must meet the Small Business Administration's Business Size Standards by            
  North American Industry Classification System; including all parent, affiliate, or  
  subsidiary entities at other locations.                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The applicant must submit a complete application to the Rural Energy                
  Coordinator in their respective State. A complete application includes standards    
  forms 424, 424C and 424D plus Rural Development forms, feasibility studies,         
  energy audits, environmental assessment (form RD 1940-20), and written              
  technical requirements. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.           
  12372.                                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  State Rural Development Office personnel will review all applications.              
  Ineligible and incomplete applications may be returned to the applicant and not     
  evaluated further. projects not financially or technically feasible will not be     
  considered for funding. Qualified industry experts will review the technical        


                                                                                 11-08
  requirements of the applications. The State Rural Development Office will score
  the application based on the Evaluation Criteria and submit it to the National
  Office to be reviewed and ranked. The National Office will rank applications
  based on its total score. The highest scoring applications will be selected until
  all the funds are depleted. Recommendations for funding will be forwarded to
  the Administrator of RBS, who will award the grants.
Deadlines:
  The Grant applications have two deadlines: Application must be postmarked no
  later than April 15, 2008 and June 16, 2008. The Combination loan and grant
  applications will be accepted and processed until June 16, 2008. Combination
  packages will be evaluated on a bi-weekly basis. Guaranteed loan applications
  will be accepted and processed until June 16, 2008, in a rolling application
  manner.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 180 days after the application is filed with RBS.
Appeals:
  Adverse actions made on applications are applicable. pursuant to 7 CFR part 11.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The applicant must provide at least 75 percent of leveraged funds if the request
  is for grant funds. For a combination grant, loan and loan guarantee, the
  applicant must provide at least 50 percent of leveraged funds. In-kind
  contributions and other Federal grants may not be used to meet the 75 percent
  requirement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grant funds will be provided on a reimbursement basis unless the funding
  partners require the funds to be disbursed on a pro rata basis.
Reports:
  A financial status report and a project performance report will be required on a
  quarterly basis (due 30 working days after end of the quarter). Grantees shall
  constantly monitor performance to ensure that time schedules are being met and
  projected goals by time periods are being accomplished.
Audits:
  Accounting records prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting
  principles (GAAP) and supported by source documentation.
Records:
  Applicant will provide a financial management system in accordance with 7
  CFR Part 3015. The applicant will also retain financial records, supporting
  documents, statistical records, and other records pertinent to the award for a
  period of at least three years after final disbursement, except that the records
  shall be retained beyond the three-year period if audit findings have not been
  resolved.
Account Identification:
  Not available at this time.
Obligations:
  (Loans) FY 07 $55,846,437; FY 08 est $204,953,560; and FY 09 est not
  reported. (Grants) FY 07 $20,553,428; FY 08 est $15,888,000; and FY 09 est
  not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range $2,500 to $500,000; Average $125,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, 562 projects were funded. Based on funding levels, we
  anticipate approximately the same number of projects will be funded in fiscal
  year 2008. The Agency anticipates the program to be at or above the same
  funding level for fiscal year 2009, funding activity is anticipated to be 600.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Notice of Funds Availability was published in the Federal Register for this fiscal
  year's funding. Regulations will be developed and published in the Federal
  Register this fiscal year.
Regional or Local Office:
  The NOFA that was published in the Federal Register on March 6, 2008,
  provides the names, addresses and phone numbers of the contacts for each State.
Headquarters Office:
  Rural Business-Cooperative Services, Department of Agriculture, 1400
  Independence Avenue SW., Washington, DC 20013. Telephone: (202) 720-
  1400. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rbs/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) a $20,000 grant for the purchase and installation of a small solar system. (2)
  a $224,000 grant for the purchase of a large wind turbine. (3) a $50,000 grant to
  make energy efficiency improvements to an existing facility. (4) a $171,386
  grant for an anaerobic digester. (5) a $10 million guaranteed loan for the
  purchase and installation of a biomass electric generation facility.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  State Rural Development Office personnel will review all applications and score
  it on bases of the Evaluation Criteria and submit it to the National Office to be
                                                                                  141
