  reviewed and ranked. the National Office will rank applications based on its         
  total score. The highest scoring applications will be selected until all the funds   
  are depleted. Recommendations for funding will be forwarded to the                   
  Administrator of RBS, who will award the grants.                                     
                                                                                       
10.778 RESEARCH ON THE ECONOMIC IMPACT OF                                              
                                                                                       
COOPERATIVES                                                                           
      (REIC)                                                                           
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  RURAL BUSINESS-COOPERATIVE SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                    
  AGRICULTURE                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related            
  Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006, Title III, Public Law 109-97, as amended,         
  Department of Defense Appropriations Act, 2006, Division B, Title III, Chapter       
  8, Section 3801, Public Law 109-148.                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The encouragement of research on the national economic impact or value of all        
  types of cooperatives in the United States.                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Payments for Specified Use (Cooperative Agreements).                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  An REIC cooperative agreement is to be used to conduct research on the               
  national economic impact of all types of cooperative organizations. The              
  research is to include development of methodology and collection and analysis        
  of data as well as describing the economic impacts. Indirect costs are restricted    
  to no more than 10 percent of the direct cost. Direct costs are not to include       
  construction or fixed assets.                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Institutions of Higher Education, including consortia of academic institutions,      
  research foundations maintained by a college or university, or private nonprofit     
  organizations funded by a group of colleges or universities, are eligible to apply.  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Public or private colleges or universities.                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicants must provide a budget supporting the work plan that details all           
  sources and uses of funds during the project period. Applicants are required to      
  verify matching funds, both cash and in-kind such that USDA can verify all           
  representations.                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                             
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  USDA will solicit applications on a competitive basis by publication of a notice     
                                                                                       
  in the Federal Register and through the www.grants.gov Federal Web site.

                                                                                       
  Unless otherwise specified, applicants must file an original and two copies of the

                                                                                       
  proposal and all required forms or as otherwise instructed in the annual

  announcement. An applicant must submit Form SF-424, Form SF-424A, Form

  SF-424B, and other information as directed. Each proposal must contain the           
  following elements and any additional elements published in the announcement:        
  (1) Title Page; (2) Table of Contents; (3) Executive Summary; (4) Eligibility

  Discussion; (5) Proposal Narrative including, but not limited to: (i) Project Title; 
  (ii) Information Sheet; (iii) Goals of the Project; (iv) Work Plan; (v) Proposal

  Evaluation Criteria; (6) Certification of Judgment; and (7) Verification of          
  Matching Funds.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Qualified academic institutions must submit their application to the Rural           
  Development-Cooperative Programs National Office where it will be reviewed           
  and scored on a competitive basis as described in the annual solicitation for        
  proposals. If selected for an award, the applicant must complete the objectives      
  as defined in the approved proposal.                                                 
                                                                                       
Deadlines:

                                                                                       
  Contact the headquarter office for application deadlines.

                                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  From 30 to 60 days after the application is filed with the Rural Development-        
  Cooperative Programs.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                               
  Applicants may appeal any adverse decisions to USDA's National Appeals               
  Division.                                                                            
                                                                                       
Renewals:

  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no statutory formula.                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The cooperative agreement funds will be dispersed quarterly on a reimbursement       
  basis over a period of up to two years.                                              
Reports:                                                                               
  Progress reports must be submitted to the Rural Development-Cooperative              
  Programs National Office within 30 days of the end of each calendar quarter. A       


142                                                                              11-08

  final report must be submitted to the Rural Development-Cooperative Programs
  National Office within 90 days after the project is completed. Form SF-269 or
  SF-269A, "Financial Status Report" must be submitted Quarterly. Form SF-270
  "Request for Advance or Reimbursement" may be submitted when required, but
  no more often than monthly.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of States,
  Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, non-Federal entities that
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Non-Federal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular A-133.
Records:
  The recipient will maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that
  agreement funds are used for authorized purposes. Records will also be
  maintained by the Rural Development-Cooperative Programs National Office
  and Rural Development Budget Office according to USDA and Agency record-
  keeping requirements.
Account Identification:
  12-1900-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $500,000; FY 08 est $491,535; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  One agreement in the amount of $491,535 is anticipated.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  This program was new in FY 2006. In previous years 3 to 5 applications were
  received and it is anticipated that the same number will be received and 1 award
  will be made in fiscal year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 3015; 7 CFR 3019. Please see all details in the program notice of request
  for proposals in the Federal Register. Application guidelines are on the website
  listed below and through www.grants.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  USDA-Rural Development's Cooperative Programs, 1400 Independence Ave.,
  S.W., Stop 3252, Washington, DC 20250-3252 Telephone: (202) 690-0368,
  Fax: (202) 690-2723 E-mail: cpgrants@wdc.usda.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rbs/coops/reic.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None available at this time.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All eligible and complete applications will be evaluated by a review panel based
  on the criteria published in the Federal Register. The top ranked proposal will
  be funded.
10.850 RURAL ELECTRIFICATION LOANS AND LOAN
GUARANTEES
   (RUS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, 7 U.S.C. 901-950.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assure that people in eligible rural areas have access to electric services
  comparable in reliability and quality to the rest of the Nation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Long-term, direct loans and loan guarantees to qualified organizations for the
  purpose of supplying or improving inadequate or unreliable electric services on a
  continuing basis in rural areas.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Rural electric cooperatives, public utility districts, power companies,
  municipalities, and other qualified power suppliers including those located in the
  U.S. Territories.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Persons in rural areas who do not have electric service, have inadequate or
  unreliable electric service, or those currently served through RUS financing.
  Rural areas are defined in the Rural Electrification Act as any area of the United
  States not included within the boundaries of any urban area as defined by the
  Bureau of the Census. Such term shall be deemed to include both the farm and
  nonfarm populations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87,
