  "Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments."                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Applicants must supply environmental impact information to determine whether       
  an environmental impact assessment or an environmental impact statement will       
  be required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and           
  OMB Circular No. A-102, "Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and          
  Local Governments."

Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applications for direct loan and loan guarantees are made by resolution of the

  board of directors of the borrowing organization. Information on submitting

                                                                                     
  applications is contained in 7 CFR Part 1710 and 1714. This program is             
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110, "Uniform

  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutes of           
  Higher Education, Hospitals and other Nonprofit Organizations."                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Depending on the amount of the application, the RUS Administrator, Assistant       
  Administrator, or appropriate Regional Director makes the final decision on        
  approval of the loan upon a finding that it is economically feasible and serves    
  the purposes of the Rural Electrification Act. Borrowers and Members of            
  Congress are notified of the approval of a loan or loan guarantee directly, and    
  the public is notified through normal media communications.                        
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Direct loans are approved generally on an average of 3 to 6 months as funding      
  becomes available. Loan guarantees are approved generally on an average of 9 to    
  12 months.                                                                         
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Under certain conditions, obtaining a municipal rate will require obtaining a      
  concurrent loan (of 10, 20, or 30 percent of the total amount required) from a     
  supplemental financing source. The factors used for determining the amount of      
  concurrent financing required are set forth in 7 CFR 1710.110.                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Direct loans are generally made for a period up to 35 years, that approximates     
  the expected useful life of the facilities financed. Provision is normally made for
  advances to be completed within 4 years, but this period is subject to extension   
  if required. Advances of funds are made as required by the borrower. The terms     
  and conditions of loan guarantees are negotiated between the borrower and the      
  non-RUS lender, subject to RUS approval.                                           
Reports:                                                                             
  RUS borrowers must submit to the Rural Utilities Service regularly scheduled       
  operating reports showing financial condition and operating progress.              
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. All other RUS borrowers have their books audited annually by a Certified     
  Public Accountant. Information on audits of RUS borrowers is contained in 7        
  CFR Part 1773.                                                                     
Records:                                                                             
  RUS borrowers keep the records prescribed for utility companies by the RUS         
  uniform system of accounts, and by sound business practices.                       
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-1230-0-1-271; 12-4230-0-3-271.                                                  
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Direct Loans) FY 07 $2,542,001,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est        
  not reported.(Guaranteed FFB) FY 07 $3,600,000,000; FY 08 est not available;       
  and FY 09 est not reported.                                                        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Direct Loans: $772,000 to $1,000,000,000 $23,664,000 Average. Guaranteed           
  FFB: $334,600 to $82,448,000 $12,924,000 average.                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Not available.                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  7 CFR XVII. RUS publishes and issues upon request bulletins bearing on the         
  financing, construction, operation, and maintenance of rural electric systems.     
  Also available are annual statistical summaries; and the Rural Electrification Act 
  of 1936, as amended.                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Administrator, Rural Utilities Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington,     
  DC 20250-1500. Telephone: (202) 720-9540. Use the same number for FTS.             
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                        


                                                                                11-08
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.854, Rural Economic Development Loans and Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
10.851 RURAL TELEPHONE LOANS AND LOAN
GUARANTEES
   (Rural Telephone Loans and Loan Guarantees)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, Titles II and III, 7 U.S.C. 921,
  922-924, and 930-940.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assure that people in eligible rural areas have access to telecommunications
  services comparable in reliability and quality to the rest of the Nation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Loans; Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Long-term direct and guaranteed loans to qualified organizations for the purpose
  of financing the improvement, expansion, construction, acquisition, and
  operation of telephone lines, facilities, or systems to furnish and improve
  Telecommunications service in rural areas. "Rural area" is defined as any area of
  the United States, its territories and insular possessions (including any areas
  within the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall Islands,
  and the Republic of Palau) not included within the boundaries of any
  incorporated or unincorporated city, village, or borough having a population
  exceeding 5,000 inhabitants. The population figure is obtained from the Bureau
  of Census. For purposes of the "rural area" definition, the character of an area is
  determined at the time the initial loan for the system is made.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Telephone companies or cooperatives, nonprofit associations, limited dividend
  associations, mutual associations or public bodies including those located in the
  U.S. Territories and countries included in the Compact of Free Association Act
  of 1985, providing or proposing to provide telecommunications service to meet
  the needs of rural areas.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Residents of rural areas, and others who may also receive telephone service as a
  result of service provided to a rural area.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Applicants must supply environmental impact information to determine whether
  an environmental impact assessment or an environmental impact statement will
  be required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and
  OMB Circular No. A-102.
Application Procedure:
  The completed loan application consists of four parts: an RUS Form 490;
  Application for Telephone Loan or Loan Guarantee; a market survey called Area
  Coverage Survey (ACS); the plan and associated costs for the proposed
  construction called the Loan Design (LD); and other various supplementary
  information specified in 7 CFR 1737.22. Detailed information on applying for
  an RUS telephone loan or loan guarantee is in 7 CFR Part 1737, available from
  RUS upon request. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  Depending on the amount of the application, and loan committee(s)
  recommendation, the RUS Administrator, Assistant Administrator, or
  appropriate Area Director makes the final decision on approval of the loan or
  loan guarantee upon a finding that it is economically feasible and serves the
  purposes of the Rural Electrification Act. Borrowers and Members of Congress
  are notified of the approval of a loan or loan guarantee directly, and the public is
  notified through normal media communications.
Deadlines:
  Applications are processed on a first-come, first-serve basis through out the
  fiscal year ending September 30.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Normal loan processing time is from 2 to 3 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The statistical factor used for eligibility is any area of the United States; its
  territories or possessions, not within the boundaries of any city, village or
  borough having a population over 5,000 (farm and nonfarm). The source is the
                                                                                     143
