  104-127, 7 U.S.C 950.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To encourage and improve the use of telemedicine, telecommunications,                 
  computer networks, and related advanced technologies to provide educational           
  and medical benefits through distance learning and telemedicine projects to           
  people living in rural areas and to improve rural opportunities.                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants; Direct Loans.                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Telecommunications, computer networks and related advanced technologies that          
  provide educational and/or medical benefits to students, teachers, medical            
  professionals and rural residents. Eligible costs depend on the type of financial     
  assistance being requested; i.e., grant or loan. See 7 CFR Part 1703 for details.     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  To be eligible to receive a grant, loan and grant combination, or loan, the           
  applicant must be legally organized as an incorporated organization or                
  partnership, an Indian tribe or tribal organization, a state or local unit of         
  government, a consortium, or other legal entity. The applicant must have legal        
  capacity to contract with RUS. The applicant also must propose to utilize the         
  financing to: (i) operate a rural community facility; or (ii) deliver distance        
  learning or telemedicine services to entities that operate a rural community          
  facility or to residents of rural areas at rates calculated to ensure that the benefit
  of the financial assistance is passed through to such entities or to residents of     
  rural areas. The applicant must not be delinquent on any Federal debt. RUS            
  electric and telecommunications borrowers are not eligible for grants. Generally,     
  applicants are organizations such as schools, libraries, hospitals, medical           
  centers, or other eligible organizations that will be users of a                      
  telecommunications, computer network, or related advanced technology system           
  to provide educational and/or medical benefits to rural residents.                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  The people living in rural areas and to improve rural opportunities, particularly     
  in the areas of education, training and medical services.                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                              
  See 7 CFR Part 1703 for details.                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental            
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official       
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information    
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the   
  State has selected the program for review. This program is subject to the             
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 (7 CFR 3015). This program is not

  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-102.                                  
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Submit application Form 424; non-delinquent on any Federal obligations;

  consultation with USDA State Director (for grant applicants); evidence of legal       
  existence and authority to perform the proposed grant activities; a

  comprehensive rural telecommunications plan; scope of work plan, executive            
  summary for the project: financial information; a statement of experience;            
  funding commitment from other sources; compliance with Federal statutes and           
  regulations (compliance with scoring criteria) and environmental impact;              
  supplemental information and required additional RUS information.                     
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  Based on a determination that the loan is economically feasible and serves the        
  purposes of the Rural Electrification Act, loans are approved. For grants, RUS        
  rates the applicants based on specified scoring criteria and determines awards        
  based on those ratings.                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                              
  See the federal register notice for grant application deadline. Loan applications     
  may be submitted anytime and loans are approved throughout the year.                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Applications are approved each fiscal year for which funding is made available.       
  Applications that have not been approved may be resubmitted each year for             
  consideration.                                                                        
Appeals:                                                                                
  A grant applicant may appeal the numerical scoring to the Secretary in writing        
  within 10 days after applicant is notified of the scoring level.                      
Renewals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This program has no formula requirements. A 15 percent matching contribution          
  will be required from the applicant. No matching is required for applicants           
  requesting loans.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Funds may be advanced monthly or as needed to reimburse disbursements for             
  approved grant purposes. Applicants generally have three years to spend funds.        
  Extensions may be granted.                                                            
Reports:                                                                                
  SF 269, "Financial Status Report," and project performance activity report            
  required annually.                                                                    
Audits:                                                                                 


                                                                                   11-08
  For a grant recipient, an audit report is required for the years in which funds are
  received. For a loan recipient, an audit report is required annually until all RUS
  loans have been repaid.
Records:
  Grantee will provide evidence that funds are expended for approved purposes.
Account Identification:
  12-1232-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $15,000,000; FY 08 est $24,750,000; and FY 09 est not
  reported. (Loans) FY 07 $127,914,000; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The minimum grant is $50,000. The maximum varies and is not to exceed the
  amount established by the RUS Administrator.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 1703, subparts D through G. Distance Learning and Telemedicine
  Program Grant Application Guide - Fiscal Year 2007 Distance Learning and
  Telemedicine Program Loan and Combination Loan-Grant Application Guide -
  Fiscal Year 2007.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Administrator, Telecommunications Program, Rural Utilities Service,
  Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W., STOP 1590,
  Room 5151, Washington, DC 20250 1590. Telephone: (202) 720 9554, Fax:
  (202) 720 0810.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usda.gov/rus/telecom/dlt/dlt.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Depending on the type of financial assistance: interactive rural education
  networks, remote health care units linkups, computer terminals that are required
  for a distance learning or telemedicine system, video and audio equipment, site
  development and alteration of buildings, telecommunications transmission
  facilities, and other telemedicine or distance learning projects.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See 7 CFR Part 1703, subparts D through G.
10.856 1890 LAND GRANT INSTITUTIONS RURAL
ENTREPRENEURIAL OUTREACH PROGRAM
   (1890 REOD Initiative)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUSINESS AND COOPERATIVE PROGRAMS, RURAL DEVELOPMENT,
  DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  7 U.S.C. 2204b(b)(4) and Executive Order 13256 (February 12, 2002),
  President's Board of Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage 1890 Institutions to provide technical assistance for business
  creation in economically challenged rural communities, to conduct educational
  programs that develop and improve upon the professional skills of rural
  entrepreneurs, and to provide outreach and promote USDA Rural Development
  programs in small rural communities with the greatest economic need.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Rural Development cooperative agreements with the 1890 Institutions must be
  used to strengthen the capacity of rural communities to undertake innovative,
  comprehensive, citizen led, long-term strategies for community and economic
  development. Only one application or proposal per 1890 institution per year will
  be accepted. Recognized outreach efforts to promote Rural Development
  programs in targeted underserved rural communities include, but are not limited
  to: (a) business startup and related technical assistance; seminars and
  workshops for small businesses; (b) development of management and technical
  assistance plans that: (1) assess small business alternatives to traditional
  agriculture; (2) assist in the development of business plans or loan packages,
  marketing, or bookkeeping; (3) assist and train small businesses in customer
  relations, product development, or business planning and development; (c)
  feasibility studies; (d) advice and recommendations regarding best practices in
  community economic development; (e) the conduct of seminars to stimulate
  business and economic development; and (f) developing computer technology
  outreach and establishing and maintaining a computer network system, linking
  community leaders and residents to available economic development
  information. Rural Development funds may be used to pay up to 75 percent of
  the costs for carrying out relevant projects. Applicants' contributions (matching
                                                                                        145
