  25 percent) may be in cash or in-kind contributions but must be from non-          
  Federal funds. The applicant and assigned personnel must also have expertise       
  and experience in providing the recommended assistance. Applicants should          
  also have a previous record of successful implementation of similar projects and   
  must have the expertise in the use of electronic network technologies and/or a     
  business information system network website.                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  1890 Land Grant Institutions and Tuskegee University (1890 Institutions).          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  The 1890 REOD Initiative is limited to residents located in a rural area as        
  defined in 7 U.S.C. 1991(a)(13) with economic need. Location in an                 
  Empowerment Zone, Enterprise Community, Champion Community, Federally-             
  recognized Tribal Indian groups or other Federally declared economic depressed     
  or disaster area is sufficient evidence of economic need. Eligible beneficiaries   
  must also be located in communities that show significant community support        
  for the proposal. Preference will be given for projects that operate in a multi-   
  county service area. See annual notice of funding availability for details.        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Eligible applicants are 1890 Land Grant Institutions and Tuskegee University.      
  Eligible applicants must provide matching funds equal to at least 25 percent of    
  the amount provided by Rural Development in the cooperative agreement. See         
  annual notice of funding availability for details.                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Applicants are encouraged to submit applications electronically through            
  Grants.gov. Applicants must follow the instructions given at                       
  "http://www.grants.gov" website. Applicants are advised to visit the site well in  
  advance of the application deadline if they plan to apply electronically to insure 
  that they have obtained the proper authentication and have sufficient computer     
  resources to complete the application. To obtain paper application instructions    
  and all required forms, contact Rural Development--Cooperative Programs,           
  USDA. The application forms and instructions may be requested via e-mail           
  (edgar.lewis@wdc.usda.gov) and are also located on the Business and                
  Cooperative Programs website noted later in this announcement. This program is     
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal       
  Programs.                                                                          
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Submit (1) Form SF-424, Application for Federal Assistance; (2) Form SF-           
  424A, Budget Information--Non-Construction Programs; (3) Form SF-424B,             
  Assurances--Non-construction Programs; (4) Form AD-1047, Certification             
  Regarding Debarment, Suspension and other Responsibility Matters; (5) Form         
  AD-1049, Certification Regarding Drug Free Workplace Requirements (6) Form         
  SF-LLL, Disclosure of Lobbying Activities; and, (7) other information as           
  requested by the annual Request For Proposals. See annual solicitation in the      
  Federal Register for specific procedures.                                          
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  The 1890s Institutions must submit their application to the Rural Development-     
  Cooperative Programs National Office where it will be reviewed and scored on a     
  competitive basis as described in the annual solicitation for proposals. If        
  selected for an award, the applicant must complete the objectives as defined in    
  the approved proposal.                                                             
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Annual deadline as published in the Federal Register.                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 60 to 120 days after solicitation closes and application is filed with the    
  Rural Development-Cooperative Programs.                                            
Appeals:                                                                             
  Applicants may appeal any adverse decisions to the National Appeals Division.      
Renewals:                                                                            
  This program is conducted annually and requires a new application and              
  competition each year. Hence, renewals are not applicable.                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Federal funds may be used to pay up to 75 percent of the costs for carrying out    
  relevant projects. Applicants' contributions may be in cash or in-kind

  contributions and must be from non-Federal funds.                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Matching funds must be spent in proportion to the spending of funds received       
  from the cooperative agreement. All awards are for one year from the beginning     
  of the performance period as specified in the terms and conditions of the          
  agreement.                                                                         
Reports:                                                                             
  Progress reports must be submitted to Rural Development--Cooperative               
  Programs National Office on a quarterly basis. A final report must be submitted    
  to Rural Development--Cooperative Programs National Office within 90 days          
  following the end of the performance period. All reports forwarded to Rural        
  Development--Cooperative Programs National Office must also be forwarded to        
  the Rural Development State Office. Upon request by Rural Development--            
  Cooperative Programs National Office, the recipient will deliver manuscripts,      
  videotapes, software, or other media, as may be identified in approved proposals.  
  Recipients will deliver project outreach success stories and other project related 
  information requested by Rural Development--Cooperative Programs National          


146                                                                            11-08

  Office for use on the website.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of States,
  Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, non-Federal entities that
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Non-Federal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular A-133. Those non-
  Federal entities exempt from Circular A-133 will be audited by the Rural
  Development State Office.
Records:
  The recipient will maintain adequate records and accounts to assure that
  agreement funds are used for authorized purposes. Records will also be
  maintained by the Rural Development--Cooperative Programs National Office
  National Office and RD Budget Office according to USDA and Agency record-
  keeping requirements.
Account Identification:
  12-0403-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported. (NOTE:
  Program funds are discretionary in nature and funding decisions are made
  during the third quarter of the fiscal year. Cooperative Agreements for technical
  assistance with 1890 Institutions totaled the following amounts in the year
  indicated.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Cooperative Agreements awarded typically range from $75,000 to $100,000 and
  average $136,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 3015; 7 CFR 3017; 7 CFR 3018; 7 CFR 3019; 7 CFR 3021; and, 7 CFR
  3052. NOTE: Executive Order 13256 (February 12, 2002), President's Board of
  Advisors on Historically Black Colleges and Universities. Please see all details
  in the annual program notice of funding availability in the Federal Register.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the appropriate RD State Office or check the website noted in this
  announcement. Email: CPGrants@wdc.usda.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Edgar L. Lewis, Rural Development 1890 Land Grant Outreach Manager,
  Cooperative Programs, Business and Cooperative Programs, U.S. Department of
  Agriculture, 1400 Independence Ave. SW, Stop 3252, Washington, DC 20250
  3252. Telephone: (202) 690-3407.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov/rbs/oa/1890.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Cooperative Agreement funds were used to fund outreach initiatives including
  technical assistance in economic and community development, feasibility
  studies, research, market development, loan packaging, conducting workshops
  and seminars in the area of business and economic development, and developing
  and providing access to computer technology and website development to the
  targeted population and communities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Each application will be evaluated in a two-part process. First, each application
  will be screened to ensure that it meets the administrative requirements as set
  forth in a Notice of Request for Proposals. Second, a number of expert reviewers
  will conduct a merit review based on the "Evaluation Criteria and Weights"
  section of the Notice of Request for Proposals as published in the Federal
  Register.
10.857 STATE BULK FUEL REVOLVING FUND GRANTS
   (RUS)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, Title I, Section 19, Public Law
  106-472, 114 Stat. 2058, 7 U.S.C. 918a.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants to State entities for revolving funds to promote more cost-
  effective fuel purchases for communities where fuel cannot be shipped by
  surface transportation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds must be used to establish and support a revolving fund to provide a more
  cost-effective means of purchasing fuel where fuel cannot be shipped by means
  of surface transportation. Not more than 4 percent of the funds made available
