EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Projects funded by the Denali Commission through this grant were selected from       
  approved projects on the Denali Commission Work Plan and include                     
  improvements and replacements of bulk fuel storage and handling facilities and       
  electric distribution system improvements in remote Alaskan villages.                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  The Agency Administrator makes a grant award based on Denali Letter of               
  Request and Denali Annual Work Plan.                                                 
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
10.859 ASSISTANCE TO HIGH ENERGY COST RURAL

                                                                                       
COMMUNITIES                                                                            
      (RUS High Energy Cost Grants)                                                    
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                   
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, Title I, Section 19, Public Law       
  106-472, 114 Stat. 2058, 7 U.S.C. 918a.                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  Assistance to rural communities with extremely high energy costs.                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants; Direct Loans.                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds must be used to acquire, construct, extend, upgrade, and improve energy        
  generation, transmission, or distribution facilities serving communities in which    
  the average annual expenditure for home energy costs is at least 275 percent of      
  the national average. Energy efficiency and on-grid and off-grid renewable           
  energy systems are eligible. Not more than 4 percent of amounts made available       
  in grant funds may be used for planning and administrative expenses. Funds           
  may not be used to pay utility bills, fuel costs, or operating expenses.             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Eligible applicants include States, political subdivisions of States, for-profit and 
  non-profit businesses, cooperatives, associations, organizations, and other          
  entities organized under the laws of States, Indian tribes, tribal entities, and     
  individuals. The governments and entities located in any U.S.                        
  Territory/possession or other area authorized by law to receive the services and     
  programs of the Rural Utilities Service or the Rural Electrification Act of 1936,    
  as amended, are also eligible.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Projects must serve rural communities in which the annual average residential        
  expenditure for home energy is at least 275 percent of the national average.         
  Energy cost eligibility benchmarks are included in the published Notice of           
  Funding Availability.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.

                                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                       
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Grant applications are accepted in response to a Notice of Funding Availability

                                                                                       
  published in the Federal Register and Grants.gov. Application requirements are

  described in the published notice and on the agency web site. Application            
                                                                                       
  materials may also be requested from the Agency.

                                                                                       
Award Procedure:

                                                                                       
  Grants will be awarded based on competitive ranking of applications according

  to published evaluation criteria for technical merit, community need, economic       
                                                                                       
  hardship, and rurality.

                                                                                       
Deadlines:

                                                                                       
  Deadlines for applications will be published in the Notice of Funding

                                                                                       
  Availability in the Federal Register, Grants.gov and on the Agency web site.

                                                                                       
  Applications will be accepted only during the announced application window.

                                                                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                       
  Selection of grant finalists will be announced approximately 90 to 180 days after

                                                                                       
  the application deadline. Final Grant awards will be approved after completion

                                                                                       
  of environmental review and other pre-award requirements.

                                                                                       
Appeals:

                                                                                       
  Applicants may appeal rejections of ineligible applications to the Administrator

  of the Rural Utilities Service under procedures in program regulations at 7 CFR      
                                                                                       
  Part 1709. Applicants may not appeal numerical rankings of competitive grant

                                                                                       
  applications.

                                                                                       
Renewals:

                                                                                       
  Not applicable.

Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Grant agreements will run for the period of time necessary to complete the           
  project and provide at least one year of operating data, generally about three       
  years. Extensions may be granted. Advances and reimbursements will be                
  disbursed over the term of the grant on request of the grantee.                      
Reports:                                                                               
                                                                                       
148                                                                              11-08

  Grant recipients will be required to file periodic financial and performance
  reports specified in the grant agreement and program regulations.
Audits:
  Recipient will be required to report in accordance with the provisions of OMB
  Circular A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments,
  and Non-Profit Organizations," as applicable, and as provided in the grant
  agreement and program regulations.
Records:
  Grantee must maintain records in accordance with requirements of
  programregulations and the grant agreement.
Account Identification:
  12-0400-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $3,928,578; FY 08 est, $21,900,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Minimum award is $75,000 and maximum is $5,000,000. Individual grant
  awards have ranged from approximately $175,000 to $3.775,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007 it is expected that 50 applications will be submitted and that 15 to
  20 projects will be funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR Part 1709.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Administrator,Electric Programs, Rural Development Utilities
  Programs, Department of Agriculture, Washington, D.C. 20250-1560.
  Telephone: (202) 720-9545. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usda.gov/rus/electric/hecgp/index.htm
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.850, Rural Electrification Loans and Loan Guarantees; 10.854, Rural
  Economic Development Loans and Grants.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A total of 32 grant projects are currently active and include electric generation,
  transmission, and distribution upgrades and replacements, energy efficiency
  improvements, and on-grid and off-grid renewable energy systems. The projects
  benefit local consumers by preserving reliable service and reducing or limiting
  rate increases.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Grant applications will be ranked competitively based on published evaluation
  criteria. All projects must serve rural communities with extremely high energy
  costs.
10.860 RURAL BUSINESS INVESTMENT PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended, Subtitle H, 7
  U.S.C. 2009cc et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote economic development and create wealth and job opportunities
  among individuals living in rural areas and help to meet the equity capital
  investment needs primarily of smaller enterprises located in such areas.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans; Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  USDA licenses newly formed for-profit entities as Rural Business Investment
  Company's (RBIC)s and provides financial assistance in the form of debenture
  guarantees to such RBICs to fund their rural area investment activities.
  Recipients use funds from the guaranteed debentures to make equity capital
  investments mostly in smaller enterprises located primarily in rural areas.
  Additionally, USDA awards Operational Assistance grants to RBICs for the
  recipient to provide operational and technical assistance to the enterprises in
  which the RBIC invests. Debentures issued by the RBIC and guaranteed by
  USDA are for a term not to exceed 10 years.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An applicant is eligible to apply for an RBIC license if it meets the criteria in
  Subpart C of 7 CFR part 4290, which include but are not limited to: (1) the
  company is a newly formed for-profit entity or a newly formed for-profit
  subsidiary of such an entity; (2) the company has a qualified management team
  with experience in community development financing or relevant venture capital
  financing; and (3) the company will invest in enterprises that will create wealth
  and job opportunities in rural areas, with an emphasis on smaller enterprises.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individual businesses or enterprises must satisfy established criteria, including
  but not limited to being: (A) a public, private, or cooperative for-profit or
  nonprofit organization; (B) a for-profit or nonprofit business controlled by an
  Indian tribe on a Federal or State reservation or other federally recognized Indian
  tribal group; or (C) any other person or entity; that primarily operates in a rural
