  area, as determined by the Secretary.                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility and financial responsibility    
  relative to the activity for which assistance is requested. This program is      
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                   
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Applicants may submit applications only after USDA publishes a Notice of         
  Funds Availability (NOFA) in the Federal Register and invites applications.      
  Applicants must submit applications by the deadline specified in the NOFA.

  Application information and associated forms are available from the SBA          
  Investment Division.

Award Procedure:

                                                                                   
  Applicants for RBIC designation will be selected for approval as an RBIC.        
  Selected applicants then will have a certain period of time, specified by USDA

  but no more than 2 years, to raise its private capital. Those selected applicants
  that raise such resources by the applicable deadline and that meet other         
  conditions established by USDA will receive a license to operate as an RBIC,     
  which will include an operational assistance grant and a commitment of leverage  
  in the form of debenture guarantees.                                             
Deadlines:                                                                         
  Application deadlines will be set forth in a NOFA published in the Federal       
  Register.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  SBA, on behalf of USDA, may take an average of 120 days to consider and          
  approve/disapprove applications.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                           
  Applicant(s) have the right to request review by USDA's National Appeals         
  Division, per 7 CFR 4290.1940(i).                                                
Renewals:                                                                          
  None.                                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  Applicants for a RBIC license must raise a minimum amount of private equity      
  capital and must obtain debenture leverage (in the amount of 200 percent of its  
  private capital) through the RBIP, to fund their investment activities. Under the
  current NOFA, USDA requires $10,000,000 in private equity capital and will       
  not be granting exceptions to this requirement, pursuant to 7 CFR 4290.210(b),   
  under this funding opportunity.                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  RBICs must issue any Debentures subject to USDA guarantee within five years      
  of licensing as an RBIC. Project grant funds will be available for a time period 
  not to exceed 5 years after award.                                               
Reports:                                                                           
  SBA, on behalf of USDA, will request financial information including, but not    
  limited to, financial statements, economic impact and community development      
  information, and portfolio financing reports and valuations.                     
Audits:                                                                            
  SBA, on behalf of USDA, will require an annual financial report performed by     
  an independent public accountant and periodic examinations performed by SBA      
  examiners or an examiner contracted by SBA.                                      
Records:                                                                           
  Appropriate records as needed for requirements of 111 and 112.                   
Account Identification:                                                            
  12-1907-0-1-452.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.    
  Note: RBIP Program included in Deficit Reduction Act of 2006, which              
  cancelled all remaining unobligated funds as of September 30, 2006. No new       
  funding has subsequently been made available.                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  $20,000,000 Debentures and $1,000,000 Grants.                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                   
  None.

                                                                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                   
  7 CFR Part 4290. Further, Section 384Q of the statute required the Secretary to

                                                                                   
  enter into an interagency agreement under Section 1535 of Title 31, United

                                                                                   
  States Code, with another Federal agency that has considerable expertise in

                                                                                   
  operating a program under which capital is provided for equity investments in

                                                                                   
  private sector companies. USDA and the Small Business Administration (SBA)

                                                                                   
  signed an Economy Act Agreement on October 31, 2003. The Agreement

                                                                                   
  authorizes SBA to provide the day-to-day management and operation of the

                                                                                   
  RBIP, including administrative and all data management, licensing and

                                                                                   
  regulatory compliance functions.

                                                                                   
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                   
  Consult your local telephone directory for the appropriate Rural Development

                                                                                   
  State Office listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.

                                                                                   
Headquarters Office:

  Administrator, Rural Business-Cooperative Service, Department of Agriculture,    
  Washington, DC 20250-3201. Telephone: (202) 690-4730, Fax: (202) 690-            
                                                                                   


                                                                              11-08
  4737.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.sba.gov/INV/RBIP
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Equity venture capital finance experience, community development finance
  experience, and ability to raise equity capital.
10.861 PUBLIC TELEVISION STATION DIGITAL
TRANSITION GRANT PROGRAM
   (Public Television Station Digital Transition Grant Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Agriculture, Rural Development, Food and Drug Administration, and Related
  Agencies Appropriations Act, 2006; Title III, Rural Development Programs;
  Rural Utilities Service; Distance Learning, Telemedicine, and Broadband
  Program; Public Law 109-97.
OBJECTIVES:
  The Federal Communications Commission (FCC) has ordered all television
  broadcasters to initiate the broadcast of a digital television signal and to cease
  analog television broadcasts. The result of this conversion will be a new, high
  performance television system that is highly efficient in its use of the radio
  spectrum. This will free spectrum to enable the introduction of new wireless
  telecommunications services such as mobile wireless Internet access. Before
  spectrum can be reallocated to new uses, all television stations must make the
  transition to the new broadcast system. Lagging far behind in this transition are
  the rural public television stations, which depend on viewer donations and
  public funds to buy the expensive digital equipment. A significant number of
  stations have not completed the transition, and many are rural stations that have
  no funding to proceed. The deadline for initiating digital broadcasting was May
  2003, and all waivers of that date have expired. These stations are in violation
  of their FCC licenses. On February 17, 2009, all analog broadcasting is
  scheduled to cease, meaning that stations that have not transitioned will stop
  broadcasting any television signal. In addition to the public losing the benefits
  of public television programming, this will leave many school systems without
  educational programming they count on for curriculum compliance. This grant
  program assists rural public television stations in making the transition to digital
  television signal broadcasting.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants may be used to install digital television facilities through purchase or
  lease (up to three years of lease costs); and for associated engineering and
  environmental studies. All broadcast facilities acquired under this program must
  be capable of delivering both digital television (DTV, sometimes called standard
  definition) and high definition television (HDTV) at both the interim and final
  channel power authorizations. Grant funds may be used to fund facilities
  directly connected to the digital transition of the broadcast signal such as: digital
  transmitters; digital translators; transmitting antennas; new towers or
  improvements to existing towers necessary for antenna installation; tower
  ground infrastructure such as land, buildings, fencing, standby power, and where
  commercial power is unreliable, power generation and conditioning facilities;
  studio to transmitter/translator communication links; television program
  production and management equipment; datacasting equipment; and subject to
  RUS approval, other facilities directly necessary for the digital transition of the
  broadcast signal. Grants shall not be used: to fund operations or for facilities not
  owned by the applicant (except for leased facilities as described above); for
  salaries, wages, and other public television employee benefits; for construction
  performed or expenditures made prior to the application deadline; or for
  facilities funded under other grants.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The applicant must be a public television station that serves a rural area
  regardless of whether they also serve an urban area. (Rural area means any area
  of the United States not included within the boundaries of any incorporated or
  unincorporated city, village, or borough having a population in excess of 20,000
  inhabitants.) The applicant must also be required to convert from analog to
  digital transmission under the rules of the FCC. For the purpose of this grant
  program, a public television station must be an organization which (1) qualifies
  for Federal funding under Section 396(k) of the Public Broadcasting Act of
  1967, and (2) which is either: (a) under the rules and regulations of the FCC in
  effect on November 2, 1978, eligible to be licensed as a noncommercial
  educational broadcast station and which is owned and operated by a public
  agency or nonprofit private foundation, corporation, or association; or (b) owned
  and operated by a municipality and which transmits only noncommercial
                                                                                      149
