  programs for education purposes.                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Anyone who receives the improved digital television signal from a rural public       
  television station or attends an educational institution that uses public television 
  in its curriculum.                                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  The applicant must provide evidence demonstrating that it meets the definition       
  of a public television station in section 81, above. The applicant must also         
  provide evidence that the FCC has authorized the initiation of digital               
  broadcasting at each of the Applicant's transmitter and translator sites.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.              
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  An applicant must submit an application in accordance with the Program's             
  application guide. In addition to Government-wide requirements, the applicant        
  shall provide a description of the project including: an executive summary, a        
  project cost spreadsheet, broadcast coverage maps, a complete narrative              
  description, and an environmental assessment.                                        
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  All complete applications from eligible applicants that meet the application         
  deadline will be scored in a competitive process to determine which projects are     
  funded. There are three scoring categories. The first is rurality, a measure of the  
  rural character of the applicant's digital television coverage area. Up to 50        
  points can be earned in this category. The second uses the National School           
  Lunch Program eligibility percentage as a measure of the economic need of the        
  people in the applicant's coverage area. This category earns up to 25 points.        
  Finally, up to 25 points can be awarded based on critical need.                      
Deadlines:                                                                             
  RUS publishes application dates and deadlines annually in a Notice of Funding        
  Availability in the Federal Register.                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Applications are approved each fiscal year for which funding is made available.      
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  None.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  None.                                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  RUS will advance funds as needed (but no more frequently than once every 30

                                                                                       
  days) to reimburse disbursements for approved grant purposes. A recipient

  generally has three years to spend funds. RUS may approve a one year

                                                                                       
  extension.

                                                                                       
Reports:                                                                               
  The recipient must provide periodic performance reports and permit periodic          
  inspection by RUS of the project. The recipient must constantly monitor              
  performance to ensure that it is meeting time schedules, accomplishing projected     
  work by time periods, and achieving other performance objectives. The                
  recipient must provide periodic financial reports to RUS. The performance and        
  financial reports must be submitted to RUS on a quarterly basis throughout the       
  project construction period.                                                         
Audits:                                                                                
  The recipient must provide RUS with an audit for each year in which a portion        
  of the grant is expended. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular          
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and        
  Non Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of   
  $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific          
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than             
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements         
  for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                
Records:                                                                               
  The recipient must maintain all records needed to identify the purposes for          
  which, and the manner in which, grant and other funds were expended on the           
  project. The recipient must maintain such records for three years after the          
  project is completed. The recipient must provide reasonable access to these          
  records to RUS.                                                                      
Account Identification:                                                                
  12-1232-0-1-452.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,950,000; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported.                     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  The maximum grant for an individual public television station is $1 million. In

                                                                                       
  fiscal year 2006, the average grant amount was $497,000. The 10 grants ranged

                                                                                       
  from $110,525 to $1,000,000.

                                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                       
  During fiscal year 2006, 10 applicants received grants.

                                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                       
  7 CFR Part 1740 - Public Television Station Digital Transition Grant Program

                                                                                       
  (Interim final rule with request for comments)

                                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                       


150                                                                              11-08

  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Administrator, Telecommunications Program, Rural Utilities Service,
  Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W., STOP 1590,
  Room 5151, Washington, DC 20250-1590. Telephone: (202) 720 9554, Fax:
  (202) 720 0810.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usda.gov/rus/telecom/index.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The grant will enable the purchase of a full power transmitter, 14 translators,
  master control equipment, and standby power. The grant will fund DTV
  translators. It will also fund purchase and installation of a DTV video
  distribution system to mirror the programming storage functions of a similar
  system. In addition, the grant will fund a digital media server and automation
  system. The grant will finance a full power digital television transmission
  facility serving an area that is currently served by six low power analog
  translators. Funding will cover a new tower, building, transmission equipment,
  and associated processing, monitoring, and test equipment. The grant will fund
  an emergency backup power generation system to provide a reliable broadcast
  during power outages. The grant will fund a studio-to-transmitter
  communication system, a transmission link for High Definition programming,
  and a dynamic Program and System Information Protocol generation system.
  The grant will fund a three hop microwave system to deliver the digital signal
  140 miles The grant will allow the conversion of two translators to digital. The
  translators serve areas hidden from the transmitters by terrain. It will also
  provide interconnection from the headquarters to the translator sites using a
  vacant UHF channel. The grant will finance the upgrade of microwave systems
  that will allow two stations to deliver standard and high definition signals.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Complete, eligible applications that meet the application deadline are scored to
  determine which projects are funded. There are three scoring categories:
  rurality, up to 50 points; economic need, up to 25 points; and critical need, up to
  25 points.
10.862 HOUSEHOLD WATER WELL SYSTEM GRANT
PROGRAM
   (HWWS Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended, Section 306E,
  Public Law 107-171, 7 U.S.C. 1926e.
OBJECTIVES:
  To make grants to private, nonprofit organizations to finance the construction,
  refurbishing and servicing of individually-owned household water well systems
  in rural areas for individuals with low or moderate income.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant funds will be used to establish and maintain a revolving loan fund to
  provide loans to eligible individuals to construct, refurbish, and service
  individually-owned household water well systems. Eligible individuals must
  own or will own the household water well systems. Funds may be used to pay
  administrative expenses associated with providing the loans. Grant funds may
  not be used to pay (1) administrative expenses exceeding 10 percent of the loans
  made during the calendar year; (2) administrative expenses incurred before the
  Rural Utilities Service executes a grant agreement; (3) delinquent debt owed to
  the Federal Government.
Applicant Eligibility:
  An applicant must be a private organization, organized as a non-profit
  corporation. The applicant must have the legal capacity and authority to
  perform the obligations of the grant. The applicant must have sufficient
  expertise and experience in lending activities and promoting the safe and
  productive use of individually-owned household water well systems and ground
  water.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  An individual in a household in which the combined income of all household
  members (for the most recent 12 months) does not exceed 100 percent of the
  median non-metropolitan household income for the State or territory in which
  the individual resides.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility, ability to administer and
  service a revolving loan fund, commitment and sources of financial resources
  the organization controls.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by
