  OMB Circular No. A-110. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.        
  12372.                                                                           
Application Procedure:                                                             
  The Water and Environmental Programs of the USDA Rural Utilities Service         
  administers the program. Application Form SF-424 is filed at the National        
  Office in Washington, DC, from which assistance may be obtained. This            
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                  
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  The Water and Environmental Programs staff in Washington, DC, will review        
  and process the application. Following completion of application processing      
  requirements and grant approval, funds are made available to the applicant.      
Deadlines:                                                                         
  As published in the FEDERAL REGISTER in a Notice of Availability of              
  Funding.                                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  From 30 to 90 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                           
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are stated fully. The   
  applicant may request a review of this decision at the RUS National level.       
Renewals:                                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  This program has no statutory formula. Applicants are encouraged to provide      
  matching funds to receive scoring priorities.                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  A time limitation is not specified for the RUS grant funds. Funds will be        
  awarded when all RUS requirements are met and the project can be completed       
  on a timely basis.                                                               
Reports:                                                                           
  Periodic reports are to be made to the RUS servicing official.                   
Audits:                                                                            
  Periodic audits should be made as part of the recipient's system of financial    
  management and internal control to meet terms and conditions of the grants and   
  other agreements. Audits should be completed in accordance with the              
  requirements of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of States, Local Governments,     
  and Nonprofit Organizations or RUS requirements, whichever apply.                
Records:                                                                           
  Records and accounts are required to reflect the project operations.             
Account Identification:                                                            
  12-0400-0-1-452.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 $990,000; FY 08 $990,000; and FY 09 est not reported.             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  $200,000 to $500,000.                                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  In Fiscal Year 2007, it is estimated that at least three grants totaling $990,000
  will be made. At least three grants will be awarded in Fiscal Year 2008.         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  7 CFR 1776, Household Water Well System Grant Program; The Household             
  Water Well System Program: 2004 Grant Application Guide.                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Consult your local telephone directory for Rural Development local number. If    
  no listing, get in touch with the appropriate Rural Development State Office     
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs, Rural Utilities       
  Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202)       
  690-2670.                                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  10.760, Water and Waste Disposal Systems for Rural Communities.                  
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  None.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  RUS assistance for grant projects will be directed toward truly rural areas and  
  rural communities. Considerations for available funds emphasize such criteria    
  as; population, low income, unemployment; health and sanitary problems. RUS      
  financed facilities will not be inconsistent with any development plans of the   
  State, multi-jurisdictional area, county, or municipality in which the proposed  
  project is located.                                                              
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
10.863 COMMUNITY CONNECT GRANT PROGRAM                                             
   (Community Connect Grant Program)                                               
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2005; Title III: Rural Development Programs;    
  Rural Utilities Service; Distance Learning, Telemedicine, and Broadband          


                                                                              11-08
  Program; Public Law 108-447.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage community-oriented connectivity by providing grants to eligible
  applicants who will deploy broadband transmission service in rural communities
  where such service does not currently exist; who will connect all critical
  community facilities such as local schools, education centers, libraries, hospitals,
  health care providers, law enforcement agencies, public safety organizations,
  fire, and rescue services, as well as residents and businesses; and who will
  operate a community center which provides free and open access to area
  residents.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants will be made available, on a competitive basis, for the deployment of
  broadband transmission services to critical community facilities, rural residents,
  and rural businesses and for the construction, acquisition, expansion, and/or
  operation of a community center which would provide free access to broadband
  transmission services to community residents for at least two years. Funding is
  also available for end-user equipment, software, and installation costs. See 7
  CFR Part 1739 for details.
Applicant Eligibility:
  To be eligible for a grant, the applicant must: (a) be legally organized as an
  incorporated organization, an Indian tribe or tribal organization, a state or local
  unit of government, or other legal entity, including cooperatives or private
  corporations or limited liability companies organized on a for profit or not-for
  profit basis, and (b) have the legal capacity and authority to own and operate the
  broadband facilities as proposed in its application, to enter into contracts and to
  otherwise comply with applicable federal statutes and regulations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The people living in rural areas and to improve rural opportunities through the
  availability of access to high speed broadband networks.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None required. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submit an application in accordance with 7 CFR 1739 and its accompanying
  application guide.
Award Procedure:
  Grants are awarded on a competitive basis to applicants receiving the highest
  number of points.
Deadlines:
  RUS annually publishes application dates and deadlines in a Notice of Funding
  Availability.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Applications are approved each fiscal year for which funding is made available.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no formula requirements. The grant applicant must contribute
  a matching contribution which is at least 15 percent of the grant amount
  requested.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funds may be advanced monthly or as needed to reimburse disbursements for
  approved grant purposes. Applicants generally have three years to spend funds.
  Extensions may be granted.
Reports:
  SF 269, "Financial Status Report," and project performance activity report
  required annually.
Audits:
  An audit report is required for the years in which funds are received.
Records:
  Grantee will provide evidence that funds are expended for approved purposes.
Account Identification:
  12-1232-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The minimum grant amount is $50,000. The size of grants varies.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 1739 Notice of solicitation of applications in the Federal Register; Vol.
  70, No. 60; Wednesday, March 30, 2005. Community Connect Broadband
  Program Grant Application Guide - Fiscal Year 2005.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Administrator, Telecommunications Program, Rural Utilities Service,
                                                                                     151
