  Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W., STOP 1590,                 
  Room 5151, Washington, DC 20250 1590. Telephone: (202) 720 9554, Fax:                 
  (202) 720-0810.                                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.usda.gov/rus/telecom/commconnect.htm .                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  The grant funds will establish a broadband path to the Internet over an existing      
  microwave route. Broadband will be delivered to homes and businesses using            
  DSL technology. Internet traffic will be handled economically and efficiently by      
  equipping the community with equipment to enable it to interface with the             
  applicant's satellite mesh technology. Demographic barriers to broadband              
  adoption will be overcome by equipping a community center with computers              
  and Internet access free of charge for 2 years. The project will provide wireless     
  broadband internet service to the community. The project will connect all             
  community critical facilities, businesses, the elementary school, and homes on        
  the reservation. Public safety and health organizations will have improved            
  communications, which can be life saving in emergency situations. The                 
  community center will be accessible to residents for information research,            
  education, marketing and promotion, and personal or business communications           
  using high-speed internet. All center workstations will have GED and other self       
  paced interactive learning software installed and the center will also provide        
  basic computer and internet skill training to end-users. The project will create a    
  tribal website and digital community bulletin board to enhance communication          
  within the tribal organization and with community members. The project will           
  employ broadband wireless technology to reach locations where only slow               
  (14.4Kb/sec), expensive (long-distance) wireline Internet connections exist. In       
  addition to providing residential access, the project will enable the local           
  government to enhance and streamline core public services including Head Start,       
  tribal courts, cultural and social services, and community health outreach efforts.   
    The grant will address community challenges including the lack of a library,        
  hospital, and police department by providing broadband Internet access to the         
  community. High-speed online connections will establish online city services to       
  benefit the residents, including the remote monitoring of water resources, and a      
  Web presence to assist with economic development efforts. The community will          
  have access to computer training and education in e commerce; students will           
  have access to distance learning programs and enhanced curricula. The RUS             
  grant will fund a community center, including computers and staff for 2 years.        
  The applicant, a local telephone carrier, will also provide a fiber to the premises   
  (FTTP) network for the town, in an effort to bolster economic development             
  opportunities, as the area's economy transitions away from complete reliance on       
  production agriculture. "Always-on" Internet access can encourage new                 
  business migration, telecommuting and local entrepreneurs.                            
                                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

  Not applicable.                                                                       
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
10.864 GRANT PROGRAM TO ESTABLISH A FUND FOR                                            
FINANCING WATER AND WASTEWATER PROJECTS                                                 
                                                                                        
      (RFP Program)

                                                                                        
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act, as amended, Section 6002,                
  Public Law 107-171, 7 U.S.C. 1926e.                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To make grants to private, nonprofit organizations to establish a revolving loan      
  fund to make small, short term loans for pre-development or small capital water       
  or waste disposal projects.                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants.                                                                       
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Grant funds will be used to establish and maintain a revolving loan fund to           
  finance pre-development costs associated with proposed water and wastewater           
  projects or with existing water and wastewater systems, and short-term costs          
  incurred for replacement equipment, small-scale extension of services, or other       
  small capital projects that are not part of the regular operations and maintenance    
  activities of existing water and wastewater systems.                                  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                  
  An applicant must be a private organization, organized as a non-profit                
  corporation. The applicant must have the legal capacity and authority to perform      
  the obligations of the grant. The applicant must have sufficient expertise and        
  experience in making and servicing loans.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Municipalities, counties, and other political subdivisions of a State, such as        
  districts and authorities, associations, cooperatives, corporations operated on a     
  not-for-profit basis, Indian tribes on Federal and State reservations and other       
  Federally recognized Indian tribes. Facilities shall primarily serve rural residents  


152                                                                               11-08

  and rural businesses. The service area shall not include any area in any city or
  town having a population in excess of 10,000 inhabitants according to the latest
  decennial census of the United States. The loan recipient must be unable to
  finance the proposed project from their own resources or through commercial
  credit at reasonable rates and terms. The loan recipient must have or will obtain
  the legal authority necessary for owning, constructing, operating and
  maintaining the proposed service or facility, and for obtaining, giving security
  for, and repaying the proposed loan.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence of legal capacity, economic feasibility, ability to administer and
  service a revolving loan fund, commitment and sources of financial resources
  the organization controls.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms furnished by the Federal agency and required by
  OMB Circular No. A-110. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.
  12372.
Application Procedure:
  The Water and Environmental Programs of the USDA Rural Utilities Service
  administers the program. Application Form SF-424 is filed at the National
  Office in Washington, DC, from which assistance may be obtained. This
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The Water and Environmental Programs staff in Washington, DC, will review
  and process the application. Following completion of application processing
  requirements and grant approval, funds are made available to the applicant.
Deadlines:
  To be determined by Secretary, USDA.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 30 to 60 days.
Appeals:
  If an application is rejected, the reasons for rejection are stated fully. The
  applicant may request a review of this decision at the RUS National level.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Applicants must provide funds from other sources equal to at least 20 percent of
  the RFP grant.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  A time limitation is not specified for the RUS grant funds. Funds will be
  awarded when all RUS requirements are met and the project can be completed
  on a timely basis.
Reports:
  Periodic reports are to be made to the RUS servicing official.
Audits:
  Periodic audits should be made as part of the recipient's system of financial
  management and internal control to meet terms and conditions of the grants and
  other agreements. Audits should be completed in accordance with the
  requirements of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of States, Local Governments,
  and Nonprofit Organizations or RUS requirements, whichever apply.
Records:
  Records and accounts are required to reflect the project operations.
Account Identification:
  12-0400-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $495,000 FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not available.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 1783, Grant Program to Establish a Fund for Financing Water and
  Wastewater Projects; The Revolving Fund Program 2005 Grant Application
  Guide.
Regional or Local Office:
  Consult your local telephone directory for Rural Development local number. If
  no listing, get in touch with the appropriate Rural Development State Office
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Administrator, Water and Environmental Programs, Rural Utilities
  Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202)
  690-2670.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.rurdev.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.760, Water and Waste Disposal Systems for Rural Communities.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  RUS assistance for grant projects will be directed toward truly rural areas and
  rural communities. Considerations for available funds emphasize such criteria
  as; population, low income, unemployment; health and sanitary problems. RUS
