  financed facilities will not be inconsistent with any development plans of the     
  State, multi-jurisdictional area, county, or municipality in which the proposed    
  project is located.                                                                
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
10.886 RURAL BROADBAND ACCESS LOANS AND LOAN                                         
GUARANTEES                                                                           
                                                                                     
   (Rural Broadband Access Loans and Loan Guarantees)

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                     
  RURAL UTILITIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE

                                                                                     
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                     
  Rural Electrification Act of 1936, as amended, Title VI; 7 U.S.C. 950bb.

OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assure that people in eligible rural communities have access to broadband       
  service comparable in reliability and quality to the rest of the Nation.           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Loans; Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  RUS makes long term direct and guaranteed loans to eligible entities for the       
  purpose of financing the construction, improvement, and acquisition of             
  telecommunications facilities and equipment to provide broadband service in        
  eligible rural communities. Eligible rural communities are defined as any area     
                                                                                     
  of the United States (which includes its territories and insular possessions,

                                                                                     
  including the Federated States of Micronesia, the Republic of the Marshall

                                                                                     
  Islands, and the Republic of Palau); that is not contained in an incorporated city

                                                                                     
  or town with a population in excess of 20,000 inhabitants, based on the most

                                                                                     
  recent available information of the Bureau of the Census. Broadband Service

                                                                                     
  means any technology having the capacity to transmit at a minimum

                                                                                     
  transmission speed of 200 kbps both from and to a residential subscriber. The

                                                                                     
  rate of data transmission is subject to annual review and will be published in the

                                                                                     
  Notice of Funds Availability at the beginning of each fiscal year. Loans

                                                                                     
  maturities are equal to the composite economic life of the facilities financed.

                                                                                     
  The interest rate for the Cost-of-Money program is equal to the cost of

                                                                                     
  borrowing to the Department of Treasury for a comparable maturity. The 4-

                                                                                     
  Percent program interest rate is 4 percent and the maximum loan amount for the     
  4-Percent program is $7.5 million. The interest rate for the Guarantee program is  
  set by the lender.                                                                 
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Cooperative, nonprofit, limited dividend or mutual associations, limited liability

                                                                                     
  companies, commercial organizations, Indian tribes, tribal organizations, state    
  government, local government, including those located in the U.S. territories and  
  countries included in the Compact of Free Association Act of 1985, providing or    
  proposing to provide broadband services in eligible rural communities. The         
  following are not eligible: individuals, partnerships, limited liability           
  partnerships, and any entity serving more than 2 percent of the telephone          
  subscriber lines installed in the United States. Applicants must meet a credit     
  support requirement; see7 CFR 1738.20.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Residents of eligible rural communities and others who may receive service as a    
  result of service provided to a rural area.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Applicants must supply environmental impact information to determine whether       
  an environmental impact assessment or an environmental impact statement will

  be required. This program is excluded from coverage under Executive Order

  12372.                                                                             
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The completed loan application consists of twenty-one schedules. Form 532,         
  Rural Broadband Access Loan and Loan Guarantee Application, serves as the          
  official application document and as a checklist to assure all relevant            
  information is included. The major sections of an application include: business    
  plan, market research, historical and 5 year pro forma financial statements,       
  system design and project costs. The instructions for completing an application    
  are outlined in RUS Bulletin 1738-1: Rural Broadband Access Loan and Loan          
  Guarantee Program Application Guide. The bulletin and application are              
  available from RUS on request and on our website:                                  
  www.usda.gov/rus/telecom/broadband.htm.                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Depending on the amount of the application, and loan committee(s)                  
  recommendation, the RUS Administrator or Assistant Administrator                   
  Telecommunications, makes the final decision on approval of the loan or loan       
  guarantee. There must be a finding that the project is economically feasible,      
  capable of delivering Broadband Service, and services the purposes of the          
  program. Borrowers and member of Congress are notified directly of the             
  approval of a loan or loan guarantee.                                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  The program is an ongoing program with applications evaluated on a first come,     
  first served basis. There is no deadline for applications.                         


                                                                                11-08
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Normal processing time is four to five months.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Loan funds must be used within a five year period from the date of loan closing.
  A one time extension is permitted.
Reports:
  The borrower must submitted quarterly financial statements within 30 days of
  the end of each calendar quarter. The statements must consist of a balance
  sheet, income statement, and statement of cash flows.
Audits:
  All borrowers must have their books audited annually by a Certified Public
  Accountant. Information on audits is contained in 7 CFR Part 1773.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  12-1232-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Cost of Money Loans) FY 07 $923,186,000; FY 08 est $300,000,000; and FY
  09 est not reported. (4 Percent Loans) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est not
  reported. (Loan Guarantees) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est $0; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The minimum loan amount for the program is $100,000. There is no maximum
  loan amount except for 4 Percent loans (that amount is published by RUS in the
  Federal Register at the beginning of each fiscal year). The smallest loan
  approved to date is $362,000; the largest, $168,406,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2006, RUS approved 15 Cost of Money loans totaling
  $329,000,000.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 1738 - Rural Broadband Access Loans and Loan Guarantees Notice of
  funds availability, Federal Register, March 4, 2005 (Volume 70, Number 42)
  RUS Bulletin 1738-1: Rural Broadband Access Loan and Loan Guarantee
  Program Application Guide.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Assistant Administrator, Telecommunications Program, Rural Utilities Service,
  Department of Agriculture, 1400 Independence Avenue, S.W., STOP 1590,
  Room 5151, Washington, DC 20250 1590. Telephone number (202) 720 9554,
  Facsimile (202) 720 0810.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usda.gov/rus/telecom/broadband.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.851, Rural Telephone Loans and Loan Guarantees.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Loans have been approved to construct wireless, DSL, cable modem, and fiber to
  the premises (FTTP) broadband systems.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  See 7 CFR 1738.
10.901 RESOURCE CONSERVATION AND DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 97-98, 95 Stat. 1213.
OBJECTIVES:
  To encourage and improve the capability of State and local units of government
  and local nonprofit organizations in rural areas to plan, develop and carry out
  programs for resource conservation and development.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Advisory Services and Counseling.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Technical assistance is available only to RC&D sponsors within areas authorized
  by the Secretary of Agriculture for assistance. Technical assistance is available
  for the planning and installation of approved projects specified in RC&D area
  plans, for land conservation, water management, community development and
  environmental enhancement elements.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State and local governments and nonprofit organizations with authority to plan
  or carry out activities relating to resource use and development in
  multijurisdictional areas. This program is also available in Puerto Rico, the
  Virgin Islands, Guam and Mariana Islands.
                                                                                  153
