Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  State and local governments and nonprofit organizations within areas designated      
  as RC&D areas by the Secretary of Agriculture with authority to plan or carry        
  out activities relating to resource use and development in multijurisdictional       
  areas.                                                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicant agency(ies) and nonprofit organizations must document that                 
  application is made as a result of official action of the governing body.            
  Applications are honored only from agencies for which applicant eligibility has      
  been established. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular           
  No. A-87 for State and local governments.                                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the Single Point of Contact in his or her State for more               
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for         
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. This program is        
  excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Written application must be in the form suggested in the National Resource           
  Conservation and Development Manual. This program is subject to the                  
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Details of the procedure are available from State and field offices of the Natural   
  Resources Conservation Service.                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                             
  October 1.                                                                           
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Indeterminate. Authorization of applications is dependent upon the level of          
  appropriations for the program each year.                                            
Appeals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  When financial assistance is available, local or State agencies must provide land    
  rights needed for the installation of all projects. RC&D grant assistance (up to     
  25 percent not to exceed $50,000 of the total project cost) may be provided for a    
  project. Local or State agencies generally must provide ten percent of the total     
  cost and be responsible for any needed operation and maintenance. Loan               
  assistance may be provided for the local share of project cost.                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Reports:                                                                               
  Periodic inspections and reports are required to insure that structural projects for

                                                                                       
  which Federal financial assistance has been provided are being properly operated

                                                                                       
  and maintained in accordance with agreements.

                                                                                       
Audits:

                                                                                       
  In accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of States, Local

                                                                                       
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," which implement OMB Circular

                                                                                       
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and

                                                                                       
  Non-Profit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance

                                                                                       
  of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific

                                                                                       
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than

                                                                                       
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements

                                                                                       
  for that year, except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.

                                                                                       
Records:

                                                                                       
  None.

                                                                                       
Account Identification:

  12-1010-0-1-302.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $25,933,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09        
  est not reported.                                                                    
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Not available.                                                                       
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Not available.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  "Assistance available from the Natural Resources Conservation Service," AIB-         
  345; "Resource Conservation and Development Manual, 390 - V, Third Ed.               
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  State and field offices of the Natural Resources Conservation Service are listed     
  in Appendix IV of the Catalog. For loans, contacts should be made with the           
  Rural Development office serving the county in which the RC&D project is             
  located.                                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Deputy Chief for Programs, Resource Conservation and Community                       
  Development Division, Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of          
  Agriculture, P.O. Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013. Telephone: (202) 720-              
  2847.                                                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                      
154                                                                              11-08

  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.902, Soil and Water Conservation.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  NRCS and the Two Rivers RC&D Council in Georgia created a program to help
  utility companies cut maintenance expenses on more than 150,000 acres of
  utility transmission rights-of- way while protecting and enhancing the
  environment. Project WINGS (Wildlife Incentives for Nongame and Game
  Species) is a utility-based wildlife initiative offering technical and financial
  incentives to groups and individuals interested in creating wildlife habitat along
  electrical transmission rights-of-way. The use of customized management plans
  prepared by resource management professionals offers WINGS participants an
  opportunity to transform eroded brush land into productive wildlife lands. To
  date, more than 1000 individuals have been awarded corporate grants to convert
  over 7,000 acres of rights-of- way brush land to productive habitat. WINGS is a
  project that can be replicated, and has already been started in South Carolina
  where it is called Powerful Wildlife. The Rolling Hills RC&D in partnership
  with Georgia Department of Human Resources, Department of Family and
  Children's Services, and Department of Rehabilitative Services has implemented
  an innovative program called "Wheels to Work" that is helping people get off
  public assistance (welfare) and back to work. Many of these individuals who
  participate are single mothers that have never been independent before, never
  owned a vehicle, and are unable to obtain credit in order to purchase a vehicle of
  their own. The Rolling Hills RC&D Council has placed 110 vehicles with
  clients in the nine county region. These individuals are now off of the welfare
  roles and back to work. The funding for these clients was obtained through an
  appropriation from the Georgia General Assembly and the Lieutenant Governor.
  Rolling Hills received over $582,000 to purchase vehicles, pay staff, and other
  needed expenses. These funds were offset by car donations, assistance from
  local businesses and partners, and volunteer assistance. In Idaho homes that lie
  on the fringe of forests and rangeland face a continuing threat of fire that knows
  no boundary between private property and wildland. The West Central
  Highlands RC&D Council obtained funds to develop a Fire Education Corps.
  Five RC&Ds areas contracted with the Student Conservation Association (SCA)
  to put the Corps together. Fire Education Corps teams spent the summer of 2001
  conducting home safety evaluations and providing homeowners with fire
  prevention techniques, using the nationally recognized FIREWISE protocol, a
  program for fire education sponsored by a coalition of state and federal agencies.
  The teams concentrated their efforts in interface areas where fires might start
  and spread to homes that were surrounded by dense dry fuels. The Northeast
  Iowa Resource Conservation and Development (RC&D) Council obtained
  $105,000 for Spectrum Industries, Inc to provide quality vocational training.
  Spectrum Industries, Inc., is a wood workshop serving over 135 physically and
  mentally challenged people from throughout the Northeast Iowa and Southern
  Minnesota area. This project has provided quality jobs for persons with
  disabilities, added value to the lower quality hardwoods in the area, and
  provided a model that can be replicated anywhere in the United States. The goal
  of Spectrum Industries is to have this woodworking program continue to grow in
  ways that allow individuals to move into competitive jobs, and provide high
  quality products. The RC&D Council worked with many different partners to
  implement the project. The overall value of the project including grant funds,
  matching funds, and in-kind contribution is estimated at $300,000 dollars. The
  Central Mississippi RC&D Council, City of Carthage, NRCS, MS Department
  of Environmental Quality, and a group of consulting engineers teamed up to
  help the City of Carthage meet current water quality standards for the State of
  Mississippi. Carthage has a population
  of4,300and a watershed that drains into the Pearl River. Wastewater treatment
  for the city was inadequate to meet new water quality standards. Expensive
  options were provided that were not feasible for a small rural town. Traditional
  methods needed to meet new water quality standards for the city were estimated
  to cost $1.8 million, resulting in increased taxes for the local citizens. Through
  assistance from the Central Mississippi RC&D Council, another cost- effective
  alternative was provided to the city. The alternative was a natural wastewater
  treatment system costing approximately $650,000. This system saved the town
  more than $1.1 million and provides clean water releases into the Pearl River.
  The Erie Basin RC&D Council in Ohio has been managing a Revolving Loan
  Fund for several years. The success of this ongoing project has resulted in three
  other RC&D Areas in Ohio establishing revolving loan funds to serve the
  citizens in their areas. These revolving loan funds provide money to new and
  existing businesses primarily in the area of natural resource development. They
  are designed to create private sector job opportunities and to boost the economy
  of an area. Partnerships were established with USDA Rural Development, local
  planning agencies and banks in RC&D areas. Loans have been made to a
  variety of businesses including a campground in Huron County for
  improvements which resulted in higher use of the facilities; a company which
  recycles 1,000,000 pounds of plastic a week which would otherwise be headed
  for the landfill; and a charter boat service on Lake Erie which is equipped to
  handle physically and mentally disadvantaged individuals. These loans have
  helped businesses in the RC&D areas and have helped create new jobs. This is a
  project that can be easily duplicated throughout the country. In Pennsylvania
