  NRCS, along with seven RC&D Councils, local Conservation Districts, the             
  Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection (DEP), and 27                   
  landowners collaborated with solar component suppliers to demonstrate the use       
  of photovoltaic (PV) solar technology on livestock farms. Twenty-seven solar        
  pump systems were installed on a variety of livestock operations. The primary       
  objective was to advance the concept of intensive rotational grazing and reduce     
  the need for mechanical harvesting and its inherent consumption of fossil fuels.    
  Water is available on most Pennsylvania farms, but it is seldom located where it    
  will support properly designed and managed grazing systems. Therefore it must       
  be moved via pipelines using either gravity or mechanical means. Water for use      
  in most rotational grazing systems in Pennsylvania generally needs to be            
  pumped. Since most under-utilized grazing lands are often very remote and at        
  great distances from grid-power sources, alternative energy sources must be used    
  to power the pumps. Solar arrays proved to be very durable and dependable for       
  production of power to pump water despite Pennsylvania's intermittent overcast      
  skies. It was found that solar power is a cost effective and a viable alternative to
  conventional power sources for water pumping in remote areas if it is properly      
  designed, installed, and maintained.                                                
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Proposals for projects are judged on relevance of the project to the individual     
  RC&D's area plan goals and objectives. Criteria for setting priorities are usually  
  published in the RC&D area plan or are available from the local sponsors of the     
  RC&D area. Proposals for projects should be submitted to the local USDA             
  designated RC&D area. If an area does not exist, contact the field or state office  
  of the Natural Resources Conservation Service.                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
10.902 SOIL AND WATER CONSERVATION                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                               
  AGRICULTURE                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act of 1936, as amended, Public            
  Law 74-46, 16 U.S.C. 590 a-f.                                                       
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To help people conserve, improve, and sustain our natural resources and             
  environment.                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Advisory Services and Counseling.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Technical assistance to the general public in planning and applying natural         
  resource conservation practices, systems, and treatment; and furnishing technical   
  natural resource conservation information to State and local governments.           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Land users, Land owners, Community organizations State governments and local

  governments. Resource assistance needed is usually reviewed with the                
  conservation district governing body. Individuals and groups may become

  cooperators with local conservation districts to which application for assistance   
  is directed. Applicants are also eligible in Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and   
  Western Pacific U.S. Trust Territories.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  General public, State governments, and local governments.                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Contact the local Natural Resources Conservation Service office in nearly all       
  counties. Preapplication coordination of this program is not required. This         
  program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110.                     
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Records:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                               
                                                                                 11-08
  12-1000-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 $634,320,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  NRCS provided conservation technical assistance to nearly 3 million customers,
  in fiscal year 2000. Of the customers assisted, over 347,000 were members of
  minority groups. As a result of these conservation planning services, a total of
  10.2 million acres of cropland and 10.8 million acres of grazing land were
  treated to the resource management system level (sustainable management). On
  4.2 million acres of cropland that had been eroding at excessive rates, NRCS
  technical assistance enabled farmers to reduce erosion to the tolerable rate or
  less, thus preserving the productive capacity of the soil. Overall, NRCS provided
  conservation planning assistance on more than 34 million acres of land in all
  uses and application assistance on more than 29 million acres.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  "Conquest of the Land," AIB99; "Soil Erosion by Water," AIB513; "Assistance
  Available from the Natural Resources Conservation Service," AIB345;
  "Controlling Erosion on Construction Sites," AIB347; "Community
  Improvement Through Resource Conservation and Development," PA1077;
  "Save Soil Systematically," PA1366. "List of Published Soil Surveys;" "Going
  Wild with Natural resource Conservation," PA1363; "Conversation Planning-
  You and Your Land," PA 1376, "Farming and Maintaining Terraces," LN570.
Regional or Local Office:
  State and local Natural Resources Conservation Service offices (see Appendix
  IV of the Catalog).
Headquarters Office:
  Jose Acevedo, Deputy Chief for Natural Resources Conservation Programs,
  Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box
  2890, Washington, DC 20013. Telephone: (202) 720-4527.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.054, Emergency Conservation Program; 10.500, Cooperative Extension
  Service; 10.901, Resource Conservation and Development; 10.903, Soil Survey;
  10.904, Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention; 10.905, Plant Materials for
  Conservation; 10.906, Watershed Surveys and Planning; 10.907, Snow Survey
  and Water Supply Forecasting; 10.910, Rural Abandoned Mine Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
10.903 SOIL SURVEY
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 74-46; Public Law 89-560.
OBJECTIVES:
  To produce and maintain up to date published soil surveys and other forms of
  soil survey databases of counties or other comparable size areas for widespread
  use by interested agencies, organizations, and individuals and to assist in the use
  of this information.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Soil surveys are for planners, environmentalists, engineers, zoning commissions,
  tax commissions, homeowners, farmers, ranchers, developers, landowners, and
  operators who use them to evaluate soil suitability for home sites, subdivisions,
  commercial and industrial sites, farms, wildlife and recreational areas, prime
  agricultural land, hydric soils, highly erodible lands, highways, and airports and
  to select and implement appropriate use and management of those soils.
Applicant Eligibility:
  All individuals and groups that have a need for soil surveys are eligible to
  receive these documents by contacting the local Natural Resources Conservation
  Service Office.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  All individuals and groups that have a need for soil surveys are eligible to
  receive these documents.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants may request information from the local office of the Natural
  Resources Conservation Service, Soil Conservation Districts, Extension Service,
  the State office of the Natural Resources Conservation Service, State
                                                                                    155
