  active participation by the community, which recommended a voluntary               
  floodplain buyout for an estimated 238 properties. Participating eligible          
  properties would be demolished and the floodplain returned to natural              
  conditions. While non-residential properties exist in the floodplain and are       
  eligible, emphasis will be to purchase occupied residences. Benefits of the        
  project include reduced flood damages, increased human health and safety,          
  better vector control, improved water quality, and improved air quality. (2) In    
  Tobesofkee Creek Watershed, Bibb County, Georgia, landowners and other             
  interested individuals in the watershed participated in identifying natural        
  resource concerns, including poor water quality, sedimentation in streams and      
  ponds, inadequate supplies of good quality water for livestock, excessive          
  cropland erosion, and poor pasture quality. An interagency interdisciplinary       
  team, led by NRCS, determined a number of sources causing the resource             
  problems. Five alternative watershed plans were developed: a No Action Plan, a     
                                                                                     
  Minimum Action Plan, a Moderate Action Plan, a Resource Protection Plan, and

                                                                                     
  a Recommended Plan. The Recommended Plan was eventually adopted, which

                                                                                     
  will address nutrient waste, air, soil, aquatic vegetation, and water quality, and

                                                                                     
  quantity concerns on 38 animal waste management systems plus land treatment

                                                                                     
  of 13,797 acres of eroding cropland and pastureland.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  Proposals are selected based on completion in a timely manner, cost

                                                                                     
  effectiveness, production of a deliverable, and merit.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
10.907 SNOW SURVEY AND WATER SUPPLY                                                  
FORECASTING                                                                          
                                                                                     
   (Snow Surveys)                                                                    
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  AGRICULTURE                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Soil Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act of 1936, as amended, Public           
  Law 74-46.                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide information on forthcoming seasonal water supplies from streams         
  that derive most of their run off from snow melt. To help farm operators, rural    
  communities, and municipalities use water- supply forecasts in managing water      
  resources. To provide hydrometeorological data for regulating reservoir storage    
  and managing stream flow. To provide soil moisture/temperature and climate         
  data to support drought assessment, fire hazard assessment, wildlife               
  management and climate change research. To obtain, evaluate and disseminate        
  climate data in support of NRCS conservation activities including models.          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Dissemination of Technical Information.                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  The information is used by the owners and operators of the 30,000,000 irrigated

  acres in the mountain States, and the far West. The data are also used in          
  administering international and interstate river flow distribution contracts and   
  agreements, and in the regulation of hundreds of small and large reservoirs for

  irrigation, flood control, power generation, recreation, industry, and municipal   
  supplies. The data are also used for drought, flood, fire, and climate assessments.
  Cooperators include other Federal agencies, State agencies, municipalities,        
  irrigation districts, water associations and private utilities, and water          
  management officials of Canada and Mexico.                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  General public, including those located in the U.S. Territories.                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  General public, including those located in the U.S. Territories.                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Individuals can make requests for reports from NRCS Field and State offices        
  that issued them, and from the NRCS National Water and Climate Center at           
  Portland, OR.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Renewals:

                                                                                     
  Not applicable.

                                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                     
  Not applicable.

                                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Not applicable.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  12-1000-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 $10,848,700; FY 08 est $10,760,000; and FY 09
  est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Daily snow and precipitation data is gathered from 675 automated Snow
  Telemetry (SNOTEL) sites and 1150 manual snow courses in West U.S. and
  Alaska. These data and 11,534 forecasts of seasonal volume stream flows at 575
  stream gaging points are provided to water users via the internet address
  "http://www.wcc.nrcs.usda.gov". Climate analyses are performed for soil surveys
  (40 narratives per year) and for wetland determination (6,700 WETS tables)
  nationally. Soil moisture analysis has been done to more effectively evaluate
  potential runoff conditions and for drought and flood potential.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Snow Surveys, AIB 536.
Regional or Local Office:
  State and local offices of the Natural Resources Conservation Service in Alaska,
  Arizona, California, Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon,
  Utah, Washington, Wyoming, and the National Water & Climate Center,
  Portland, OR. See Appendix IV of the Catalog for addresses. California's
  Department of Water Resources, which coordinates and issues snow surveys for
  that State, and the British Columbia Department of Lands, Forests and Water
  Resources, supply data for the monthly west-wide summaries.
Headquarters Office:
  Deputy Chief for Science and Technology Natural Resources Conservation
  Service, Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013.
  Telephone: (202) 720-4630. FTS is not available.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.902, Soil and Water Conservation; 10.904, Watershed Protection and Flood
  Prevention.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
10.910 RURAL ABANDONED MINE PROGRAM
   (RAMP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Surface Mining Control and Reclamation Act of 1977, Section 406, Public Law
  95-87, 91 Stat. 460, 30 U.S.C. 1236; Abandoned Mine Reclamation Act of
  1990; Energy Policy Act of 1992.
OBJECTIVES:
  To protect people and the environment from the adverse effects of past coal
  mining practices, and to promote the development of soil and water resources of
  unreclaimed mined lands.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Cost-share funds are available only for conservation practices determined to be
  needed for the reclamation, conservation, and development of up to 320 acres
  per owner of rural abandoned coal mine land or lands and waters affected by
  coal mining activities.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Individuals, groups, or units of government who own or control the surface or
  water rights of abandoned coal land or lands, and water affected by coal mining
  practices before August 3, 1977. These areas are not eligible if: (1) There is
  continuing reclamation responsibility on the part of the mine operator or the
  State; (2) the lands are in Federal ownerships; and (3) the surface rights are
  under easement or lease to be remained.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Individuals, group, or units of government who own or control the surface or
  water rights of abandoned coal land or lands, and water affected by coal mining
  practices before August 3, 1977. These areas are not eligible if: (1) There is
  continuing reclamation responsibility on the part of the mine operator or the
                                                                                159
