  State; (2) the lands are in Federal ownerships; and (3) the surface rights are      
  under easement or lease to be remained.                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Participants must furnish proof of ownership or management control for the          
  contract period and written consent of the landowner, if not the owner.             
  Participants are responsible for completing an application for assistance that      
  includes statement of financial burden. This program is excluded from coverage      
  under OMB Circular No. A-87.                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB Circular            
  No. A-102.                                                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applicants requests program assistance on Form SCS LTP-156, through the             
  local office of the Natural Resources Conservation Service or conservation          
  district. Applicants must develop, with the assistance of NRCS, a reclamation       
  plan as a basis for program assistance. This program is excluded from coverage      
  under OMB Circular No. A-110.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Participants must sign a 5 to 10 year contract based on the reclamation plan to     
  receive cost sharing. Cost payments may be made directly to the applicant or the    
  contractor upon satisfactory completion of identifiable units of work. Approval     
  of contracts are made by the Chief of NRCS, State conservationist, or               
  contracting officer depending upon dollar amount of contract. Reclamation work      
  contained in RAMP contracts may be performed under an NRCS awarded                  
  contract or by the participant.                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  If fully operational, NRCS announces, through local media, dates and deadlines      
  for applications.                                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Variable, no specified time. Approval will depend on volume of applications

  received, available funds, and priority assigned by reclamation committee and       
  complexity of the reclamation project.

Appeals:

                                                                                      
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:

  Eligible applicants may re-apply for program assistance in accordance with          
  program funding priorities. Subject to a 320-acre limitation per owner.             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Allotments of Rural Abandoned Mine Program funds to NRCS State                      
  conservationists are to reflect the national program needs; the geographic areas    
  from which funds were derived; the funding priority assigned to applications for    
  program assistance, including benefits expected to be derived; and, the             
  practicability and feasibility of the reclamation work proposed. For 120 acres or   
  less, the Federal cost-share rate for applying land use and conservation treatment  
  may be up to 80 percent, depending upon the income producing potential of the       
  land after reclamation. However, this rate may be increased to a level required to  
  obtain participation when the main benefits of reclamation accrue to the public     
  and there is a declaration of financial burden. For acreage in excess of 120 acres, 
  up to 320 acres maximum, the cost-share rate is reduced proportionately by up       
  to 0.25 percent per acre. The Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation           
  Service may establish specific rates according to the above criteria. Cost-share    
  rates will range from 25 to 100 percent.                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Contract period is not less than 5 or not more than 10 years.                       
Reports:                                                                              
  No reports. NRCS and applicant make a status review that includes maintenance       
  of completed items, need for deletion or addition of contract items, and as         
  appropriate, the need to reschedule installation of practices.                      
Audits:                                                                               
  NRCS makes periodic, random on-site reviews of the quantity and quality of the      
  application and maintenance of scheduled items. Program activities are subject      
  to audit by the Office of Inspector General, USDA.                                  
Records:                                                                              
  Recipients should retain the reclamation plan contract, subsequent                  
  correspondence and transactions, because they will be held accountable for its      
  implementation.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                               
  14-5015-0-2-302.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (From carryover funds) (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not               
  reported. (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not             
  reported.                                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  As of September 30, 2001, there are 20 active contracts with cost share practices   
  valued in excess of $255,000 remaining to be implemented.                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  7 CFR 632, available from the Government Printing Office; RAMP operating            
  procedures, and RAMP environmental impact statements are available from             


160                                                                             11-08

  NRCS State and National headquarters offices.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Natural Resources Conservation Service State offices listed in Appendix IV
  of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Deputy Chief for Programs, Natural Resources Conservation Service,
  Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013. Telephone:
  (202) 720-1873.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A 70 acre site near a small community exposed approximately 125 residents to
  health and safety hazards. Reclamation includes eliminating subsidence holes
  through filling and grading to eliminate dangerous water pits and illegal trash
  dumps; surface water control; wildlife plantings; firebreaks; fencing for
  exclusion of grazing animals; and stabilizing the site by planting pine seedlings.
  A 40 acre site near a small borough presented a constant hazard to life and
  property. Reclamation consists of shaping and stabilization of eroding and
  unsightly "refuse" piles; disposal of "red dog" boulders; removal of a hazardous
  tipple; filling open mine shafts; back filling to reduce height of "high walls";
  removal of acid debris and soil deposition in streams; establishment of
  diversions, rock and grass waterways; establishing permanent vegetation on the
  site; and stabilization of stream banks.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are selected based on the criteria specified in 7 CFR 632.12, which
  considers the effect on public health, safety and general welfare, the
  environment, and beneficial use.
10.912 ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY INCENTIVES
PROGRAM
   (EQIP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (the 2002 Act) (Public
  Law 107-171, May 13, 2002) re-authorized and amended the Environmental
  Quality Incentives Program, which had been added to the Food Security Act of
  1985 (the 1985 Act) (16 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.) by the Federal Agriculture
  Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (the 1996 Act) (Public Law 104-127).
OBJECTIVES:
  Provide technical and financial assistance to eligible farmers and ranchers to
  address soil, water, and related natural resource concerns on their lands in an
  environmentally beneficial and cost-effective manner. This program provides
  assistance to farmers and ranchers in complying with Federal, State, and tribal
  environmental laws, and encourages environmental enhancement. The purpose
  of this program is achieved through the implementation of structural, vegetative,
  and land management practices on eligible land. This program is funded through
  the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). NRCS provides overall program
  administration and management.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Technical assistance is provided for conservation planning, design and
  implementation of conservation practices for eligible participants. Financial
  assistance is provided for implementation of structural, and land management
  practices. Cost-share payments may be made to implement one or more eligible
  structural or vegetative practices. Incentive payments can be made to implement
  one or more land management practices. Fifty percent of the funding available
  for technical assistance, cost-share payments, incentive payments, shall be
  targeted at practices relating to livestock production.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Agricultural producers who face serious threats to soil, water, and related natural
  resources, or who need assistance with complying with Federal and State
  environment laws. A participant may be an owner, landlord, operator, or tenant
  of eligible agricultural lands. Limited resource producers, small-scale producers,
  producers of minority groups, Federally recognized Indian tribal governments,
  Alaska natives, and Pacific Islanders are encouraged to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  To be eligible the agricultural producers must be in compliance with highly
  erodible land and wetland conservation provisions and in compliance with the
  Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) payment limitations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence that applicant has control over land to be entered into contract and
  submits an acceptable conservation plan for the farm or ranch unit of concern
  that incorporates needed natural resource conservation practices and provide
