  either a social security number or individual tax identification number of all     
  proposed beneficiaries. Applicants claiming either limited resource producer       
  or beginning farmer classification may be asked to provide documents to justify    
  their claim. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.         
  A-87.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102          
  and E.O. 12372.                                                                    
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Program participation is voluntary. The applicant applies at the local USDA        
  Service Center on Form NRCS-CPA-1200. Applications may be filed at any             
  time during the year. The participant develops an EQIP plan of operations that     
  identifies what conservation practices they are proposing to implement.            
  Technical assistance, and cost-share or incentive payments may be provided to      
  apply needed conservation practices and land use adjustments within a time         
  schedule specified by the conservation EQIP plan of operations. A contract with    
  a participant may apply one or more land management practices or one or more       
  structural practices.                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  NRCS will give special consideration to applicants that address priority natural   
  resource concerns designated. Applications will be periodically ranked and         
  selected for funding based on locally developed ranking process. These criteria    
  can be found at http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/                                 
  eqip/EQIP_signup/2007%20EQIP%20Signup/2007_EQIP.html.                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 10 to 60 days.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  A participant may appeal any adverse determination to the FSA county               
  committee.                                                                         
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Conservation practices may be eligible for cost-sharing up to 75 percent of the    
  total cost of establishing the practice. Incentive payments can be made for land

  management practices in an amount and rate that NRCS determines is necessary

  to encourage a participant to perform the practice that would not otherwise be

                                                                                     
  initiated without government assistance. Limited resource producers and            
  beginning farmers may be eligible for cost-sharing up to 90 percent.               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  A 2002 Farm Bill EQIP contract expires one year after the last planned practice    
  is implemented but cannot be longer than 10 years. Obligations for assistance      
  are tied to the schedule for applying conservation practices included in the EQIP  
  plan of operations conservation plan used as the basis for the contract. Payments  
  are made when the participant and NRCS certify that conservation practice is       
  completed in accordance with NRCS standards and specifications.. Technical         
  assistance may be provided by a certified Technical Service Provider (TSP). The    
  participant may not engage a TSP prior to contract approval. This assistance will  
  be reimbursed based upon not-to-exceed rates. These payments will be made          
  after the services of the certified TSP have been provided in accordance with      
  NRCS standards and specifications.                                                 
Reports:                                                                             
  There are no reports. The Designated Conservationist reviews contract              
  administration annually during the length of the contract of completed contract    
  items and need for deletion or addition of contract items. Participants must       
  operate and maintain a conservation practice for its intended purpose for the life 
  span of the practice.                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  Natural Resources Conservation Service makes periodic random reviews of the        
  operation and maintenance of the contract items during the life span of the        
  conservation practice. Participants are subject to audit by the Office of Inspector
  General, USDA.                                                                     
Records:                                                                             
  Maintained in local NRCS office and Federal record centers for specified           
  number of years.                                                                   
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-4336-0-1-302.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $755,010,208; FY 08 est $758,000,000; and FY 09 est not             
  reported. (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $240,550,029; FY 08 est                    
  $242,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Cost-share and incentive payments are limited to a maximum payment limitation      
  of $450,000 for the life of the 2002 Farm Bill. Average contract payments are      
  estimated to be $15,400.                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Over 70,000 applications were received in fiscal year 2006. NRCS estimates that    
  it would require over $636 million to fully fund all of the applications received  
  last year. After NRCS ranked the applications based on criteria developed at the   


                                                                                11-08
  local and State level 39,030 contracts were approved with farmers and ranchers
  totaling over $787 million. It is estimated that these contracts will treat
  conservation resource concerns on over 20 million acres of farmland.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR Part 1466. Program is announced through news media and in
  announcements to agricultural producers, farm and ranch owners and operators
  in the county. Program manuals, handbooks, and leaflets issued by NRCS.
Regional or Local Office:
  For more information on this and other related conservation programs, consult
  the local telephone directory where your land is located for location of the
  USDA service center. For a list of NRCS State offices with telephone numbers
  and addresses, see appropriate Appendix IV of the Catalog. Information is
  available on the internet at http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/eqip.
Headquarters Office:
  John Dondero, Branch Chief, Environmental Improvements Programs, Financial
  Assistance Programs Division, Natural Resources Conservation Service,
  Department of Agriculture, PO Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013. Attn: Deputy
  Chief, Natural Resources Conservation Programs. Telephone: (202) 720-1986.
  Fax: (202) 720-4265.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.054, Emergency Conservation Program; 10.069, Conservation Reserve
  Program; 10.072, Wetlands Reserve Program; 10.901, Resource Conservation
  and Development; 10.902, Soil and Water Conservation; 10.904, Watershed
  Protection and Flood Prevention.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  No projects were funded at the time of publication.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications will be periodically ranked and selected for funding based on: the
  environmental benefits per dollar expended; the cost-effectiveness of the
  conversation practices; the environmental benefits derived; extent to which the
  contract will assist the applicant in complying with Federal, State, tribal or local
  environmental laws; whether the land is located in a priority area and the extent
  the contract will assist the priority area goals and objectives.
10.913 FARM AND RANCH LANDS PROTECTION
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Food Security Act of 1985, as amended, 16 U.S.C. 3838h and 3838i.
OBJECTIVES:
  To purchase conservation easements to limit conversion to non-agricultural uses
  of farm and ranch lands that contain prime, unique, or important soils or
  historical and archaeological resources.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are provided to purchase conservation easements in partnership with
  States, Tribes, or local government entities, or eligible nongovernmental
  organizations. The Federal share for any easement acquisition is limited to a
  maximum of 50 of the appraised fair market value of the conservation easement.
  A conservation plan is required for highly erodible lands enrolled under an FRPP
  easement. Conservation easements are perpetual easements. A contingent
  remainder right is incorporated in the conservation easement deed for the
  protection of the Federal investment. A failure of title would require the
  cooperating entity to reimburse the United States for the Federal share of the
  easement value.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any local or State agency, county or groups of counties, municipality, town or
  township, soil and water conservation district, or Indian tribe or tribal
  organization, that has a farmland protection program that purchases
  conservation easements for the purpose of protecting topsoil by limiting
  conversion to non- agricultural uses of land, and that has pending offers may
  apply for funds. This program is available in all 50 States, Puerto Rico, the
  Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoas, the Mariana Islands, and the Trust
  Territories of the Pacific Islands. Individuals must apply through their local
  agency that handles purchase of development rights programs. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any local or State agency, county or groups of counties, municipality, town or
  township, soil and water conservation district, Federally recognized Indian tribe
  or eligible nongovernmental organization, such as a land trust, may apply.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Entities must provide documents indicating their commitment to long-term
  conservation of agricultural lands through legal devices, such as right-to-farm
  laws, agricultural districts, zoning, or land use planning; uses of voluntary
                                                                                     161
