  approaches to protect farmland from conversion to non-agricultural uses; and      
  their capability to acquire, manage, and enforce conservation easements.          
  Programs must have a systematic plan for acquiring conservation easements,        
  have a proven commitment to agricultural land protection, and sufficient funds    
  and staff to monitor and enforce conservation easements.                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  Potential applicants must submit documents to the appropriate State Office of     
  the Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS) and work with NRCS to           
  develop a statewide priority list. This program is excluded from coverage under   
  E.O. 12372.                                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Application information is included in a Notice of Request for Proposals          
  published in the Federal Register. It is available from the State Offices of the  
  (NRCS), the Federal Register, and USDA NRCS home page, and the Farmland           
  Information Library homepage.                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  NRCS State Offices work with the applicants to review their programs, evaluate    
  their priority lists, and award funding to applicants that have submitted parcels 
  that meet FRPP objectives.                                                        
Deadlines:

  Each year funds are available the deadline for applying is published in the

  Federal Register.

                                                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Indicated on the Notice of Request for Proposals published in the Federal

  Register.                                                                         
Appeals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Each cooperating entity is required to contribute towards the conservation        
  easement acquisition. For the cooperating entity, two cost-share options are      
  available when providing its matching offer. The entity must provide, in cash, at 
  least 25 percent of the appraised fair market value of the conservation easement  
  or 50 percent of the purchase price of the conservation easement. Each            
  cooperating entity is required to fund its own administrative costs in acquiring  
  easements, such as surveys or title searches, and costs incurred in managing and  
  enforcing the easements.                                                          
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Federal funds must be disbursed within two to five years after signing the        
  cooperative agreement. Technical assistance to maintain the conservation plan,    
  however, is provided by NRCS through the life of the easement.                    
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual reports on the status of the easements acquired will be prepared by the    
  cooperating entity and submitted to the NRCS State Office. Fund disbursement      
  reports are prepared by NRCS.                                                     
Audits:                                                                             
  An audit may be made in accordance with the Office of Management and              
  Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-102 Uniform Administrative Requirements for           
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and local governments and other        
  related Circulars.                                                                
Records:                                                                            
  Records of easements acquired will be maintained for the life of the easements    
  by the cooperating entity and NRCS.                                               
Account Identification:                                                             
  12-1000-0-1-302; 12-4336-0-1-302.                                                 
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Technical Assistance) FY 07 $2,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09       
  est not reported. (Financial Assistance) FY 07 $48,000,000; FY 08 est not         
  available; and FY 09 est not reported.                                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $2,700 to $1,000,000 per landowner. Average: $97,000.                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Not available.                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Notice of Request for Proposals, Federal Register, Volume 68, No. 64, pp.         
  16253-16258, April 3, 2003.                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  For a list of NRCS State Offices with telephone numbers and addresses, see        
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Farmland Protection and Community Planning Staff, Natural Resources               
  Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 2890, Washington,       
  DC 20013. Telephone: (202) 720-9476, Fax: (202) 720-0745.                         
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                    
  (1) California Department of Conservation's Agricultural Land Stewardship

                                                                                    


162                                                                           11-08

  Program; (2) Florida St. Johns River Water Management District's Georgia-
  Pacific Project; (3) Massachusetts Department of Food and Agriculture's
  Agricultural Preservation Restriction Program; (4) Rhode Island Department of
  Environmental Management's Farmland Purchase of Development Rights
  Program; (5) Vermont Housing and Conservation Board's Farmland
  Conservation Easement Program; (6) The Nature Conservancy; (7) Iowa Natural
  Heritage Foundation. The Farm and Ranch Lands Protection Program provides
  an opportunity to expand Federal partnerships with States, Tribes, and local
  government entities and nongovernmental organizations to protect farm and
  ranch land for future generations; to protect strategic agricultural land from
  conversion to nonagricultural uses; maintain, restore, and enhance ecosystem
  function; protect historic landscapes, scenic beauty, and open space; and sustain
  rural economic stability.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria used for selecting proposals are: The type and terms of easements, the
  use by a cooperating entity of a land evaluation and site assessment system to
  evaluate applications for their program, a programmatic process for systematic
  easement acquisition, evidence of a successful program, and the magnitude of
  the resources protected.
10.914 WILDLIFE HABITAT INCENTIVE PROGRAM
   (WHIP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996, Public Law 104-127;
  16 U.S.C. 3839bb et. seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  The objective of WHIP is to help participants protect, restore, develop or
  enhance habitat for upland wildlife, wetland wildlife, threatened and endangered
  species, fisheries, and other types of wildlife.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Technical assistance is provided to develop a Wildlife Habitat Development Plan
  for eligible participants. Cost-share payments may be made to implement
  wildlife habitat conservation practices. Up to seventy-five percent cost-share is
  available from NRCS to reimburse participants for installing conservation
  practices beneficial to wildlife.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicant must meet Highly Erodible Land and Wetland Conservation
  (HEL/WC) requirements, Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) requirements,
  verification that applicant will be in control of land for the duration of a
  contract. A participant may be an owner, landlord, operator, or tenant of eligible
  lands. Limited resource producers, small scale producers, producers of minority
  groups, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, Alaska natives,
  Pacific Islanders, State, county, or local government owned lands are encouraged
  to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  A participant may be an owner, landlord, operator, or tenant of eligible lands.
  Limited resource producers, small-scale producers, producers of minority
  groups, Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments, Alaska natives, and
  Pacific Islanders are encouraged to apply.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence that applicant has control over land to be entered into contract and
  submits an acceptable Wildlife Habitat Development Plan for the land unit of
  concern that incorporates needed wildlife habitat conservation practices. This
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102
  and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Program participation is voluntary. The applicant applies at the local USDA
  service center or found at http://www.sc.egov.usda.gov on Form NRCS-CPA-
  1200. Applications may be filed at any time during the year. The participant,
  With the Natural Resources Conservation Service develops a Wildlife Habitat
  Development Plan for the land unit of concern. The participant's plan serves as
  the basis for the WHIP cost-share agreement. Technical assistance and cost-
  share payments may be provided to apply the needed wildlife habitat
  conservation practices within a time schedule specified by the plan. A
  participant may apply one or more wildlife habitat conservation practices in a
  cost-share agreement.
Award Procedure:
  NRCS may designate a wildlife habitat type or a region of special wildlife
  habitat concern as a priority. The priorities are designated by the State
  Conservationist based on recommendations of local work groups which are
  convened by the local conservation district with advice from the State Technical
