  of the Natural Resources Conservation Service.                                    
Deadlines:                                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Receipt of the application is acknowledged as soon as it is determined to be      
  valid.                                                                            
Appeals:

  Not applicable.

Renewals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Federal funds may be available for 65 percent of the total rehabilitation project 
  cost, but shall not exceed 100 percent of the actual construction cost incurred.  
  The total rehabilitation project cost includes land acquisition, easements,       
  construction, and non-federal technical assistance and project administration.    
  The cost of technical assistance provided by the natural Resources Conservation   
  Service is not considered as part of the total rehabilitation project cost. The   
  sponsoring local organizations shall be responsible for the cost of all water,    
  mineral, and other resource rights, and cost of permits which are not part of the 
  total rehabilitation project cost. Costs associated with adding new purposes to   
  the watershed rehabilitation project may be cost-shared according to provisions   
  of the Watershed Projection and Flood Prevention Act.                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Continues until all works of improvement are installed or their installation is   
  terminated by mutual agreement.                                                   
Reports:                                                                            
  Annual operation and maintenance inspection and report.                           
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of States, Local    
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," which implement OMB Circular           
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and     
  Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of 
  $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific       
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 
  a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that      
  year, except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.                                              
Records:                                                                            
  Records of operation and maintenance activities are maintained for the life of    
  the project.                                                                      
Account Identification:                                                             
  12-1002-0-1-301.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Financial Assistance) FY 07 $8,262,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est   
  not reported. (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $7,038,000; FY 08 est not             
  available; and FY 09 est not reported.                                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  (per State) $0 to $6,451,000; $770,000 average per state.                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Not available at this time.                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Policy for implementation of this program is contained in the National            
  Watershed Manual and NRCS General Manual. Program fact sheets, case               
  studies, and guidelines are available from NRCS State Offices and can also be     
  accessed through the NRCS website (www.nrcs.usda.gov).                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  For list of NRCS State offices with telephone numbers and addresses, see          
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Watersheds and Wetlands Division, Natural Resources Conservation Service,         
  Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013. Telephone:        
  (202) 720-3534. http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  10.904, Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention; 10.906, Watershed Surveys      
  and Planning; 12.104, Flood Plain Management Services.                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Since 2002, Federal assistance for watershed rehabilitation has been provided on  
  72 watershed projects. This program provides technical and financial assistance   
  to State agencies and units of local government in addressing public health and   
  safety concerns with homes and businesses downstream from the dams. These         
  projects also reduce flooding and sediment damage some projects also include      
  the development of multipurpose facilities for such uses as recreation,           
  improvement of fish and wild-life habitat, irrigation, and water supply to        
  municipal and industrial users. Examples: watershed rehabilitation projects       
  protect public health and safety of residents in the communities of Gwinnett      
  County, Georgia (Yellow River Watershed); McKinney, Texas (East Fork Above        
  Lavon Creek Watershed); Ramon, Oklahoma (Double Creek Watershed), and             
  Carlsbad, New Mexico (Hackberry Draw Watershed).                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   


164                                                                           11-08

  (1) The existing watershed project must meet the requirements of the law; (2)
  operation and maintenance of the existing dam must be current; (3) the local
  sponsors must agree to carry out the watershed project including acquiring land
  rights, permits, local cost-share, and operating and maintaining the rehabilitated
  dam for the life of the project; (4) the project has environmental, economic and
  social benefits that exceed the costs for a favorable benefit-cost ratio.
10.917 AGRICULTURAL MANAGEMENT ASSISTANCE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF
  AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 133 of the Agricultural Risk Protection Act of 2000, Public Law 106-
  524, Section 524 (b).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide cost-share assistance to producers on private lands through contracts
  to construct or improve water management structures or irrigation structures;
  plant trees for windbreaks or to improve water quality; and mitigate financial
  risk through production or marketing diversification or resource conservation
  practices, including soil erosion control, integrated pest management, or
  transition to organic farming.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Eligible producers in approved states may receive cost-share assistance to
  construct or improve water management structures or irrigation structures; plant
  trees for windbreaks or to improve water quality; and mitigate financial risk
  through production or marketing diversification or resource conservation
  practices, including soil erosion control, integrated pest management, or
  transition to organic farming.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must have control of the land for a period of the contract running
  from a minimum of 3 years to a maximum of 10 years. The land must be in one
  of the 15 following eligible states: Connecticut, Delaware, Maine, Maryland,
  Massachusetts, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New York, Pennsylvania,
  Rhode Island, Utah, Vermont, West Virginia, and Wyoming. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Applicants must have control of the land for a period of the contract running
  from a minimum of 3 years to a maximum of 10 years.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence that the applicant has control over the land for the life of the proposed
  contract. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-
  87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Potential applicants must submit documents to the appropriate local NRCS or
  Conservation District office. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Application forms are available in USDA Service Centers and conservation
  district offices as well as in an automated format on the Internet on the USDA
  NRCS homepage.
Award Procedure:
  Participants must sign a 3 to 10 year contract based on the conservation plan to
  receive cost-sharing. Cost share payments are made directly to the applicant
  upon satisfactory completion on identifiable units of work. Approval of
  contracts are made by an authorized representative of the Commodity Credit
  Corporation (CCC).
Deadlines:
  Applicants may submit an application at any time during the year. Applications
  will be ranked at periodic intervals during the year. Applications that miss the
  current ranking cut-off date will be held and processed at the end of the next
  application ranking cut-off date, regardless of whether the cut-off date occurs in
  the current fiscal year or the subsequent fiscal year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Variable, no specified time. Approval will depend on volume of applications
  received and available funds.
Appeals:
  Any participant shall have the right to appeal final adverse or potentially adverse
  decisions made by NRCS.
Renewals:
  Contracts that are scheduled for less than 10 years may be extended up to the
  ten-year contract limit, in order for the participant to complete the practices
  scheduled in the contract. However, the participant must apply all practices
  within ten years of signing the contract.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Cost share payments shall be based on 75 percent of the cost of the eligible
  practice installed.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
