  Long term contracts of 3 to 10 years. Cost share assistance is paid when the       
  practice is performed.                                                             
Reports:                                                                             
  No reports. NRCS and the landowner or operator make an annual contract             
  status review that includes maintenance of completed contract items, need for      
  deletion or addition of contract items, and as appropriate, the need to reschedule 
  the installation of practices.                                                     
Audits:                                                                              
  Program activities are subject to audit by the Office of Inspector General,        
  USDA.                                                                              
Records:                                                                             
  The records for all expired or terminated contracts will be kept for 10 years      
  following expiration or termination of the contracts.                              
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-4336-0-1-302.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported. (Salaries and             
  Expenses) FY 07 $5,000,000; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported.                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Not to exceed $50,000 per fiscal year. Total cost share payments per the life of   
  the contract shall not exceed $150,000.                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Not available at this time.                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  7 CFR, Part 1465 regulations in the Federal Register, Volume 68, No. 68, page      
  17272, April 9, 2003; USDA/NRCS Internet homepage under Programs.                  
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  For a list of NRCS State Offices with telephone numbers and addresses, see         
  Appendix IV of the Catalog.                                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Financial Assistance Programs Division, _ Natural Resources Conservation           
  Service, Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013.           
  Dave Mason, Telephone (202) 720-1873, Fax: (202) 720-4265.                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  A State developed ranking process and ranking criteria will be used. The

                                                                                     
  ranking criteria will emphasize: the construction or improvement of water

                                                                                     
  management structures or irrigation structures; planting of trees for windbreaks

                                                                                     
  or to improve water quality; and mitigating financial risk through production or

                                                                                     
  marketing diversification or resource conservation practices, including soil       
  erosion control, integrated pest management, or transition to organic farming.     
                                                                                     
10.918 GROUND AND SURFACE WATER                                                      
CONSERVATION- ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY                                                  
                                                                                     
INCENTIVES PROGRAM                                                                   
   (EQIP-G&SW)                                                                       
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  AGRICULTURE                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (the 2002 Act), (Public         
  Law 107-171, May 13, 2002) re-authorized and amended the Environmental             
  Quality Incentives Program, which had been added to the Food Security Act of       
  1985 (the 1985 Act), (16 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.) by the Federal Agriculture           
  Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (the 1996 Act), Public Law 104-127.             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  Provide technical and financial assistance to eligible farmers and ranchers to     
  address water conservation natural resource concerns on their lands in an          
  environmentally beneficial and cost-effective manner. This program provides        
  assistance to farmers and ranchers in complying with Federal, State, and tribal    
  environmental laws, and encourages environmental enhancement. The purpose          
  of this program is achieved through the implementation of structural and land      
  management conservation practices on eligible land. This program is funded         
  through the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). NRCS provides overall              
  program administration and management.                                             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Technical assistance is provided for conservation planning, design and             
  implementation of conservation practices for eligible participants. Financial      
  assistance is provided for implementation of structural and land management        
  practices. Cost-share payments may be made to implement one or more eligible       
  structural practices. Incentive payments can be made to implement one or more      


                                                                                11-08
  land management practices. The funding available is for technical assistance,
  cost-share payments and incentive payments that will assist participants achieve
  a net-water savings on their agricultural land.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Agricultural producers who are addressing water conservation natural resource
  issues. A participant may be an owner, landlord, operator, or tenant of eligible
  agricultural lands. Limited resource producers, small-scale producers, producers
  of minority groups, Federally recognized Indian tribal governments, Alaska
  natives, and Pacific Islanders are encouraged to apply. Program may not be
  available in all States.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  To be eligible the agricultural producers must be in compliance with highly
  erodible land and wetland conservation provisions and in compliance with the
  Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) payment limitations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence that applicant has control over land to be entered into contract and
  submits an acceptable conservation plan for the farm or ranch unit of concern
  that incorporates needed natural resource conservation practices and provide
  either a social security number or individual tax identification number of all
  proposed beneficiaries. Applicants claiming either limited resource producer or
  beginning farmer classification may be asked to provide documents to justify
  their claim. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.
  A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102
  and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Program participation is voluntary. The applicant applies at the local USDA
  Service Center on Form NRCS-CPA--1200. Applications may be filed at any
  time during the year. The participant develops an EQIP plan of operations that
  identifies what conservation practices they are proposing to implement.
  Technical assistance and cost-share or incentive payments may be provided to
  apply needed conservation practices and land use adjustments within a time
  schedule specified by the EQIP plan of operations. A contract with a participant
  may apply one or more land management practices or one or more structural
  practices.
Award Procedure:
  NRCS will give special consideration to applicants that address priority natural
  resource concerns designated. Applications will be periodically ranked and
  selected for funding based on a State or locally developed ranking process.
  These criteria can be found at http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/eqip/.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 10 to 60 days.
Appeals:
  A participant may appeal any adverse determination to the FSA county
  committee.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Conservation practices may be eligible for cost-sharing up to 75 percent of the
  total cost of establishing the practice. Incentive payments can be made for land
  management practices in an amount and rate that NRCS determines is necessary
  to encourage a participant to perform the practice that would not otherwise be
  initiated without government assistance. Limited resource producers and
  beginning farmers may be eligible for cost-sharing up to 90 percent.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  A 2002 Farm Bill EQIP contract expires one year after the last planned practice
  is implemented but cannot be longer than 10 years. Obligations for assistance
  are tied to the schedule for applying conservation practices included in the EQIP
  plan of operations used as the basis for the contract. Payments are made when
  the participant and NRCS certify that conservation practice is completed in
  accordance with NRCS standards and specifications. Technical assistance may
  be provided by a certified Technical Service Provider (TSP). The participant
  may not engage a TSP for technical services prior to contract approval. This
  assistance will be reimbursed based upon not-to-exceed rates. These payments
  will be made after the services of the certified TSP have been provided in
  accordance with NRCS standards and specifications.
Reports:
  There are no reports. The designated Conservationist reviews contract
  administration annually during the length of the contract for installation of
  practices scheduled and maintenance of completed contract items. Participants
  must operate and maintain a conservation practice for its intended purpose for
  the life span of the practice.
Audits:
  Natural Resources Conservation Service makes periodic random reviews of the
  operation and maintenance of the contract items during the life span of the
  conservation practice. Participants are subject to audit by the Office of Inspector
  General, USDA.
                                                                                    165
