Records:                                                                               
  Maintained in local NRCS office and Federal record centers for specified             
  number of years.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                                
  12-4336-0-1-302.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $51,000,000; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported. (Salaries          
  and Expenses) FY 07 $19,093,000; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  An individual or entity may not receive, directly or indirectly, cost-share or       
  incentive payments under this chapter that, in the aggregate, exceed $450,000        
  for all contracts entered into under this chapter by the individual or entity during 
  the period of fiscal years 2002 through 2007, regardless of the number of            
  contracts entered into under this chapter by the individual or entity.               
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Thirty-two states located in the High Plains Aquifer, or areas severely impacted     
  by drought (according to the USDA Drought Monitor), or in areas with                 
  extensive agricultural water needs were targeted for achieving a net savings in      
  water consumption on agricultural lands. In FY 2006, producers entered into          
  2,023 Ground and Surface Water contracts on nearly 382,600 acres to improve          
  irrigation and water use efficiency on currently irrigated cropland.                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  7 CFR Part 1466. Program is announced through news media and in                      
  announcements to agricultural producers, farm and ranch owners and operators         
  in the county. Program manuals, handbooks, and leaflets issued by NRCS.              
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  For more information on this and other related conservation programs, consult        
  the local telephone directory where your land is located for location of the         
  USDA service center. . For a list of NRCS State offices with telephone numbers       
  and addresses, see appropriate Appendix IV of the Catalog. Information is            
  available on the internet at http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/eqip.                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  John Dondero, Branch Chief - Environmental Improvement Programs, Financial           
  Assistance Programs Division, Natural Resources Conservation Service, U.S.           
  Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013. Telephone:           
  (202) 720-1986. FAX: (202) 720-4265.                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  10.902, Soil and Water Conservation; 10.912, Environmental Quality Incentives        
  Program.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Applications will be periodically ranked and selected for funding based on: the      
  environmental benefits; the cost-effectiveness of the conversation practices; the    
  environmental benefits derived; extent to which the contract will assist the         
  applicant in complying with Federal, State, tribal or local environmental laws;      
  and the extent the contract will assist the priority natural resource goals and      
  objectives and achieve a net water savings.                                          
                                                                                       
10.919 KLAMATH BASIN - ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY                                           
                                                                                       
INCENTIVES PROGRAM                                                                     
      (EQIP-KB)                                                                        
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                
  AGRICULTURE                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (the 2002 Act), Public            
  Law 107-171, May 13, 2002 re-authorized and amended the Environmental                
  Quality Incentives Program, which had been added to the Food Security Act of         
  1985 (the 1985 Act) (16 U.S.C. 3801 et seq.) by the Federal Agriculture              
  Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 (the 1996 Act) (Public Law 104-127).              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  Provide technical and financial assistance to eligible farmers and ranchers to       
  address water conservation natural resource concerns on their lands in an            
  environmentally beneficial and cost-effective manner. This program provides          
  assistance to farmers and ranchers in complying with Federal, State, and tribal      
  environmental laws, and encourages environmental enhancement. The purpose            
  of this program is achieved through the implementation of structural and land        
  management conservation practices on eligible land. This program is funded           
  through the Commodity Credit Corporation (CCC). NRCS provides overall                
  program administration and management.                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Technical assistance is provided for conservation planning, design and               
  implementation of conservation practices for eligible participants. Financial        
  assistance is provided for implementation of structural and land management          
  practices. Cost-share payments may be made to implement one or more eligible         


166                                                                              11-08

  structural practices. Incentive payments can be made to implement one or more
  land management practices. The funding is available is for technical assistance,
  cost-share payments and incentive payments that will assist participants achieve
  a net-water savings on their agricultural land.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Agricultural producers who are addressing water conservation natural resource
  issues. A participant may be an owner, landlord, operator, or tenant of eligible
  agricultural lands. Limited resource producers, small-scale producers, producers
  of minority groups, Federally recognized Indian tribal governments, Alaska
  natives, and Pacific Islanders are encouraged to apply. This program is only
  available in the Klamath Basin of California and Oregon.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  To be eligible the agricultural producers must be in compliance with highly
  erodible land and wetland conservation provisions and in compliance with the
  Adjusted Gross Income (AGI) payment limitations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Evidence that applicant has control over land to be entered into contract and
  submits an acceptable conservation plan for the farm or ranch unit of concern
  that incorporates needed natural resource conservation practices and provide
  either a social security number or individual tax identification number of all
  proposed beneficiaries. Applicants claiming either limited resource producer or
  beginning farmer classification may be asked to provide documents to justify
  their claim. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.
  A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102
  and E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Program participation is voluntary. The applicant applies at the local USDA
  Service Center on Form NRCS-CPA-1200. Applications may be filed at any
  time during the year. The participant develops an EQIP plan of operations that
  identifies what conservation practices they are proposing to implement.
  Technical assistance and cost-share or incentive payments may be provided to
  apply needed conservation practices and land use adjustments within a time
  schedule specified by the EQIP plan of operations. A contract with a participant
  may apply one or more land management practices or one or more structural
  practices.
Award Procedure:
  NRCS will give special consideration to applicants that address priority natural
  resource concerns designated. Applications will be periodically ranked and
  selected for funding based on a State or locally developed ranking process.
  These criteria can be found at
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/eqip/EQIP_signup.html.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 10 to 60 days.
Appeals:
  A participant may appeal any adverse determination to the FSA county
  committee.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Conservation practices may be eligible for cost-sharing up to 75 percent of the
  total cost of establishing the practice. Incentive payments can be made for land
  management practices in an amount and rate that NRCS determines is necessary
  to encourage a participant to perform the practice that would not otherwise be
  initiated without government assistance. Limited resource producers and
  beginning farmers may be eligible for cost-sharing up to 90 percent.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  A 2002 Farm Bill EQIP contract expires one year after the last planned practice
  is implemented but cannot be longer than 10 years. Obligations for assistance
  are tied to the schedule for applying conservation practices included in the EQIP
  plan of operations used as the basis for the contract. Payments are made when
  the participant and NRCS certify that conservation practice is completed in
  accordance with NRCS standards and specifications. Technical assistance may
  be provided by a certified Technical Service Provider (TSP). The participant
  may not engage a TSP for technical services prior the contract approval. This
  assistance will be reimbursed based upon not-to-exceed rates. These payments
  will be made after the services of the certified TSP have been provided in
  accordance with NRCS standards and specifications.
Reports:
  There are no reports. The Designated Conservationist reviews contract
  administration annually during the length of the contract for installation of
  practices scheduled and maintenance of completed contract items. Participants
  must operate and maintain a conservation practice for its intended purpose for
  the life span of the practice.
Audits:
  Natural Resources Conservation Service makes periodic random reviews of the
  operation and maintenance of the contract items during the life span of the
