  conservation practice. Participants are subject to audit by the Office of Inspector 
  General, USDA.                                                                      
Records:                                                                              
  Maintained in local NRCS office and Federal record centers for specified            
  number of years.                                                                    
Account Identification:                                                               
  12-4336-0-1-302.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Grants) FY 07 $6,012,800; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported. (Salaries and      
  Expenses) FY 07 $2,346,700; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported.                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  An individual or entity may not receive, directly or indirectly, cost-share or      
  incentive payments under this chapter that, in the aggregate, exceed $450,000       
  for all contracts entered into under this chapter by the individual or entity during
  the period of fiscal years 2002 through 2007, regardless of the number of           
  contracts entered into under this chapter by the individual or entity.              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Not available at this time.                                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  7 CFR Part 1466. Program is announced through news media and in                     
  announcements to agricultural producers, farm and ranch owners and operators        
  in the county. Program manuals, handbooks, and leaflets issued by NRCS.             
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  For more information on this and other related conservation programs, consult       
  the local telephone directory where your land is located for location of the        
  USDA service center. NRCS, FSA, and many local conservation districts are           
  located in USDA service centers. For a list of NRCS State offices with telephone    
  numbers and addresses, see appropriate Appendix IV of the Catalog.                  
  Information is available on the internet at                                         
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov/programs/eqip.                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  John Dondero, Branch Chief, Environmental Improvement Programs, Financial           
  Assistance Programs Division, Natural Resources Conservation Service,               
  Department of Agriculture, P.O. Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013. Telephone:          
  (202) 720-1986. Fax: (202) 720-4265.                                                
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.nrcs.usda.gov.                                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.902, Soil and Water Conservation; 10.912, Environmental Quality Incentives       
  Program.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Applications will be periodically ranked and selected for funding based on: the     
  environmental benefits; the cost-effectiveness of the conversation practices; the   
  environmental benefits derived; extent to which the contract will assist the        
  applicant in complying with Federal, State, tribal or local environmental laws;     
  and the extent the contract will assist the priority natural resource goals and     
  objectives and achieve a net water savings.                                         
                                                                                      
10.920 GRASSLAND RESERVE PROGRAM                                                      
                                                                                      
   (Grassland Reserve Program (GRP))                                                  
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  UNITED STATES DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE NATURAL                                     
  RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE                                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  16 U.S.C. 3838n through 3838q.                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To assist landowners and others in restoring and protecting eligible grassland,     
  rangeland, pastureland and certain other lands through rental agreements and        
  easements.                                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  GRP easements and rental agreements are designed for working agricultural           
  lands. All participants are subject to the Adjusted Gross Income Provision set      
  forth in 7 CFR Part 1400. This limitation provides that individuals and entities    
  that have an average adjusted gross income exceeding $2.5 million for the three     
  tax years immediately preceding the year the contract is approved are not           
  eligible to receive program benefits, unless 75 percent of the adjusted gross       
  income is derived from farming, ranching, or forestry operations. Easements and     
  rental agreements will (1) permit grazing on the land in a manner that is           
  consistent with maintaining the viability of the native and natural grass, shrub,   
  forest, and wildlife species adapted to the locality; (2) permit haying, mowing, or 
  harvesting for seed production, except during the nesting and brood-rearing         
  seasons for birds in the area that are in significant decline; (3) allow for fire   
  rehabilitation and construction of firebreaks, fences, watering facilities and      
  practices that protect and restore the grasslands functions and values; and (4)     


                                                                                 11-08
  prohibit the production of row crops, fruit trees, vineyards, or any other
  agricultural commodities or activity that requires disturbance of the soil surface.
  Both easements and rental agreements will require that the land is managed to
  maintain the viability of the plant community as described in the conservation
  plan.
Applicant Eligibility:
  GRP is available on privately owned lands. Eligible land includes grassland,
  land that contains forbs, or shrubs (including rangeland and pasture land; or land
  that is located in an area that has historically been dominated by grassland,
  forbs, and shrubs; and has potential to provide habitat for animal or plant
  populations of significant ecological value. Incidental lands, in conjunction with
  eligible land, may also be considered for enrollment to allow for the efficient
  administration of an easement or rental agreement. Generally, forty acres is the
  minimum acreage that will be accepted unless USDA makes a determination
  that enrollment of a smaller parcel meets the purposes of the program and grants
  a waiver.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Only landowners may submit applications for easements; landowners and others
  who have general control of the acreage may submit applications for rental
  agreements.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Any owner or operator or tenant meeting eligibility criteria may submit an
  application for participation. Applications are accepted in local USDA service
  centers at any time. USDA will establish criteria to evaluate and rank
  applications for easement and rental agreement enrollment. Ranking criteria will
  emphasize support for high quality grasslands and shrublands; grazing
  operations; and plant and animal biodiversity; under threat of conversion.
  Individual project selection will be made by State level USDA officials. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applications are accepted in local USDA service centers at any time. Applicants
  are required to provide general information about the location of the project,
  contact information for the applicant, and designate the type of enrollment
  desired by the applicant (i.e. permanent or 30-year easement, 10-year, 15-year,
  20-year or 30-year rental agreement). Applications can be obtained through
  local USDA service centers or the website of the Natural Resources
  Conservation Service Office. See www.nrcs.usda.gov. Select Programs from
  the menu, then select Grassland Reserve Program.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  No application deadline. Applications are accepted through a continuous signup
  process. Individual State USDA offices of the Farm Service Agency and the
  Natural Resources Conservation Service Office may establish funding cut off
  periods.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Within a Federal fiscal year (October 1 September 30) based on funding
  availability.
Appeals:
  Applicants or participants may appeal decisions regarding this program in
  accordance with 7 CFR Part 614 and Parts 11 and 780.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Easement duration is either perpetual, 30-years, or the maximum duration
  permitted by State law. Financial assistance for easement acquisition is provided
  at closing. For rental agreements, payments are made annually on the agreement
  anniversary date of USDA approval. For both easements and rental agreements,
  if restoration activities are required, financial assistance for such activities is
  provided when required practices are established. Technical assistance is
  available for the length of the easement or rental agreement.
Reports:
  Not applicable.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  12-1004-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $12,671,100; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not reported.
  (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $3,236,000; FY 08 $0; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2003 USDA had available approximately $52,000,000 in financial
  assistance to allocate nationwide. The average estimated cost per acre for
                                                                                   167
