  easement acquisition was approximately $382. The average estimated cost per          
  acre for rental agreements was $134 per acre. In FY 2004 USDA has available          
  approximately $54,000,000 in financial assistance.                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  Not available at this time.                                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  None.                                                                                
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Local Service Centers can be found in the blue pages of the local telephone          
  directory under the heading USDA Service Center or through the office locator        
  assistance on the NRCS website found at www.nrcs.usda.gov.                           
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Thomas Christensen, Deputy Chief for Natural Resources Conservation                  
  Programs, Natural Resources Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture,         
  P.O. Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013. Telephone: (202) 720-4527. Use the              
  same number for FTS; Floyd Wood, National Grassland Reserve Program                  
  Manager, NRCS, (202) 720-0242 or Jim Williams, National Grassland Reserve            
  Program Manager, FSA, (202) 720- 9562.                                               
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  10.069, Conservation Reserve Program; 10.072, Wetlands Reserve Program.              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  None.                                                                                
                                                                                       
10.921 CONSERVATION SECURITY PROGRAM                                                   
                                                                                       
      (CSP)

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                
  AGRICULTURE                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Food Security Act of 1985, Title XII, Chapter 2, Subchapter A, of the Food           
  Security Act of 1985, 16 U.S.C. 3801 et seq., Public Law 99-198, as amended          
  by the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002, enacted on May 13,            
  2002, Public Law 107-171.                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The CSP sets forth a mechanism to provide financial and technical assistance to      
  promote the conservation and improvement of soil, water, air, energy, plant and      
  animal life, and other conservation purposes on Tribal and private working           
  lands. Working lands include cropland, grassland, prairie land, improved             
  pasture, and range land, as well as forested land that is an incidental part of an   
  agriculture operation. The goal of CSP is to identify and reward those farmers       
  and ranchers who are meeting the highest standards of conservation and               
  environmental management on their operations and to support ongoing                  
  stewardship of private agricultural lands by providing payments for maintaining      
  and enhancing natural resources.                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Eligible applicants may offer eligible land on a portion of their agricultural       
  operation to enter into a five year contract, or entire agricultural operation for a 
  five to ten year contract. Subject to the acceptance of an offer by the Federal      
  Government, the participant shall agree to participate as outlined in the CSP        
  stewardship plan and contract. The contract will include appropriate                 
  stewardship, new practice, existing practice, and enhancement payments.              
  Subject to the availability of funds, CCC will make stewardship, existing            
  practice, new practice or enhancement payments at the rates specified in this        
  contract after a determination by CCC than an eligible practice or activity has      
  been established in compliance with the CSP plan of operations and in                
  accordance with appropriate standards and specifications.                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  An individual producer, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, other  
  business or other legal entities controlling eligible lands. The term producer       
  means an owner, operator, landlord, tenant or sharecropper that shares in the risk   
  of producing any crop or livestock; and must be entitled to share in the crop or     
  livestock available for marketing from an agricultural operation. An applicant       
  must be in compliance with highly erodible land and wetland conservation             
  provisions, and average adjusted gross income requirements. Lands enrolled in        
  the Conservation Reserve Program, Wetlands Reserve Program, the Grassland            
  Reserve Program pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 3838n, public land including land              
  owned by a Federal, State or local unit of government are not eligible for           
  enrollment in CSP and may not receive CSP payments.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  An individual producer, partnership, association, corporation, estate, trust, other  
  business or other legal entities controlling eligible lands. The term producer       
  means and owner, operator, landlord, tenant or sharecropper that shares in the       


168                                                                              11-08

  risk of producing any crop or livestock; and must be entitled to share in the crop
  or livestock available for marketing from an agricultural operation. A
  participant must be in compliance with highly erodible land and wetland
  conservation provisions, and average adjusted gross income requirements.
  Lands enrolled in the Conservation Reserve Program, Wetlands Reserve
  Program, the Grassland Reserve Program pursuant to 16 U.S.C. 3838n, public
  land including land owned by a Federal, State or local unit of government are
  not eligible for enrollment in CSP and may not receive CSP payments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The participant must have control of the land offered for the length of the
  contract period. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An environmental impact assessment has been prepared for this program. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Conduct a CSP self-assessment and benchmark condition inventory, and submit
  an intention to enroll to the local NRCS office that serves the area in which the
  agricultural operation is located during the designated sign-up period. This
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-110.
Award Procedure:
  All applications which meet the sign-up criteria within the priority watersheds
  will be placed in an enrollment category regardless of available funding.
  Enrollment categories and subcategories will be funded in priority order until the
  available funds are exhausted.
Deadlines:
  NRCS will publish a CSP sign-up notice with a schedule for the sign-up process,
  including the deadline(s) for applying. At the beginning of each sign-up, the
  Chief will announce the order in which categories and subcategories are eligible
  to be funded.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 180 days after the application is filed with the NRCS.
Appeals:
  An applicant or a participant may obtain administrative review of an adverse
  decision. Participants cannot appeal payment rates, payment limits, and cost-
  share percentages, eligible conservation practices, or other matters of general
  applicability. Before a participant can seek judicial review, the participant must
  exhaust all administrative appeal procedures.
Renewals:
  The conservation security contract may be renewed, as appropriate, for an
  additional period of not less than 5, nor more than 10 years.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Payments may have as many as four components including a base conservation
  stewardship payment, existing practice payment, new practice cost-share
  payment, and enhancement payment. Payments will be made as described in the
  contract in return for the implementation and/or maintenance of a specified level
  of conservation treatment on all or part of the agricultural operation.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The schedule of payments will be specified in the conservation stewardship
  contract based on calculations identified in the rule and sign up notice.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  Recipients are subject to audit by the Office of Inspector General, USDA.
Records:
  Records will be maintained by the participant, as appropriate and in the county
  NRCS office, State NRCS office and Federal Record Centers for the length of
  the agreement.
Account Identification:
  12-1004-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $235,960,000; FY 08 est $287,752,900; and FY 09 est
  not reported. (Salaries and Expenses) FY 07 $23,310,000; FY 08 est
  $28,459,100; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Contract numbers and acres by year: 2006 - 4,323 contracts covering 3,648,100
  acres; 2007 - No sign-up.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The program is announced through news media, local conservation districts, and
  in letters to agricultural landowners in the county. Regulations published in the
  Federal Register and 7 CFR XIV.
Regional or Local Office:
  Consult the local telephone directory for location of the NRCS office. If no
  listing, contact the appropriate State NRCS office listed in the NRCS Section of
  Appendix IV. the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Dwayne Howard, Branch Chief, Stewardship Programs Branch, Financial
  Assistance Programs Division, Natural Resources Conservation Service,
