  Department of Agriculture, PO Box 2890, Washington, DC 20013. Telephone:           
  (202) 720-3524.                                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.                                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  10.904, Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention; 10.912, Environmental           
  Quality Incentives Program; 10.914, Wildlife Habitat Incentive Program;            
  10.917, Agricultural Management Assistance .                                       
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Not applicable.                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  All applications which meet the sign-up criteria within the priority watersheds    
  will be placed in an enrollment category regardless of available funding.          
  Enrollment categories and subcategories will be funded in priority order until the 
  available funds are exhausted.                                                     
                                                                                     
10.922 HEALTHY FORESTS RESERVE PROGRAM (HFRP)                                        
                                                                                     
   Healthy Forests Reserve Program (HFRP)                                            
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                              
  AGRICULTURE                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Title V of the Healthy Forest Restoration Act of 2003, 16 U.S.C. Sections 6571-    
  6578.                                                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assist landowners in restoring and enhancing forest ecosystems to: Promote      
  the recovery of threatened and endangered species, improve biodiversity, and       
  enhance carbon sequestration.                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  HFRP restoration agreements and easements are designed for working                 
  Agricultural lands. Easements and Agreements shall be maintained in                
  accordance with HFRP goals and objectives for the duration of the restoration      
  agreement and easement including the restoration, protection, enhancement,         
  maintenance, and management of habitat for listed species within a forest          
  ecosystem's functions and values. For the duration of its term, the easement       
  shall require, at a minimum, that the landowner, and the landowner's heirs,        
  successors and assigns, shall cooperate in the restoration, protection,            
  enhancement, maintenance, and management of the land in accordance with the        
  easement and with the terms of the HFRP restoration plan. In addition, the         
  easement shall grant to the United States, through the NRCS: A right of access     
  to the easement area; The right to permit compatible uses of the easement area,    
  which may include such activities as hunting and fishing, managed timber           
  harvest, or periodic haying or grazing, if such use is consistent with the long-   
  term protection and enhancement of the purposes for which the easement was         
  established; The right to determine compatible uses on the easement area and       
  specify the amount, method, timing, intensity and duration of the compatible       
  use; The rights, title and interest to the easement area as specified in the       
  conservation easement deed; and The right to perform restoration, protection,      
  enhancement, maintenance, and management activities on the easement area.          
  The landowner shall convey title to the easement which is acceptable to the        
  NRCS. The landowner shall warrant that the easement granted to the United          
  States is superior to the rights of all others, except for exceptions to the title 
  which are deemed acceptable by the NRCS.                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  To be eligible to enroll an easement or restoration agreement in the HFRP, a       
  person must: Be the landowner of eligible private land for which enrollment is     
  sought. Agree to provide such information to the Natural Resources                 
  Conservation Service (NRCS) as the agency deems necessary or desirable to          
  assist in its determination of eligibility for program benefits and for other      
  program implementation purposes.                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Only landowners.                                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Be the landowner of eligible land for which enrollment is sought; and agree to     
  provide such information to NRCS as the agency deems necessary or desirable        
  to assist in its determination of eligibility for program benefits and for other   
  program implementation purposes.                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Any owner meeting eligibility criteria may submit an application for               
  participation. Applications are accepted in local USDA Service Center Offices      
  during announced enrollment sign-up dates. USDA will establish criteria to         
  evaluate and rank applications for easement and restoration agreement              
  enrollment. Individual project selection will be made by State level USDA          
  officials. NRCS will identify through a sign-up notice process the geographic      
  scope and ranking priorities for that particular sign-up. This program is excluded 
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                    


                                                                                11-08
Application Procedure:
  Applications are accepted in local USDA Service Center Offices during
  announced enrollment sign-up dates. Applicants are required to provide general
  information about the location of the project, contact information for the
  applicant, and designate the type of enrollment desired by the applicant (i.e., 10
  year restoration agreement, 30 year easement or 99 year easement). Applications
  can be obtained through local USDA Service Center.
Award Procedure:
  NRCS will not acquire any easement unless the landowner accepts the amount
  of the easement payment which is offered by NRCS. The easement payment
  may or may not equal the fair market value of the interests and rights to be
  conveyed by the landowner under the easement. By voluntarily participating in
  the program, a landowner waives any claim to additional compensation based on
  fair market value.
Deadlines:
  NRCS will only accept applications for enrollment during announced sign-up
  periods.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Within a Federal fiscal year (October 1 September 30) based on funding
  availability.
Appeals:
  A person participating in the HFRP may obtain a review of any administrative
  determination concerning eligibility for participation utilizing the administrative
  appeal regulations provided in 7 CFR Part 614.
Renewals:
  The land offered may be re-offered in a future sign-up unless land or landowner
  is ineligible.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Lump sum or annual easement payments made in no more than 10 annual
  payments of equal or unequal size, as agreed to between NRCS and the
  landowner.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Restoration Agreements of 10 years, Easements duration is either 30-years, 99-
  years, or the maximum duration permitted by State law. Financial assistance for
  easement acquisition is provided at closing. For restoration agreements,
  payments are made annually on the agreement anniversary date of USDA
  approval. For both easements and restoration agreements, if restoration activities
  are required, financial assistance for such activities is provided when required
  practices are established. Technical assistance is available for the length of the
  easement or restoration agreement.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  Recipients are subject to audit by the Office of Inspector General, USDA.
Records:
  Records will be maintained in the county NRCS office, State NRCS office and
  Federal Record Centers for the length of the agreement. The easement (deed
  restriction) and applicable documents will be filed in the local land records
  office for the duration of the easement. Agreements are filed with the Agency.
Account Identification:
  12-1004-0-1-302.
Obligations:
  (Financial Assistance) FY 07 $2,351,300; FY 08 est $2,351,300; and FY 09 est
  not reported. (Technical Assistance) FY 07 $124,700; FY 08 est. $124,700; and
  FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2006 NRCS had $2.3 million available to fund the program in three states.
   The average estimated cost per acre for easement acquisition was approximately
  $1,048.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007 NRCS has enrolled approximately 196,000 acres in the program in
  Arkansas, Maine, and Mississippi.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The program is announced through news media and in letters to agricultural
  landowners in the county. Regulations published in the Federal Register (Interim
  Final Rule) and 7 CFR Part 625.
Regional or Local Office:
  Local Service Centers can be found in the blue pages of the local telephone
  directory under the heading USDA Service Center or through the office locator
  assistance on the NRCS website found at www.nrcs.usda.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Thomas W. Christensen, Deputy Chief for Programs, Natural Resources
  Conservation Service, Department of Agriculture, 14th and Independence Ave.,
  S.W., Room 5109-S, Washington, DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720-4527.
  Robin Heard, NRCS, Director, Easements Programs Division, Room 6819-S,
  Telephone: (202) 720-1875; Ross Lahren, NRCS, Branch Chief, Easements
  Programs Division, Room 6809-S, (202) 720-0123; Astor Boozer, NRCS,
  Healthy Forests Reserve Program Manager, Room 6813-S, Telephone: (202)
  720-1836.
Web Site Address:
                                                                                    169
