  http://www.nrcs.usda.gov.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.069, Conservation Reserve Program; 10.072, Wetlands Reserve Program;             
  10.920, Grassland Reserve Program; 10.913, Farm and Ranch Lands Protection          
  Program.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Maine is one of three states nationally where the program is available. The         
  primary focus of HFRP in Maine is to enhance the management of Spruce-Fir           
  and Northern Hardwood-Spruce forests to promote the recovery of the federally-      
  threatened Canada lynx and to enhance the biodiversity and environmental            
  quality using sustainable forests management practices. Maine developed three       
  contracts from fiscal year 2006 applications addressing 494,000 acres with          
  landowners who agreed to develop and implement forest management plans              
  which incorporate management guidelines specifically designed to benefit the        
  Canada lynx.                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The Secretary of Agriculture shall give priority to the enrollment of land that     
  provides the greatest conservation benefit to primarily, species listed as          
  endangered or threatened under 16 U.S.C. 1533; and secondarily, species that        
  are not listed as endangered or threatened under 16 U.S.C. 1533; but are            
  candidates for such listing, State-listed species, or special concern species. The  
  Secretary of Agriculture shall also consider the cost-effectiveness of each         
  agreement or easement, and associated restoration plans, so as to maximize the      
  environmental benefits per dollar expended.                                         
                                                                                      
10.923 EMERGENCY WATERSHED PROTECTION                                                 
                                                                                      
PROGRAM                                                                               
      (Emergency Watershed Protection (EWP) Program )                                 
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATURAL RESOURCES CONSERVATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                               
  AGRICULTURE                                                                         
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Section 216 of the Flood Control Act of 1950, Public Law 81-516, 33 U.S.C.          
  701b-1; and Section 403 of the Agricultural Credit Act of 1978, Public Law 95-      
  334, as amended by Section 382, of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and          
  Reform Act of 1996, Public Law 104-127, 16 U.S.C. 2203.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The objective of the EWP Program is to assist sponsors, landowners, and             
  operators in implementing emergency recovery measures for runoff retardation        
  and erosion prevention to relieve imminent hazards to life and property created     
  by a natural disaster that causes a sudden impairment of a watershed.               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  All EWP work must reduce threats to life and property and must be                   
  economically, environmentally, and socially defensible and sound from a             
  technical standpoint. NRCS may bear up to 75 percent (90 percent within             
  limited resource areas as identified by the U.S. Census data) of the construction   
  cost of emergency measures. The remaining 25 percent (10 percent within             
  limited resource areas) must come from local sources as cash or in-kind services.   
  EWP funds have restrictions. EWP cannot solve problems that existed before          
  the disaster or to improve the level of protection above that which existed before  
  a disaster. It cannot fund operation and maintenance work or repair private or      
  public transportation facilities or utilities. The work cannot adversely affect     
  downstream water rights and funds cannot be used to install measures not            
  essential to the reduction of hazards. In addition, funds cannot be used to         
  perform work on measures installed by another federal agency.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Public and private landowners are eligible for assistance but must be represented   
  by a project sponsor. Project sponsor means a State government or a State           
  agency or a legal subdivision thereof, local unit of government, or any Native      
  American tribe or tribal organization as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-   
  Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b), with a legal           
  interest in or responsibility for the values threatened by a watershed emergency;   
  is capable of obtaining necessary land rights; and is capable of carrying out any   
  operation and maintenance responsibilities that may be required. Sponsors are       
  also responsible for furnishing the local cost share and for accomplishing the      
  installation of work. Work can be done either through Federal or local contracts.   
   Emergency watershed protection is authorized in the 50 States, the District of     
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam,           
  the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Public and private landowners are eligible for assistance but must be represented   
  by a project sponsor. Project sponsor means a State government or a State           
  agency or a legal subdivision thereof, local unit of government, or any Native      
  American tribe or tribal organization as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-   
  Determination and Education Assistance Act (25 U.S.C. 450b), with a legal           
  interest in or responsibility for the values threatened by a watershed emergency;   


170                                                                             11-08

  is capable of obtaining necessary land rights; and is capable of carrying out any
  operation and maintenance responsibilities that may be required. Sponsors are
  also responsible for furnishing the local cost share and for accomplishing the
  installation of work. Work can be done either through Federal or local contracts.
   Emergency watershed protection is authorized in the 50 States, the District of
  Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam,
  the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and American Samoa.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Sponsors must submit a formal request to the State Conservationist for
  assistance within 60 days of the natural disaster occurrence, or 60 days from the
  date when access to the sites becomes available. Requests must include a
  statement that the sponsors understand their responsibilities and are willing to
  pay its cost-shared percentage as well as information pertaining to the natural
  disaster, including the nature, location, and scope of the problems and the
  assistance needed.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Each NRCS state office has developed and maintains an EWP Program
  Emergency Recovery Plan that contains procedures for implementation of
  emergency recovery measures should a disaster occur. This program is excluded
  from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Potential sponsors submit formal requests for assistance to the NRCS state
  conservationist.
Award Procedure:
  Project sponsors seeking EWP assistance must apply to the STC in writing
  within 60 days of the natural disaster occurrence, or 60 days from the date when
  access to the sites becomes available. Project sponsors may use SF 424
  Application for Federal Assistance but must ensure that following information is
  provided: (1) A description of the problems encountered; (2) Assistance needed,
  including the following: Nature of the problem; Location; Scope of the problem;
  Commitment by the sponsor to assume the following responsibilities: local cost-
  share; Land rights; acquisition; Permits; Operations and Maintenance (O and
  M), if required; A statement indicating that funds have either been exhausted or
  are insufficient to provide adequate recovery measures from the applicable
  hazards; A statement identifying any other State or Federal funding received or
  application submitted. On receipt of a formal request for EWP assistance, the
  State Conservationist or designee shall immediately investigate the emergency
  situation to determine whether EWP is applicable and to prepare an initial cost
  estimation for submission to the NRCS Chief or designee. The cost estimation
  will be submitted no later than 60 days from receipt of the formal request from
  the sponsor. NRCS may not commit funds until notified by the Chief, or
  designee, of the availability of funds. Before the release of financial assistance,
  NRCS will enter into a Cooperative Agreement with a sponsor that specifies the
  responsibilities of the sponsor under this part, including any required operation
  and maintenance responsibilities. NRCS will not provide funding for activities
  undertaken by a sponsor prior to the signing of the agreement between NRCS
  and the sponsor.
Deadlines:
  Potential sponsors have 60 days from the natural disaster occurrence, or 60 days
  from the date when access to the sites becomes available. The cost estimation
  will be submitted no later than 60 days from receipt of the formal request from
  the sponsor. NRCS may not commit funds until notified by the Chief, or
  designee, of the availability of funds. Projects must be completed within 220
  days from the date funding is provided. For exigency situations project must be
  completed within 10 days from the date funding is provided.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Timeline is dependent upon when funding is appropriated. The EWP program is
  not a line-item funded program and is reliant upon emergency supplemental
  appropriations.
Appeals:
  Only NRCS decisions relating to eligibility for the EWP Program can be
  appealed. These decisions may be appealed in accordance with 7 CFR Part 614
  and 7 CFR 11, as applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  NRCS may bear up to 75 percent (90 percent within limited resource areas as
  identified by the US Census data) of the construction cost of emergency
  measures. The remaining 25 percent (10 percent within limited resource areas)
  must come from local sources as cash or in-kind services.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Continues until all EWP Program recovery measures are installed or their
  installation is terminated by mutual agreement.
Reports:
  Final reports are prepared for each project once completed. A benefit and
  accomplishment report is prepared for the fiscal year based upon final reports.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations," which implement OMB Circular
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and
