  "2" or "7" and provides comprehensive data down to the county level on all          
  aspects of the agricultural economy.                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Agricultural Statistics Board catalog (annual listing of reports available by       
  subscription issued by Agricultural Statistics Board), no charge.                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Consult Appendix IV for addresses of National Agricultural Statistics Service       
  State Statistical Offices.                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  National Agricultural Statistics Service, Department of Agriculture, Washington,    
  DC 20250. Telephone: (202) 720- 2707. Use the same number for FTS.                  
  Contact: R. Ronald Bosecker, Administrator.                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.usda.gov/nass.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  10.153, Market News; 10.250, Agricultural and Rural Economic Research;              
  10.700, National Agricultural Library; 11.001, Census Bureau Data Products;         
  11.110, Manufacturing and Services; 17.003, Prices and Cost of Living Data.         
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  PROJECTS: Not applicable.                                                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                     
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
10.960 TECHNICAL AGRICULTURAL ASSISTANCE                                              
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE (FAS), DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  AGRICULTURE (USDA)                                                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as      
  amended, 7 U.S.C. 3318, 3319a and 3291; Food and Agriculture Act of 1977,           
  Public Law 95-113, September 29, 1977, as amended.                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To identify and apply the most appropriate solutions to international agricultural  
  problems and increase the capabilities of U.S. educational institutions and         
  nonprofit agencies in agricultural technical assistance and research.               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Cost-reimbursable and cooperative agreements are used to fund projects dealing      
  with various aspects of agricultural technical assistance. No funding is available  
  for unsolicited proposals.                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  U.S. institutions of higher learning, and public and private/nonprofit              
  organizations whose primary purpose is agriculture, natural resources               
  management and/or rural development (including those located in U.S.                
  territories).                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Technical assistance provided through these reimbursable agreements benefit         
  foreign governments and related agricultural institutions in their countries.       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-21, Cost           
  Principles for Educational Institutions and A-122, Cost Principles for Nonprofit    
  Organizations. This program is not subject to the provisions of OMB Circular        
  No. A-87, Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments.           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Notices of fund availability and requests for proposals with information on         
  requirements are disseminated through selected USDA agencies and land grant         
  universities. This program is not subject to the provisions of Executive Order

  12372, Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

  Submit requests for proposal packages, which include specific information on        
  requirements, to USDA/FAS/ICD/DRD (see below). This program is subject to           
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110, Uniform Asdministrative

  Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education,       
  Hospitals, and Other Non-Profit Organizations. This program is not subject to       
  the provisions of OMB Circular A-102, Grants and Cooperative Agreements             
  with State and Local Governments.                                                   
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Proposals are evaluated by a technical review panel, which rates the                
  qualifications of applicants and the merit of proposal.                             
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines are announced with the Request for Proposals.                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not available.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Extensions may be authorized.                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                     
172                                                                             11-08

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Assistance is phased according to the requirements of individual projects.
  Generally, cost- reimbursable and cooperative agreements are funded for
  variable lengths of time, depending on the technical assistance requested.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, which implement OMB
  Circular A-133, Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations, nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in a year in Federal awards will have a single or double program-
  specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements
  for that year, except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.
Records:
  Program and financial records are kept in the Department.
Account Identification:
  12-3200-0-1-352.
Obligations:
  (Reimbursable Agreements) FY 07 $7,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $30,000 to $600,000. Average: $160,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Programs currently include provision of technical assistance for expanding the
  use of effective program management concepts and technologies in developing
  countries to promote food security; guidance on natural resources management
  policy, procedures and techniques; trade capacity building; post-disaster and
  post-conflict reconstruction; and integrated approaches to international
  agricultural development and environmental protection.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 3015 and 3019.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Grant Pettrie, USDA/FAS/International Cooperation and Development,
  Development Resources Division, Washington DC 20250-1089. Telephone:
  (202) 690-1924.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fas.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Development of effective management concepts and methodologies for
  implementation of technical agricultural and environmental protection projects.
  Hurricane rehabilitation activities in Central America and the Caribbean,
  emphasizing watershed rehabilitation, food safety, and food security. Sound
  natural resources management, agricultural and environmental policy reform,
  and micro- finance for economic and rural development in developing countries.
  Strengthening of host government institutions in post-conflict environments.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are dependent upon identification of specific project requirements and
  program priorities determined by the Foreign Agricultural Service's International
  Cooperation and Development (FAS/ICD) program area and its collaborators,
  especially the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID). Contact
  FAS/ICD for additional information. While this program does not fund
  unsolicited proposals, interested parties are welcome to submit statements of
  capability and expressions of interest.
10.961 SCIENTIFIC COOPERATION AND RESEARCH
  (International Collaborative Research and Scientific Exchanges,
  Scientific Cooperation Program).
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as
  amended, 7 U.S.C. 3318 and 3291.
OBJECTIVES:
  To advance cooperation in areas of bilateral trade and market access, agriculture,
  animal and plant health, biotechnology, food safety and security, and sustainable
  natural resource management through long-term collaborative research
  worldwide and through short term scientific exchanges coordinated by USDA
  and the People's Republic of China's Ministry of Agriculture.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements); Direct Payments for Specified Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds under the Scientific Cooperation Research Program may be used for
  direct costs of conducting approved activities, such as travel for scientific
  exchanges and research associates, supplies, and equipment for research
