  projects. Funds may not be used to pay indirect costs, general communication,        
  clerical and publication costs, tuition, expenses solely for conferences or          
  sabbaticals, or salary for principal investigators. The Scientific Cooperation       
  Exchange Program supports USDA's Scientific Technological Exchange                   
  Agreement with the People's Republic of China for visits of teams in which the       
  receiving country covers all expenses for in-country travel and per diem for         
  visiting teams. Under this agreement, teams with a maximum of 5 scientists are       
  exchanged for up to 14 days per team. U.S. participants are responsible for their    
  international airfare between the U.S. and China, as are Chinese teams coming        
  to the United States.                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Proposals are accepted from U.S. scientists affiliated with a college or             
  university, a federal or state agency, or a private, nonprofit organization.         
  Proposals are especially encouraged from scientists early in their career, women     
  scientists, and scientists or institutions representing under- served and under-     
  represented communities. U.S. institutions include those in American Samoa,          
  Guam, the Northern Mariana Islands, Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands.        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Research and scientific exchange trade and market access, agriculture, animal        
  and plant health, biotechnology, food safety and security, and sustainable natural   
  resource management projects benefit both U.S. and cooperating countries'            
  college and universities, federal and state agencies, and private and nonprofit      
  organizations and their stakeholders.                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circulars A-21, Cost                
  Principles for Educational Institutions, A-122, Cost Principles for Nonprofit        
  Organizations, and A-87, Cost Principles for State, Local and Indian Tribal          
  Governments.                                                                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Requests for proposals are made through Grants.gov, a government-wide                
  internet portal for federal funding, at: http://www.Grants.gov under Catalog for     
  Federal Domestic Assistance Number (CFDA) 10.961 and the USDA Foreign                
  Agricultural Service website at: http://www.fas.usda.gov/. This program is not       
  subject to the provisions of Executive Order 12372, Intergovernmental Review         
  of Federal Programs.                                                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Program guidelines with detailed application procedures are available on the         
  internet through the USDA Foreign Agricultural Service website at:                   
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/icd/grants/scrp.htm or through Grants.gov, a                 
  government-wide internet portal for federal funding, at: http://www.Grants.gov       
  under Catalog for Federal Domestic Assistance Number (CFDA) 10.961.                  
  Guidelines are also available directly from the Foreign Agricultural Service's       
  Research and Scientific Exchanges Division, USDA/FAS/ICD/RSED/SCEP,                  
  Mail Stop 1084, 1400 Independence Avenue, SW, Washington, D.C. 20250-                
  1084. Applications may be submitted either electronically or as printed copies       
  by mail or hand delivery by the proposal deadline. Any changes to the deadline       
  or guidelines will be accessible on the internet through http://www.Grants.gov       
  under CFDA Number 10.961 or the Foreign Agricultural Service Web site at:            
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB           
  Circular No. A-110, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and               
  Agreements with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals and Other Non-           
  Profit Organizations and OMB Circular No. A-102, Grants and Cooperative              
  Agreements with State and Local Governments.                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Program staff members review and evaluate all proposals with the assistance and      
  advice of qualified U.S. scientists. Proposals are selected according to how well    
  they meet criteria that includes scientific or technical merit of the proposed       
  activity; suitability of the investigators and institutions; feasibility of achieving
  proposal objectives; relevance to priority issues in U.S. trade and market access,   
  agriculture, animal and plant health, biotechnology, food safety and security,       
  and sustainable natural resource management. Proposals are funded to the extent      
  permitted by available funds.                                                        
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Deadlines are announced with the Request for Proposals. Any changes to the           
  deadline or guidelines will be accessible on the internet through                    
  http://www.Grants.gov under CFDA Number 10.961 or the Foreign Agricultural           
  Service Web site at: http://www.fas.usda.gov/.                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Award and decline letters are expected to be sent to the U.S. Principal              
  Investigators within 60 to 150 days.                                                 
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Extensions may be authorized.                                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  The Scientific Cooperation Exchange Program with the People's Republic of            
  China operates under a receiving side pays arrangement with the People's             
  Republic of China. U.S. program participants, however, are responsible for their     
  international airfare. For long-term collaborative research projects under the       
  Scientific Cooperation Research Program, participating U.S. institutions are         


                                                                                  11-08
  expected to share a portion of project costs or arrange supplemental funding
  from other sources. These programs have no statutory formula or matching
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Short-term exchange visits with the People's Republic of China are limited to 2
  to 4 weeks. Long-term research project agreements range from 1 to 3 years, with
  funds provided annually.
Reports:
  Short-term exchange visits require trip reports. Long-term research projects
  require technical annual progress and final research reports. Financial reports
  are also required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, which implement OMB
  Circular No. A-133, Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations, nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in a year in Federal awards will have a single or program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.
Records:
  Records must be maintained for not less than 3 years after completion or
  termination of the agreement.
Account Identification:
  12-3200-0-1-352.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements and Direct Payments) FY 07 $830,000; FY 08 est not
  available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $5,000 to $45,000. Average: $20,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The global Scientific Cooperation Research Program, reflecting USDA and
  Foreign Agricultural Service priorities, has assisted U.S. scientists cooperating
  in 356 projects with partners in 85 countries to find innovative ways to help
  solve marketing and trade, food security, sustainable agriculture, and natural
  resource management problems of mutual interest since 1982. The U.S.
  Department of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture of China for 27 years
  have worked under the umbrella of the U.S.-China Science and Technology
  Cooperation Agreement. Jointly, we have advanced cooperation in areas that
  include food safety and security, agriculture, animal and plant health, bilateral
  trade and market access, biotechnology, and sustainable natural resource
  management. More than 1,700 American and Chinese scientists have not only
  exchanged technical knowledge, but built relationships that have helped foster
  political and economic collaboration, including trade. Each year, an equal
  number of teams are selected from each country to initiate linkages for long-term
  collaboration in the other country. l and subtropical climates where babesiosis is
  endemic. Without vaccination in some form, life expectancy of exported cattle is
  one to three months. New Mexico State University, an Hispanic Serving
  Institution, collaborated with Mexican scientists on research assessing the
  impact of insecticide use on target and non-target natural enemies of cotton.
  Iowa State University researchers are working with extension workers to
  implement results of collaborative research with New Zealand to reduce the use
  of stored feed through grazing corn crop residues which could save cattle
  producers in Iowa alone over $140 million each year. USDA's Natural Resources
  Conservation Service and Agricultural Research Service continues collaborative
  research in Mongolia to collect forage germplasm for preservation and use in the
  U.S. Similar research in China led to the participation of American Indian Tribal
  Colleges in Montana in a scientific exchange with China which emphasized the
  use of indigenous and traditional plants in restoration ecology. The University
  of California teamed with Korea's Rural Economic Institute to identify likely
  effects of the reductions in trade barriers to US agricultural exports of high value
  products such as beef, citrus, almonds and walnuts to Korea.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR Parts 3015, 3016, and 3019.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Susan J. Owens, Director, USDA/FAS/International Cooperation and
  Development, Research and Scientific Exchanges Division, Washington DC
  20250-1084. Telephone: (202) 690-4872.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fas.usda.gov/icd/grants/scrp.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  In fiscal years 2004 and 2005, 70 percent of the scientific exchange teams under
  the Scientific Cooperation Exchange Program with the People's Republic of
  China (SCEP) addressed critical agricultural market and trade-related concerns
  of both countries. Teams addressed food safety, the development and application
  of biotechnology, product development, and sanitary and phytosanitary issues.
  Priorities of other exchange teams included environmental and food security
                                                                                    173
