  problems. The 22 scientific exchanges of mutual importance selected for 2006          
  include food safety, animal disease eradication and control, and agricultural         
  policy. Projects under the worldwide Scientific Cooperation Research Program          
  collaborate with a diverse group of U.S. institutions building long-lasting           
  international research partnerships that remove technical trade barriers to           
  agricultural, forest, and fish products. Trade-related research projects include      
  the safe and appropriate use of biotechnology, and address the sanitary and           
  phytosanitary issues of food safety and animal and plant health such as avian         
  influenza, foot and mouth disease, and soybean rust. They also develop new and        
  improved agricultural products such as biofuels and more nutritious foods. and        
  other products using biotechnology. Researchers are introducing into legumes          
  drought tolerance traits to help reduce aflatoxin contamination, aid in water         
  management and reduce irrigation costs.                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Within the guidelines established for the Scientific Cooperation and Research         
  Program, proposals are evaluated on the overall scientific or technical merit of      
  the proposed activity; suitability of the investigators and institutions; feasibility 
  of achieving proposal objectives; relevance to priority issues in U.S. food,          
  agriculture and the environment; and potential for furthering international           
  cooperation.                                                                          
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
10.962 COCHRAN FELLOWSHIP PROGRAM-                                                      
INTERNATIONAL TRAINING-FOREIGN PARTICIPANT                                              
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  FOREIGN AGRICULTURAL SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  National Agricultural Research, Extension, and Teaching Policy Act of 1977, as        
  amended, 7 U.S.C. 3291; Food Security Act of 1985, as amended, Public Law             
                                                                                        
  99-198.

                                                                                        
OBJECTIVES:

                                                                                        
  To provide high quality training resulting in knowledge and skills that will assist

                                                                                        
  eligible countries meet the food needs of their domestic populations; and to

                                                                                        
  strengthen and enhance trade linkages between eligible countries and

                                                                                        
  agricultural interests in the United States.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                        
  Direct Payments for Specified Use.

                                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  No funding is available for unsolicited proposals. Cochran Program funds are

                                                                                        
  used for projects involved with international training activities, including course

                                                                                        
  development and/or evaluation.                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  The Cochran Program solicits proposals from U.S. institutions of higher

                                                                                        
  education, nonprofit organizations and U.S. agricultural trade and market             
  development associations.

                                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                                
  Technical assistance provided through these agreements benefit foreign

                                                                                        
  governments and related agricultural institutions in their countries.

                                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                        
  None. This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-21

  and A-122. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.

  A-87.                                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                            
  No funding is available for unsolicited proposals. The Cochran Program solicits

  proposals from U.S. institutions of higher education, nonprofit organizations and

                                                                                        
  U.S. agricultural trade and market development associations. This program is          
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                              
Application Procedure:                                                                  
  Applications solicited by the Cochran Program should include a scope of work,         
  budget, time frame and expected results. This program is subject to the               
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110. This program is excluded from                   
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102.                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                        
  All proposals are evaluated by technical specialists, which rate the qualifications   
  of applicants and merits of the proposals.                                            
Deadlines:                                                                              
  None.                                                                                 
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  None.                                                                                 
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  Extensions may be authorized.                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  None.                                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Assistance is phased according to the requirements of individual projects.

                                                                                        
Reports:

                                                                                        
  Training evaluation reports may be required.

                                                                                        
Audits:

                                                                                        


174                                                                               11-08

  In accordance with the provisions of 7 CFR Part 3052, "Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," which implement OMB Circular
  No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Government, and
  Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of
  $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audits requirements
  for that year, except as noted in 7 CFR 3052.
Records:
  Program and financial records are kept in the Department.
Account Identification:
  12-3200-0-1-352.
Obligations:
  (Reimbursable Agreements) FY 07 $1,500,000; FY 08 est $1,200,000; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $3,000 to $206,000 per project. Average: $19,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  This program currently includes short term agricultural and trade-related training
  programs for senior and mid-level specialists and administrators in such
  technical areas as food safety, biotechnology, sanitary and phytosanitary issues,
  agribusiness development and marketing. The program also strengthens local
  capacities in such commodity areas as dairy, livestock, poultry, horticultural
  products, grains, feeds and consumer ready products. The Cochran Fellowship
  Program trained 551 Fellows in 67 countries in FY06 and 706 Fellows in 70
  countries in FY07.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  7 CFR 3015.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Lynne Reich, FAS\Office of Capacity Building and Development, Cochran
  Fellowship Program, Department of Agriculture, Washington DC 20250-1031.
  Telephone: (202) 690-0880.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fas.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Short-term training in such areas as pest risk assessment, meat and poultry
  inspection, food safety control methods and regulatory systems, organic
  certification, HACCP, veterinary epidemiology, and dairy herd management.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Criteria are dependent upon identification of specific project requirements and
  program priorities developed by the Foreign Agricultural Service's Office of
  Capacity Building and Develoment(FAS/OCBD), in consultation with
  collaborating agencies and organizations. Contact FAS/OCBD for additional
  information. While this program does not fund unsolicited proposals, interested
  parties are welcome to submit statements of capability and expressions of
  interest.
10.994 PEANUT QUOTA BUYOUT PROGRAM
   (PQB)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  The Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 (2002 Farm Bill), Public
  Law 107-171, Section 1309, enacted May 13, 2002.
OBJECTIVES:
  To terminate the marketing quota program for peanuts and offer compensation
  to the peanut quota holders for losses in quota asset value. The 2002 Farm Bill
  repeals part IV of subtitle B of Title III of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of
  1938, thereby ending the quota system.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  None.
Applicant Eligibility:
  A peanut producer who owned a farm and was eligible for a permanent peanut
  quota for the 2002 through 2006 crop years.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Peanut quota holders.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The Secretary shall consider a person to be an eligible peanut quota holder if the
  person , as of May 13,2002, owned a farm that, also as of May 13, 2002, was
  eligible for a permanent peanut quota under section 358-1(b) of the Agricultural
  Adjustment Act of 1938 (7 U.S.C. 1358-1(b)), irrespective of temporary leases,
  transfers of quotas for seed, or quotas for experimental purposes. If there was a
  written contract for the purchase of all or a portion of a farm described above, as
