  of May 13, 2002, and the parties to the sale are unable to agree to the disposition
  of eligibility for payments, the Secretary, taking into account any incomplete     
  permanent transfer of quota that has otherwise been agreed to, shall provide for   
  the equitable division of the payments among the parties by adjusting the          
  determination of who is the eligible peanut quota holder with respect to           
  particular pounds of the quota. If the Secretary determines that there was in      
  existence, as of May 13, 2002, an agreement for the permanent transfer of quota,   
  but that the transfer was not completed by that date, the Secretary shall consider 
  the peanut quota holder to be the party to the agreement who, as of that date, was 
  the owner of the farm to which the quota was to be transferred. A person that      
  owns a farm with a peanut poundage quota which is protected under a                
  conservation reserve program contract entered into under section 1231 of the       
  Food Security Act of 1985 (16 U.S.C. 3831) shall be considered to be an eligible   
  quota holder with respect to the protected poundage.                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  There is no preapplication coordination related to this program. This program is   
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                           
Application Procedure:

  Applicants contact their local county Farm Service Agency Office or U.S.           
  Department of Agriculture Service Center for sign-up information. The signup

  period for PQB benefits was announced as beginning September 03, 2002,and          
  ending November 22, 2002. Because of heavy workloads in County Farm

  Service Agency Offices, it was difficult to enroll all eligible quota holders by   
  November 22, 2002. Notice DCP-55 was released to inform State and County           
                                                                                     
  Farm Service Agency Offices that the final date for signup for PQB was

                                                                                     
  extended to January 15, 2003.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Deadlines:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                     
  1 to 30 days.

                                                                                     
Appeals:

                                                                                     
  None.

                                                                                     
Renewals:

  None.                                                                              
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The amount of payment for a fiscal year to an eligible peanut quota holder under   
  a contract shall be equal to the product obtained by multiplying (1) $0.11 per     
  pound by (2) the number of pounds of quota with respect to which the person        
  qualifies as a peanut quota holder. The provisions of section 8(g) of the Soil     
  Conservation and Domestic Allotment Act (16 U.S.C. 590h(g)), relating to           
  assignment of payments, shall apply to the payments made under the contracts.      
  A person making an assignment of the payment, or the assignee, shall provide       
                                                                                     
  the Secretary with notice, in such manner as the Secretary may require, of any

                                                                                     
  assignment made.

                                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  The Secretary shall make payments under the contracts during fiscal years 2002     
  through 2006. The payments required under the contracts shall be provided in 5     
  equal installments not later than September 30 of each fiscal years 2002 through   
  2006. At the request of an eligible peanut quota holder entitled to payment        
  under a contract, the Secretary shall provide the entire payment amount for the 5  
  fiscal years in a single lump sum during the fiscal year specified by the eligible 
  peanut quota holder.                                                               
                                                                                     
Reports:

  None.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  Recipients under this program are subject to audit by the Office of the Regional   
  Inspector General, U.S. Department of Agriculture.                                 
Records:                                                                             
  Peanut quota holders or any other individual or entity receiving payment for       
  PQB shall maintain and retain financial books and records which will permit        
  verification of all transactions for at least 3 years, following the end of the    
  calendar year in which payment was received.                                       
Account Identification:                                                              
  12-4336-0-1-351.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Direct Payments) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not             
  reported.                                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  The eligible quota peanut holder is entitled to a payment of $0.11 per pound or    
  $220 per ton. The eligible quota holder is entitled to the number of pounds of     
  quota with respect to which the person qualifies under the 1938 Act taken in       
  conjunction with other factors such as quota transfers. Total quota pounds         
  cannot exceed 2001 crop year quota.                                                
                                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                     
  None. This is a new program.

                                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Program is announced through news media and in letters to agricultural             
  producers in the county. Regulations published in the Farm Security and Rural      
                                                                                     


                                                                                11-08
  Investment Act of 2002, Public Law 107-171, Section 1309, enacted May 13,
  2002.
Regional or Local Office:
  Farm Service Agency State Offices can inform applicants of county office
  locations where applicants may sign up.
Headquarters Office:
  U.S. Department of Agriculture, Farm Service Agency, Production Emergency
  and Compliance Division, Washing ton, DC 20250.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.fsa.usda.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  All producers meeting eligibility requirements may receive assistance subject to
  the national payment factor. Applications are non-competitive.
10.995 HARD WHITE WHEAT INCENTIVE PROGRAM
   (HWW)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  FARM SERVICE AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 1616 of The Agricultural Assistance Act of 2002, Public Law 107-171.
OBJECTIVES:
  The purpose of this program is to increase the production of both Spring and
  Winter varieties of hard white wheat during the 2003 through 2005 crop years.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  None.
Applicant Eligibility:
  To be eligible to receive the certified seed incentive payment, a producer must
  (1) Submit a complete application during the application period; (2) Submit a
  receipt for the purchase of certified seed to FSA. To be eligible to receive the
  production incentive payment, a producer must (1) Submit a complete
  application during the application period; (2) Produce hard white wheat of the
  quality required under Sec. 1413.106; (3) Have an interested buyer with the
  intent to use the wheat for all purposes except for feed use.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Producers of hard white wheat.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The applicant must certify to the total number and location of acres planted to
  hard white wheat and the number of eligible bushels sold. Applicants must also
  provide a settlement sheet, to Farm Service Agency (FSA) upon disposal of the
  production certified to on the application. Each applicant for a certified seed
  incentive payment must submit an acceptable seed receipt for the certified seed
  to FSA, and certify to the number and location of acres planted with certified
  seed. Producers requesting benefits under this part must certify to the accuracy
  and truthfulness of the information provided in their application. All
  information provided is subject to verification by FSA.
Preapplication Coordination:
  There is no preapplication coordination related to this program. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Signup for the Hard White Wheat Incentive Program shall be conducted by CCC
  for each of the 2003 through 2005 crop years during the application period
  announced by the Deputy Administrator. Applications are available from any
  county FSA office. Applicants must submit a complete application to FSA
  during the application period. The producer shall submit one application for all
  farms within in a particular county.
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
  Application period is announced by the Deputy Administrator. Applicants must
  submit a complete application to FSA during the application period.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  1 to 30 days.
Appeals:
  Any producer who is dissatisfied with a determination made pursuant to this part
  may request reconsideration or appeal such determination in accordance with
  parts 11 and 780 of 7 U.S.C. 7999; 15 U.S.C. 714b and 714c.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Payment for the production incentive shall be the product of the bushels
  determined in accordance with Sec. 1413.108 times $0.20. Payment for the
  certified hard white wheat planting incentive shall be the product of the number
  of acres certified on the application times $2.00 per acre. The maximum hard
                                                                                     175
