Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June          
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                     
  Organizations." Nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of             
  $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific         
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than            
  $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements        
  for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                               
Records:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  13-4512-0-1-376.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $66,700; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Published biweekly newsletters via e-mail and the Internet for the public.          
  Conducted occasional seminars on Census and other statistical resources, and        
  specialized workshops and training courses on Census 2000 programs and              
  products, Economic Census activities, American Community Survey programs            
  and products and other subjects. Both Census headquarters and regional office       
  staff participated in such conferences and workshops. Publication of guides,        
  pamphlets, and other reference material and sale of data products.                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Publication order forms for reports on data files resulting from census and         
  special surveys, no charge. Selected informational publications: Census Product     
  Update (biweekly online and e-mailed newsletter), no charge; information about      
  training courses, no charge; online electronic sales catalog site. Please contact   
  the Customer Services Center (301) 763-4636 for ordering information, or check      
   "Catalog" on the Internet site (http://www.census.gov).                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  See list of 12 Census Bureau Regional Offices at www.census.gov/field/www.          
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  For information about training opportunities, go to                                 
  http://www.census.gov/mso/www/training/index.htm or contact the Marketing           
  Services Office, Census Bureau, Washington, DC 20233. Telephone: 301-763-           
  4094. For free materials and ordering information for priced products, please       
  contact: Customer Services Center, Marketing Services Office, Census Bureau,        
  Washington, DC 20233. Telephone: (301) 763-INFO (4636).                             
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.census.gov .                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  11.003, Census Geography; 11.004, Census Intergovernmental Services; 11.005,        
  Census Special Tabulations and Services.                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                     
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
11.003 CENSUS GEOGRAPHY                                                               
      (Census Mapping and Statistical Areas)                                          
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  CENSUS BUREAU, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Act of August 31, 1954, Public Law 83-740, 13 U.S.C. 8.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide a computer generated set of maps for use in conducting censuses and      
  surveys and for showing their results geographically; determine names and           
  current boundaries of selected statistical areas; show these entities on a variety  
  of maps; develop geographic code schemes; develop computer files of area            
  measurements, geographic boundaries, and map features with address ranges.          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Provision of Specialized Services; Dissemination of Technical Information.          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The U.S. Census Bureau prepares base maps that are used in the planning and         
  conduct of its various censuses and surveys. The Census Bureau also prepares        
  for publication detailed maps showing States and State equivalents (i.e., the       
  District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and the several U.S. territories and             
  possessions), counties and county equivalents, Congressional districts, county      
  subdivisions, places, American Indian reservations, urbanized areas,                
  metropolitan areas, census tracts, block-numbered areas, blocks, and other          
  geographic units. Some of these maps show roads and other physical features,        


178                                                                             11-08

  others show only area outlines and related identifiers. The Census Bureau also
  issues U.S. maps showing boundaries (e.g., States and metropolitan areas) and
  sometimes data sets of maps. For the 2000 Decennial Census, an automated
  geographic data base, called the Topologically Integrated Geographic Encoding
  and Referencing (TIGER) system was used to generate maps, and other
  geographic products, including digital geospatial data files (TIGER/Line files).
  In addition, the Census Bureau, in conjunction with State, local and tribal
  governments, maintains records of changes in legally-defined areas, and delimits
  the boundaries of Census-defined statistical areas for use in the next Decennial
  Census, and develops geographic code systems that are used in the electronic
  data processing of the information.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Interested persons, organizations, or government agencies.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Interested persons, organizations, or government agencies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Not applicable.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  By written request.
Award Procedure:
  Not applicable.
Deadlines:
  Not applicable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), audits of states, local governments, and non-profit organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in federal
  awards are exempt from federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  13-0450-0-1-376.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $40,210,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable. The Census Bureau is only an "information source" and not a
  fund granting agency; i.e., our assistance is limited to helping people understand
  what data are available to use in their analysis.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Census Bureau maintains the MAF/TIGER data bases and related
  applications software to support the various censuses and household surveys
  managed by the Census Bureau with geographic products including geographic
  files and maps. Digital geospatial data, called TIGER/Line files, are available for
  the entire U.S. and its possessions. TIGER/Line files are available for the whole
  country from the Census Bureau's web site or on DVD. Additionally the
  MAF/TIGER data bases serve as the mapping base for many different
  automated, printed, and plotted map types required by the Census Bureau's
  programs. The Census Bureau's Internet site (address: http://www.census.gov/)
  includes mapping features and data displayed on maps, and PDF versions of the
  Census 2000 maps designed to be used with the data tabulations.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  The Census Catalog is available off the Census Bureau's homepage at
  https://censuscatalog.mso.census.gov/esales/start.swe. Please contact Customer
  Services, (301) 763-INFO (3646) for additional ordering information.
  Geographic information is available at
  http://www.census.gov/geo/www/index.html.
Regional or Local Office:
  See list of 12 Bureau of the Census Regional Offices listed in Appendix IV of
  the Catalog, or www.census.gov/field/www.
Headquarters Office:
  Geography Division, U.S. Census Bureau, Department of Commerce,
  Washington, DC 20233-7400. Telephone: (301) 763-1128 or e-mail:
  geography@geo.census.gov. For more information on maps and other
  geographic products, contact Customer Services, U.S. Census Bureau,
