  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  15 U.S.C. 171 et seq., Chapter 5, 1516, 22 U.S.C. 286f, 3101 et seq., Chapter       
  46.                                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA), a principal Federal statistical agency,      
  seeks to promote a better understanding of the U.S. economy by providing the        
  Nation with timely, relevant, and accurate economic data in an objective and        
  cost-effective manner. BEA's national, industry, regional, and international        
  economic accounts present basic information on key issues, such as U.S.             
  economic growth, regional economic development, interindustry relationships,        
  and the Nation's position in the world economy. Some of the widely used             
  statistical measures produced by BEA include gross domestic product (GDP),          
  personal income and outlays, corporate profits, gross state product, balance of     
  payments, and GDP by industry. These statistics are used by Federal, state, and     
  local governments for budget development and projections, the Federal Reserve       
  for monetary policy, by the business sector for planning and investment             
  purposes, and by the American public to follow and understand the performance       
  of the Nation's economy. BEA's strategic vision is to remain the world's most       
  respected producer of economic accounts.                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Dissemination of Technical Information.                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The statistics produced by BEA are used in the formulation and execution of         
  fiscal, monetary, financial, international trade, and other policies related to the 
  major economic goals of the Nation. Businesses plan production, price, and          
  investment programs with the aid of the information provided by BEA. This           
  information also is essential for economic decision-making by state and local       
  governments, labor, other economic groups, and by individuals who need a            
  better understanding in an increasingly complex economic world. In addition,        
  teaching and research programs at universities and research organizations rely      
  on the information provided.                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Any business, public official, civic organization, or private citizen may request   
  information in person, by letter, by telephone, or by E-mail.                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Any business, public official, civic organization, or private citizen may request   
  information in person, by letter, by telephone, or by E-mail.                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:                                                                
  Not applicable.

Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Not applicable.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Audits:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Records:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                               
  13-1500-0-1-376.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 $76,507,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09       
  est not reported.                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The Bureau of Economic Analysis (BEA) produces some of the Nation's most            
  important economic statistics including the gross domestic product (GDP),           
  international trade in services, personal income, gross state product, annual       
  industry accounts, and U.S. balance of payments. During FY 2005, BEA made           
  important improvements to the accuracy, timeliness, and relevance of the            
  Nation's economic accounts. As a result, the Federal Reserve Board, the White       
  House, the Congress, and Wall Street have more accurate data on such key            
  aggregates as economic growth, profits, productivity, and inflation. Tax            
  projections at the Federal and State and local level are based on more accurate     


                                                                                 11-08
  and up-to-date information. BEA increased the accuracy of GDP by
  incorporating information from the Census Bureau's new quarterly services
  survey and made substantial improvements to estimates of international trade in
  services, including incorporating the results from its own expanded quarterly
  surveys. BEA accelerated the release of the gross state product estimates and the
  2002 benchmark input-output gross output estimates, and produced GDP-by-
  industry estimates on a NAICS-basis dating back to 1987. BEA upgraded its
  dissemination efforts by enhancing www.bea.gov with a new search engine, e-
  mail subscription service, new interactive applications, and a customer
  satisfaction survey. These efforts have been recognized with the highest rating of
  effective by the Office of Management and Budget.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  BEA's estimates are available on the BEA Web site at www.bea.gov, in
  publications and CD-ROMs. The Survey of Current Business, BEA's monthly
  journal, presents summary estimates and analyses of U.S. economic activity. The
  Survey is available by subscription from the Superintendent of Documents, U.S.
  Government Printing Office (GPO): List ID SCUB, price $63.00 per year
  (domestic second-class mail), $88.20 (foreign second-class mail), or $105.00
  (domestic first-class mail); single copy price $25.00 (domestic) or $35.00
  (foreign). Foreign airmail delivery rates are available upon request from GPO.
  To order using Visa, MasterCard, or a GPO deposit account, call (202) 512-
  1800 or fax (202) 512-2250. To order by mail, send a check payable to
  "Superintendent of Documents" to Superintendent of Documents, P.O. Box
  371954, Pittsburgh, PA 15250-7954. To order on- line,go to the GPO Website at
  www.gpo.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Public Information Office, Bureau of Economic Analysis, Department of
  Commerce, 1441 L St., NW., BE-53, Washington, DC 20230. Telephone: (202)
  606-9900. TDD: (202) 606-5335. E-mail: webmaster@bea.gov .
Web Site Address:
  http://www.bea.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.001, Census Bureau Data Products; 11.110, Manufacturing and Services;
  17.003, Prices and Cost of Living Data; 17.004, Productivity and Technology
  Data; 17.006, Employment Projections Data.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
11.026 STAT-USA: KEY BUSINESS, ECONOMIC, AND
INTERNATIONAL TRADE INFORMATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  STAT-USA, ECONOMICS AND STATISTICS ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, 15 U.S.C. 4901 et. seq., 15
  U.S.C. 1527a.
OBJECTIVES:
  STAT-USA's objective is to provide the public with access to key business,
  economic, and international trade information in formats that are easy to use and
  located in a "one-stop shop." STAT-USA(r)/Internet is a single point of access
  for business, economic, and trade-related information from across the Federal
  government. STAT-USA/Internet consists of two main databases: 1) State of the
  Nation (SOTN), which tracks the direction of the U.S. economy and provides a
  repository for statistical releases of economic indicators from a number of
  federal agencies; and 2) Global Business Opportunities (GLOBUS) & the
  National Trade Data Bank (NTDB), which includes trade leads, exchange rates,
  extensive market and country research, and contact databases. USA Trade(r)
  Online provides access to U.S. merchandise trade data, offering current and
  cumulative export and import data on more than 18,000 export commodities and
  24,000 import commodities worldwide, and also includes port-level data. The
  annual historic data on USA Trade Online (UTO) are available from 1992 to the
  present and the monthly historical data are available from January 2002 to the
  present. UTO allows users to find existing and emerging export markets for
  products, compare specific product exports with related products, determine
  market share of export markets, and monitor trends in specific products,
  markets, and countries.EuroTrade Online(r) offers detailed and timely trade data
  straight from the European Commission's Commerce Exterieur database,
  Comext. The official statistics for the European Union (EU), EuroTrade Online,
  documents import and export data on a monthly basis at the 8-digit level of
  industry detail for the 25 EU member countries.Syndicate USA is similar to RSS
  (Really Simple Syndication) but more sophisticated and capable. This allows
  organizations to target subsets of STAT-USA's vast inventory of information and
  have this information pushed to them within minutes of the actual release.STAT-
  USA Paid Training is the newest service of STAT-USA. The training sessions
  cover the basics of STAT-USA/Internet and USA Trade Online and then delves
                                                                                  181
