  deeper into the functionality of both services, complete with practice exercises.    
  The classes can be tailored to specific interests. Statistical Abstract of the       
  United States, from the U.S. Census Bureau, is one of the most widely used           
  reference tools in the country and provides a wealth of data to help identify        
  trends that could affect businesses. The CD-ROM version takes those statistics       
  one-step further, allowing the customer to download and manipulate the tables to     
  meet their needs.                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Dissemination of Technical Information.                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Federal, State and local agencies, businesses, industries, educational institutions  
  and the general public use this statistical information. STAT-USA publishes          
  over 100,000 documents, which are updated daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly          
  and annually. Electronic re-dissemination of files or data from the STAT-USA         
  Products is prohibited without prior approval of STAT-USA. Please contact            
  STAT-USA for more information.                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Subscriptions to or single purchases of STAT-USA Products are available for          
  purchase by the general public.                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  General public.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Not applicable.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Not applicable.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Renewals:

  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Reports:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Audits:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                
Records:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Account Identification:                                                                
  13-4323-0-1-376.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  STAT-USA/Internet includes the National Trade Database (NTDB) and State of           
  the Nation (SOTN). The GLOBUS/NTDB contains over 120 program titles,                 
  including market research, country profiles, foreign business contacts, and          
  export "how-to" guides. Additionally, both SOTN and NTDB databases contain           
  libraries of current and recently released information (commonly referred to as      
  the SOTN Library and International Trade Library, respectively). In response to      
  user demand, STAT-USA/Internet includes information from non-federal                 
  sources such as the Institute for Supply Management and Cantor/Fitzgerald,           
  among others. Subscribers enjoy quick access to late breaking economic and           
  trade news from the Federal Government, and can keep abreast of important            
  release dates and opportunities. USA Trade Online, provides official U.S.            
  export and import statistics shortly after official release through an user-friendly 
  interface allows charting and graphing capabilities, ranking options, simple         
  calculation, and more. The website now provides port-level data. EuroTrade           
  Online (ETO) provides access to import and export merchandise trade for 25           
  major European countries. The trade data contains over 12,000 commodities and        
  is based on 8-digit Harmonized System classification structure. Syndicate USA        
  allows subscribers to select the most useful information in business, economics,     
  and international trade and have it delivered to them through various electronic     
  technologies. Paid Training helps subscribers to unleash the full potential of the   
  STAT-USA/Internet and/or USA Trade Online websites. The training can be              
  tailored to fit the subscriber organization's focus and interest areas. During these 
  sessions, the subscribers gain a deeper understanding of business, trade, and        
  economic resources from across the Federal government through a series of            
  practical hands-on learning exercises and case studies.                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Subscription prices are as follows: STAT-USA/Internet: Annual $200.00, single        


182                                                                              11-08

  quarterly $75.00; USA Trade Online: Annual $300.00, single monthly $75.00;
  EuroTrade Online: Annual $2,900.00, single monthly $1,015.00. Syndicate
  USA: A standard subscription is based on the volume of information
  transmitted, the frequency of the transmission and whether the information is
  electronically re-disseminated to external users. STAT-USA representatives will
  develop a price quote for an individual user or company. Training: DC Metro
  area: One-Day - $350 and Two-Day - $500; US: One-Day - $650 and Two-Day -
  $1,000; and International: One-Day - $350 (+roundtrip air fair) and Two-Day -
  $500 (+roundtrip air fair). Statistical Abstract CD-ROM: $50 (shipment to a
  U.S. address), $75 (shipped to a foreign address). For subscriptions, contact:
  U.S. Department of Commerce, STAT-USA; HCHB Room 4885; Washington,
  DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-1986 or 800-STAT-USA, Fax (202) 482-2164;
  E-mail statmail@esa.doc.gov or on the Internet http://home.stat-usa.gov.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Forrest Williams, Director, STAT-USA, U.S. Department of Commerce, HCHB
  Room 4885, Washington, DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-3429.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.stat-usa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.153, Market News; 10.950, Agricultural Statistics Reports; 11.001, Census
  Bureau Data Products; 11.002, Census Customer Services; 11.025, Measures
  and Analyses of the U.S. Economy; 17.002, Labor Force Statistics; 17.003,
  Prices and Cost of Living Data; 17.004, Productivity and Technology Data;
  40.001, Depository Libraries for Government Publications.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
11.106 REMEDIES FOR UNFAIR FOREIGN TRADE
PRACTICES-ANTIDUMPING AND COUNTERVAILING
DUTY INVESTIGATIONS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INTERNATIONAL TRADE ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Tariff Act of 1930, as amended; Trade Agreements Act of 1979; Trade and
  Tariff Act of 1984; Trade Act of 1988; Uruguay Round Agreements Act, 19
  U.S.C. 1339, 1516a, 1673-1673h, 1675-1677n.
OBJECTIVES:
  To protect U.S. industry from injury by U.S. sales of foreign merchandise at less
  than fair value and by unfair subsidies bestowed by foreign governments.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Provision of Specialized Services; Investigation of Complaints.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Antidumping Duty petitions filed by domestic industries are investigated.
  Should the Secretary of Commerce determine that dumping has occurred, and
  the International Trade Commission find the dumping to cause, or threaten to
  cause, material injury to the competing U.S. industry, special dumping duties are
  assessed against imported foreign merchandise entering the U.S. at less than the
  foreign market price. Countervailing Duty petitions filed by domestic industries
  are investigated. If the Secretary of Commerce determines a countervail able
  subsidy is being bestowed and the International Trade Commission determines
  that the subsidy causes, or threatens to cause, material injury to the U.S.
  industry, countervailing duties are assessed on imports of subsidized
  merchandise from the bestowing country. Duties are intended to offset the
  unfair competitive effects of dumping or subsidies.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any interested party, as defined by Section 771 (9)(C), (D), (E), (F), or (G) of
  the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended, who has information that merchandise is
  being, or is likely to be, imported into the United States at less than fair value or
  is unfairly subsidized by a foreign government, may communicate such
  information to the Import Administration, International Trade Administration,
  U.S. Department of Commerce. Domestic producers or workers who support the
  petition must account for at least 25 percent of the domestic production of the
  like merchandise.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Industries are eligible if they are being adversely affected by imports of like
  products that are the subject of a dumping or subsidy finding.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Petitions for the imposition of antidumping duties or countervailing duties must
  contain: The name and address of the petitioner with pertinent documentation;
  the names and addresses of all other known persons in the domestic industry; the
  names and addresses of all known foreign firms believed to be exporting the
  dumped or subsidized products to the U.S.; information relating to the degree of
  industry support for the petition; a description of the merchandise involved;
  information with respect to home market or third country sales prices and/or
