  cost, prices and sales in the U.S.; information with respect to the alleged       
  countervail able subsidy; and information indicating that an industry in the U.S. 
  is being injured materially by the imports. For a more detailed description of    
  petition requirements see 19 CFR 351.202 (b) and the website for the Petition     
  Counseling and Analysis Unit, http://ia.ita.doc.gov/pcp/pcp-index.html.           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  A conference with Import Administration officials is highly recommended. Both     
  the Import Administration and the International Trade Commission have staff       
  available to assist domestic industries in deciding whether there is sufficient   
  evidence to file a petition for antidumping or countervailing duty investigations.
  The staff may also assist businesses with the filing process. For further         
  information see the website for the Petition Counseling and Analysis Unit,        
  http://ia.ita.doc.gov/pcp/pcp-index.html or the Subsidies Enforcement Office,     
  http://ia.ita.doc.gov/esel/index.html. This program is excluded from coverage     
  under E.O. 12372.                                                                 
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Representatives of U.S. industries should consult 19 CFR 351.202.

Award Procedure:                                                                    
  A decision regarding the initiation of an investigation is made generally within

  20 days of receipt of a proper petition. If the investigation is initiated by the 
                                                                                    
  Department of Commerce, a notice is published in the Federal Register. Then,

                                                                                    
  generally within 45 days of receipt of a proper petition, the International Trade

                                                                                    
  Commission (ITC) must determine whether there is a reasonable indication of

                                                                                    
  injury to the domestic industry. If sales are subsequently found to have been

                                                                                    
  made at less than fair value (dumped) or a subsidy has been bestowed, the

                                                                                    
  Secretary of Commerce issues a determination to that effect. The case is then

                                                                                    
  sent back to the ITC for a final determination as to whether or not the dumped or

                                                                                    
  subsidized imports are causing, or are likely to cause, material injury to the

                                                                                    
  industry in the United States. If the ITC determination is affirmative, the

                                                                                    
  Secretary of Commerce issues an anti-dumping or countervailing duty order and

                                                                                    
  special dumping or countervailing duties are assessed against that merchandise

                                                                                    
  which is being sold in the United States at less than fair value or being

                                                                                    
  subsidized.

                                                                                    
Deadlines:

                                                                                    
  The Department of Commerce normally makes a preliminary antidumping

                                                                                    
  determination in 140 to 190 days (depending on the complexity of the case)        
  from the date of initiation of an investigation. A final determination will be due
  75 or 135 days, as appropriate, after the preliminary determination. A            
  preliminary countervailing determination normally must be published in 65 to      
  130 days of initiation of the investigation (depending on the complexity of the   
  case) and a final determination is generally due within 75 days from the date of  
  the preliminary determination.                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  All antidumping or countervailing investigations must be concluded within

                                                                                    
  statutory deadlines pursuant to the Tariff Act of 1930, as amended.

                                                                                    
Appeals:

                                                                                    
  See 19 U.S.C. 1516A.

                                                                                    
Renewals:

                                                                                    
  Not applicable.

                                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  Not applicable.                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  An antidumping or countervailing duty finding will be revoked after a review in   
  the fifth year unless the Secretary of Commerce and the International Trade       
  Commission determine that revocation would be likely to lead to a recurrence or   
  continuation of dumping or a countervail able subsidy and injury.                 
Reports:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit               
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall   
                                                                                    
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act

                                                                                    
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall

                                                                                    
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.

                                                                                    
Records:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Account Identification:                                                             
  13-1250-0-1-376.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Operations and administration) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; 
  and FY 09 est not reported.                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Antidumping and countervailing duty trade remedies have been successfully         
  pursued by a variety of domestic industries, including producers of steel,        
  industrial equipment, computer chips, agricultural products, textiles, chemicals, 
  and consumer products.                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            


                                                                               11-08
  Commerce Regulations, Part 351 (19 CFR 351).
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Import Administration, International Trade Administration, U.S. Department of
  Commerce, 14th and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20230.
  Inquiries or requests for assistance should be directed to the Office of Policy
  Petition Hotline (202) 482-1255.
Web Site Address:
  http://ia.ita.doc.gov/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
11.108 COMMERCIAL SERVICE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INTERNATIONAL TRADE ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, Public Law 100-418, 15
  U.S.C. 473; 15 U.S.C. 1512; 15 U.S.C. 649a et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  Through export counseling, trade promotion, trade finance and advocacy
  provided by domestic international network of trade professionals, encourage
  export capable U.S. firms to expand their export marketing efforts or begin
  exporting; to assist them to identify and assess potential foreign trade contacts
  and market opportunities; and to facilitate their export efforts through a
  comprehensive use of export promotion services, including trade events and
  market research information.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Advisory Services and Counseling.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Services include the following: (1) Information on foreign market trade
  opportunities; (2) export counseling for U.S. business on market identification
  and assessment; (3) non-financial assistance in export promotion (matchmaker
  missions, multi-state/catalog exhibitions, and other specialized promotions); 4)
  product promotions through catalog-magazine listings; 5) support to State and
  private sector organizers of selected domestic and foreign trade fairs and
  missions through international buyer shows, certified trade fairs and missions;
  (6) information on foreign tariffs, customs regulations and procedures, market
  potential in individual countries industry analyses, and other related activities;
  (7) foreign government- to-government advocacy and representation; (8) advice
  and counseling on individual foreign markets; and (9) assistance on sources of
  export finance available from U.S. Export Import Bank, U.S. Small Business
  Administration and U.S. Agency for International Development in U.S. Export
  Assistance Centers; (10) information on locating and evaluating prospective
  overseas business contacts.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any U.S. citizen, firm, organization, or branch of government needing
  information or assistance in international business matters.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any U.S. citizen, firm, organization or branch of government needing
  information or assistance in international business matters.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Not applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Not applicable.
Deadlines:
  Not applicable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
                                                                                       183
