  Stat. 706 and 710.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To help encourage domestic warehousing, manufacturing and processing               
  activity. States and local communities use foreign-trade zones as part of their    
  overall economic growth efforts to improve their international business service    
  structure. In this way, FTZs contribute to the enhancement of their investment     
  climate for commerce and industry.                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Provision of Specialized Services.                                                 
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Zone procedures help firms reduce customs costs and help improve a domestic        
  operation's international competitiveness. The procedures are available at         
  facilities designated as foreign trade zones and sub zones under the sponsorship   
  of local public and quasi-public corporations.                                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Public and private corporations as defined by the Law, and by appropriate State    
  enabling legislation.                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Foreign Trade Zone's (FTZ) are required to operate under public utility            
  principles, providing access to zone procedures on a nondiscriminatory basis to    
  businesses and manufacturers. Zone procedures are available at any of the          
  operating FTZ's, subject to customs requirements, a review process to determine    
  that manufacturing activity is in the public interest, and the specific

  requirements of the local zone project.                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applications contain: A cover letter, with exhibits, detailing corporation's

  eligibility to apply; type of authority requested; a site and facility description;
  project background; the need for a zone; public economic benefits; the             
  relationship of the zone project to the overall community economic development     
  plans; and how the project will be operated and financed. When manufacturing       
  activity is involved, the application must also contain information on the         
  activity, including products and components, tariff rates, benefits to the         
  operator, industry information, international competitive factors, public benefits 
  (e.g., employment retention/creation), and a demonstration of a net positive       
  economic effect.                                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Draft applications are recommended. This program is excluded from coverage         
  under E.O. 12372.                                                                  
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applications for zone authority are submitted by eligible applicants and           
  reviewed under the regulations of the FTZ Board. The Board (Secretaries of         
  Commerce (Chairman), and Treasury) can approve or deny the application, or         
  approve it with restrictions. Applications are processed for the Board by the      
  FTZ Staff/Import Administration/International Trade Administration, U.S.           
  Department of Commerce.                                                            
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Upon filing of an application, after a prefiling review, an examiner is appointed  
  to investigate the proposal and make recommendations. Hearings are held in         
  cases of new zones and public comments invited in all cases. When the Foreign-     
  Trade Zones Board makes a decision an order is issued and published in the         
  Federal Register.                                                                  
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Applications are usually acted upon within 10 to 12 months of filing.              
Appeals:                                                                             
  A negative decision can be appealed by reapplication to the FTZ Board when         
  warranted by evidence and circumstance.                                            
Renewals:                                                                            
  Applicable when the Board places time constraints on the FTZs. In that event, a    
  renewal application must be filed.                                                 
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  Annual reports on FTZ operations are submitted by grantees.                        
Audits:                                                                              
  FTZ operations are supervised and audited by the U.S. Customs Service and          
  monitored by the Foreign-Trade Zones Board in terms of restrictions imposed by     
  board and the general public interest mandate of the FTZ Act.                      
Records:                                                                             
  Each grantee is required to keep records pursuant to the FTZ Board's (15 CFR       
  400), and Customs regulations (19 CFR 146).                                        
Account Identification:                                                              
  13-1250-0-1-376.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Operations and administration) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09       
  est not reported.                                                                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           


                                                                                11-08
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Board processes approximately 60 to 80 applications each year covering
  new general-purpose zones, sub zones, and zone expansions.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Commerce Regulations, 15 CFR, Part 400 (15 CFR 400). U.S. Custom
  Regulations, (19 CFR Part 146), FTZ Board Guidelines (see web site below).
Regional or Local Office:
  Commerce District Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of the Executive Secretary, Foreign- Trade Zones Board, 1401
  Constitution Avenue, NW., Room FCB 4100W, Washington, DC 20230.
  Inquiries should be directed to Dennis Puccinelli, Executive Secretary, Foreign-
  Trade Zones Board. Telephone: (202) 482-2862.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.trade.gov/ .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
11.112 MARKET DEVELOPMENT COOPERATOR
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INTERNATIONAL TRADE ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, Public Law 100-418, Title II,
  Section 2303, 102 Stat. 1342, 15 U.S.C.4723.
OBJECTIVES:
  Through the Market Development Cooperator Program (MDCP), the
  International Trade Administration (ITA) aims to develop, maintain and expand
  foreign markets for nonagricultural goods and services produced in the United
  States.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  A notice is published in the Federal Register soliciting applications. A more
  detailed Federal Funding Opportunity (FFO) notice describing the program is
  published at www.export.gov/mdcp, where the most recent notice and the FFO
  are available, or from the contact listed in "Information Contacts" below. The
  most prominent uses and restrictions are summarized below. (1) Applicants
  should propose foreign market development activities that result in increased
  exports by U.S. firms; (2) the primary beneficiaries of project activity should be
  small-and medium-sized enterprises; (3) no more than $400,000 in federal funds
  is available for each project; (4)the federal funds are to last for the life of the
  project, not to exceed three years; (5) applicant match is two for one: for each
  federal dollar received, applicant must match at least one dollar with cash and
  another dollar with cash or in-kind contribution; and (6) federal funds and the
  first dollar of applicant match can be used only on direct costs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants are found to be eligible in one of three categories: (1) Nonprofit
  industry organizations (includes small business development centers, World
  Trade Centers, and 501(c)nonprofits such as chambers of commerce,
  international trade centers, port authorities, economic development
  organizations, and other business interest groups); (2) trade associations; and (3)
  State departments of trade and their regional associations (includes centers for
  international trade and similar entities that may fall within a university
  organization). The Statute stipulates that private industry firms or groups of
  firms may be found eligible in cases where no entity described above represents
  that industry. However, since the program began operating in 1993, no private
  firm has been able to demonstrate that an organization in one of the first three
  categories did not represent its interests.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  U.S. firms that sell non-agricultural goods or services. (While private firms
  benefit from MDCP project activity, as noted above, they are generally not
  eligible to apply for MDCP funds.)
Credentials/Documentation:
  In order to determine eligibility, applicants should consult
  www.export.gov/mdcp and request an eligibility determination in writing from
  the MDCP Manager (see "Information Contacts"). The written request should
  be accompanied by the most current version of all the following documents that
  apply: (1) articles of incorporation; (2) charter; (3) bylaws; (4) information on
  types of members and membership fees; (5) Internal Revenue Service
  acknowledgment of non-profit status; (6) annual report; (7) audited financial
  statements; and (8) documentation of ties to state trade departments or their
  regional associations.
                                                                                     185
