Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  The main body of the application should include the substance of the applicant's     
  proposal as identified in elements (1) through (4) below. It is limited to 50        
  pages. Elements (5) through (7) below, as well as information which                  
  supplements elements (1) through (4) should be submitted as appendices. There        
  is no limit to the number of pages for the appendices. The elements of the           
  application are summarized below. (1) Executive summary of one-page that lists       
  application essentials such as a summary of the proposal, name address, contact      
  information, ITA offices to be involved in the proposal, budget, amount of           
  federal funds requested, term of project, U.S. industry(s) to be promoted, and       
  target markets; (2) background research on the market potential of U.S. products     
  to be marketed, competition, economic situation, ability/desire of the U.S.          
  industry to export, and the ability/desire of foreign customers to purchase U.S.     
  products; (3)project description including a work plan, performance measures, a      
  description of performance measurement recording and reporting, and a                
  description of how applicant plans to incorporate partnership with ITA in its        
  project; (4) credentials including a description of the applicant's competence and   
  resumes of principal players; (5) budget including financial statements, a           
  detailed description of the budget, the "Budget for Project Award Period"            
  worksheet, and the form "Budget Information" (SF-424A); (6) other forms              
  including SF-424, SF424B, CD- 511, and CD-346. Applicants that intend to             
  lobby the federal government with funds included in the project budget should        
  also submit SF-LLL. All of these forms are available at www.export.gov/mdcp;         
  (7) other appendices.                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  A selection panel of at least three senior ITA officials evaluates each MDCP         
  application based on the following criteria: (1) Export success potential; (2)       
  performance measurement; (3) partnership potential with ITA and compatibility        
  with ITA priorities; (4) creativity and institutional capacity; and (5) budget, cash 
  match, and sustainability. Each application can receive up to 20 points in each      
  of the five categories for a total possible score of 100. Once applications are      
  received, applicants may not revise them. Unsuccessful applicants will be            
  notified in writing within 10 days after award decisions have been announced.        
  Since the program began in 1993, ITA has made, on average, 7 awards per year.        
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Historically, application deadlines have varied from early spring to early           
  summer. The most recent information is posted at www.export.gov/mdcp.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approximately 90 to 180 days.                                                        
Appeals:                                                                               
  All award decisions are final. There is no appeal process.                           
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, Public Law 100-418, Title II,         
  Section 2303, 102 Stat. 1342, 15 U.S.C. 4723. This information on formula and

  matching requirements is published in the Federal Register in an annual

  solicitation for applications, available at www.export.gov/mdcp.

                                                                                       
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Funds may be expended over the period of time required to complete the scope         
  of the work, but not exceed three years from the date of the award. Assistance is    
  released according to approved marketing plans in the Market Development             
  Cooperator Program.                                                                  
Reports:                                                                               
  Award recipients submit reports and requests as set forth below. (1) Quarterly       
  reports: (a) progress in project activity, and (b) financial status (SF-269); (2)    
  requests/reports as needed: (a) advance or reimbursement request (SF- 270); and      
  (b) cash transactions reports (SF-272)(for recipients that receive award funds in    
  advance).                                                                            
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit                  
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall      
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act               
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507).                                            
Records:                                                                               
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical            
  reports, and other records of recipients or sub recipients must be maintained in     
  accordance with the terms of the award. Generally, the recipient must retain         
  records for 3 years from the date on which the final expenditure report is           
  submitted.                                                                           
Account Identification:                                                                
  13-1250-0-1-376.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $2,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY           
  09 est not reported.                                                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $10,000 to $400,000. Average: $298,000.                                              


186                                                                              11-08

PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  On average, MDCP project activity yields 86 dollars in exports for every federal
  dollar invested.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Applicants can link to Internet sources for each of the authorities cited below at
  www.export.gov/mdcp. (1) MDCP-specific authorities and guidelines: (a)
  Federal Register notice soliciting applications; (b) mock application; and (c)
  application kit; (2) statutory authority: Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act
  of 1988, Public Law 100-418, Title II, Section 2303,102 Stat. 1342, 15 U.S.C.
  4723. (3) regulatory/administrative guidelines: (a) costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments, and
  with OMB Circular No. A- 122 for nonprofit and for-profit organizations;
  (b)financial assistance management will be in accordance with OMB Circular
  No. A-110 for nonprofit organizations and 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local
  governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  The MDCP is managed from the headquarters office, which should be the
  applicant's initial point of contact for MDCP information. In addition,
  applicants are encouraged to contact relevant ITA industry specialists in
  Washington, DC and their nearest ITA Export Assistance Center. Contact
  information is available at www.export.gov/mdcp.
Headquarters Office:
  MDCP Manager, Brad Hess, 14th Street and Constitution Avenue, N.W.,
  HCHB 3215, Washington, DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-2969. Fax: (202)
  482-5828. Organizational Reference: Department of Commerce, International
  Trade Administration, Trade Development, Office of Planning, Coordination
  and Management. Management and Planning Division.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.export.gov/mdcp .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of activities which applicants from prior years have found appropriate
  are set forth below. These are provided only for illustration. Applicants are not
  required to propose any of these activities: (1) foreign trade shows; (2) foreign
  trade missions; (3) reverse trade missions; (4) product demonstrations abroad;
  (5) export seminars; (6) technical seminars abroad; (7) joint product promotions
  with foreign partners; (8) establishment of offices abroad; (9) co-locating an
  office with the U.S.& Foreign Commercial Service; (10) advice to foreign
  standards and testing organizations; (11) training of foreign agents and
  distributors; and (12) creating and promoting matchmaking databases.
  Descriptions of the award recipients' projects are available at
  www.export.gov/mdcp.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Additional details on the selection criteria are published in the Federal Register
  and in the FFO, the annual solicitation for applications. The most recent
  solicitation is available at www.export.gov/mdcp.
11.113 ITA SPECIAL PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  INTERNATIONAL TRADE ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of 2002,
  Public Law 107-77.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist various organizations identified by Congress to expand exports; to
  promote job creation through projects designed to provide small-medium sized
  businesses with export assistance to specified overseas markets.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance is used to provide information, contracts, and research and
  development in shaping and implementing specific projects and programs that
  promote exports in various markets.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Organizations or individuals specifically identified by Congress in agency
  appropriations legislation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries are the companies served by the organizations receiving awards,
  and the organizations or individuals specifically identified by Congress.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submit all standard forms, project proposal and budget following the format
  specified by the Department of Commerce.
Award Procedure:
