  Grants result from legislation by the congress. There is no application process.  
Deadlines:

  Not applicable.                                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Appeals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Renewals:                                                                           
  Renewals are contingent upon future Congressional funding.                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial and progress reports are to be submitted in accordance with the terms   
  and conditions of the award. Financial status reports (SF-269) are submitted on   
  a quarterly basis. Federal cash transaction reports (SF-272) are submitted for    
  each award where funds are advanced to recipients. Performance reports are        
  submitted on a quarterly basis.                                                   
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit               
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall   
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act            
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall          
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. In      
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No.A-133, (Revised, June 27,       
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"        
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical         
  reports, and other records of recipients or sub- recipients must be maintained in 
  accordance with the terms of the award. Generally, the recipient must retain      
  records for 3 years from the date on which the final expenditure report is        
  submitted.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                             
  13-1250-0-1-376.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Grants) FY 07 $500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.     
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  From $500,000 to $10,000,000.                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  ITA grant recipients receiving continuation funding have developed new            
  technologies and established new companies; a number of companies have            
  reached the stage where they can attract new foreign and domestic investments.    
  This has resulted in job creation and led to increased opportunities to export the
  technologies developed.                                                           
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  Allowable costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21      
  for institutions of higher education, A-87 for State and local governments, A-    
  122 for nonprofit organizations; and 48 CFR Part 31 for-profit organizations.     
  Grants management will be in accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular       
  No. A-110 for institutions of higher education, other nonprofit organizations,    
  for-profit organizations; and 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.     
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Annette Henderson, Planning and Management Division, Trade                        
  Development/OPCM, Room 3215, HCHB, Department of Commerce,                        
  Washington, DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-3197. Fax: (202) 482-4462.             
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  The development of a series of programs to assist small businesses in targeting   
  new domestic and international markets; assist new high tech start-up companies   
  by writing business plans, locating financing for export, and conducting market   
  research for export; research and development in the textiles and apparel         
  industry.                                                                         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  The U.S. Congress designates those entities that receive funding in annual        
  appropriations of the Department of Commerce.                                     
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
11.150 EXPORT LICENSING SERVICE AND                                                 
INFORMATION                                                                         


                                                                               11-08
   (Export Control) Exporter Assistance Program
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  BUREAU OF INDUSTRY AND SECURITY, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Export Administration Act of 1979, as amended, 50 U.S.C. 2401 et seq. This
  authority is currently extended under the International Emergency Economic
  Powers Act (IEEPA).
OBJECTIVES:
  Respond to the needs of the exporting community by telephone, in person, and
  through seminars and other outreach efforts in order to help exporters
  understand and comply with the Export Administration Regulations that involve
  the export of certain products and technical data requiring a special export
  license for shipments to foreign countries.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Advisory Services and Counseling.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Individuals and business firms may obtain information, training, and assistance
  on the interpretation of export control regulations and policies, when a validated
  export control license is required; and secure expeditious handling of an export
  application when priority action is warranted.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any person, firm, organization, or branch of government needing information or
  assistance on export control matters.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Any person, firm, organization, or branch of government needing information or
  assistance on export control matters.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  In person, by letter or telephone.
Award Procedure:
  Not applicable.
Deadlines:
  Not applicable.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  None.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB circular No. A133 (Revised, June 27,
  2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit Organizations
  (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of High Learning shall be subject to the
  audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31.
  U.S.C 7501 -7507). Commercial organization shall be subject to the audit
  requirements as stipulated in the award document. In accordance with the
  provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, nonfederal entities that
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have a
  single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  13-0300-0-1-376.
Obligations:
  (Operations and administration) FY 07 $1,753,000; FY 08 est not available; and
  FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Office of Exporter Services (OEXS) is the Bureau of Industry and Security
  (BIS) front line unit in providing exporter counseling and plays a major role in
  guiding exporters through complex licensing transactions. Through a variety of
  seminar programs offered at locations throughout the United States, OEXS
  instructs and assists new and established exporters through basic and advanced
  level courses. OEXS also provides specialized workshops on topics of specific
  interest (e.g., commercial encryption licensing, technology controls, how to
  classify your products, export management systems and freight forwarder
                                                                                  187
