  programs). In fiscal y programs). In fiscal year 2005, BIS conducted 45 domestic       
  seminars in 17 states, which were attended by over 3,318 participants. In fiscal       
  year 2006, we anticipate over 3,200 exporters will be counseled through 45             
  export licensing seminars. These estimates should also apply in fiscal year 2007       
  as limited resources will prevent us from expanding the seminar program.               
  Through our headquarters in Washington, DC and our Western Regional Offices            
  in Los Angeles and San Jose, California, BIS will provide one-on-one counseling        
  11 hours a day through meetings, telephone counseling sessions and responses to        
  e-mail and fax inquiries. In addition, the BIS Web site (www.bis.doc.gov)              
  provides exporters constant access to timely information and services.                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                 
  Export Administration Regulations; Export Administration Bulletins; Summary            
  of U.S. Export Regulations; Bureau of Industry and Security Annual Report;             
  Index to the Commodity Control List; Export Management System Guidelines               
  and Summary thereof.                                                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                                
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for BIS Regional Office addresses.                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                     
  Office of Exporter Services, Outreach and Educational Services Division, Room          
  1099, Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230 or Outreach and                     
  Educational Services Division, P.O. Box 273, Washington, DC 20044.                     
  Telephone: (202) 482-4811. Western Regional Office (Newport Beach,                     
  California) 3300 Irvine Avenue, Suite 345, Newport Beach, CA 92660.                    
  Telephone: (949) 660-0144. Western Regional Office (San Jose, CA) 111 N.               
  Market Street, 6th Floor, San Jose, CA 95113. Telephone: (408) 351-3378.               
Web Site Address:                                                                        
  http://www.bis.doc.gov.                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                        
  11.108, Commercial Service.                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  Not applicable.                                                                        
                                                                                         
11.300 INVESTMENTS FOR PUBLIC WORKS AND                                                  
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT FACILITIES                                                          
                                                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                     
  COMMERCE                                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Section 201 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as               
  amended (PWEDA),(42 U.S.C. 3141).                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                              
  The Public Works and Economic Development Program of the Economic                      
  Development Administration (EDA) is designed to enhance regional                       
  competitiveness and promote long-term economic development in regions                  
  experiencing substantial economic distress. Through the program, EDA provides          
  Public Works investment assistance to support the construction or rehabilitation       
  of essential public infrastructure and facilities necessary to generate or retain      
  long-term private sector jobs and investments, attract private sector capital, and     
  promote regional competitiveness. Grants (referred to throughout this document         
  as investments) may be used for projects such as expanding and upgrading               
  infrastructure to attract new industry, supporting technology-led development,         
  redeveloping brownfield sites, promoting eco-industrial development, and               
  supporting heritage preservation development investments such as those                 
  promoted by the Executive Order on Preserve America.                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                     
  Project Grants.                                                                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                               
  Eligible activities include the acquisition or development of public land and          
  improvements for use in public works, public services, or development facilities.      
  Other appropriate activities include acquisition, design and engineering,              
  construction, rehabilitation, alteration, expansion, or improvement of publicly-       
  owned and operated development facilities, including related machinery and             
  equipment. Characteristic projects include investments in facilities such as water     
  and sewer systems, industrial access roads, industrial and business parks, port        
  facilities, railroad sidings, distance learning facilities, skill-training facilities, 
  business incubator facilities, brownfield redevelopment, eco-industrial facilities,    
  and telecommunications and broadband infrastructure improvements necessary             
  for business creation, retention and expansion. A project must be located in or        
  impact a region that, on the date EDA receives an application for investment           
  assistance, satisfies one or more of the economic distress criteria set forth in 13    
  CFR 301.3(a). In addition, the project must fulfill a pressing need of the region      
  and must: (a) improve the opportunities for the successful establishment or            
  expansion of industrial or commercial plants or facilities in the region; (b) assist   
  in the creation of additional long-term employment opportunities in the region;        
  or (c) primarily benefit the long-term unemployed and low-income residents. All        
  proposed investments must be consistent with a current EDA-approved                    
  Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) or equivalent strategic             


188                                                                                11-08

  economic development plan for the region in which the project will be located,
  and the applicant must have the required local share of funds committed,
  available, and unencumbered. Applicants must be able to start and complete
  proposed projects in a timely manner consistent with award terms and
  conditions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Pursuant to PWEDA, eligible applicants for and recipients of EDA investment
  assistance include a State, city, county, or other political subdivision of a State,
  including a(n): (a) District Organization as defined in 13 CFR 304.2; (b) Indian
  Tribe or a consortium of Indian Tribes; (c) State, city, or other political
  subdivision of a State, including a special purpose unit of a State or local
  government engaged in economic or infrastructure development activities, or a
  consortium of such political subdivisions; (d) institution of higher education or a
  consortium of institutions of higher education; or (e) public or private non-profit
  organization or association acting in cooperation with officials of a political
  subdivision of a State. See section 3 of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3122) and 13 CFR
  300.3. Projects eligible for Public Works investment assistance include those
  located in regions meeting "Special Need" criteria as defined in 13 CFR 300.3.
  For-profit, private-sector entities do not qualify for Public Works assistance
  under PWEDA. EDA may not provide investments directly to individuals or
  for-profit entities seeking to start or expand a private business. Such requests
  may be referred to State or local agencies, or to non-profit economic
  development organizations. As used in this paragraph, 'State' includes the
  Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American
  Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic
  of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of
  Palau.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Not applicable. Public Works and Economic Development investments are
  intended to help recipients in the nation's most distressed communities to
  revitalize, expand, or upgrade their physical infrastructure to attract new
  industry, encourage business expansion, diversify their local economies, and
  generate or retain long-term private sector jobs and capital investments.
Credentials/Documentation:
  An application for investment assistance must describe the purpose of the
  proposed projects, the type of facility proposed, estimated project costs,
  permanent private sector job impact (estimated payrolls, estimated private-sector
  job investment, etc.), the estimated schedule for construction commencement
  and completion, and assurances that the project will satisfy EDA's statutory and
  regulatory requirements. The application must demonstrate how the project will
  satisfy a pressing need of the region and assist local economic development
  efforts.
Preapplication Coordination:
  An applicant interested in a Public Works investment assistance award may
  request application information by contacting the EDA regional office serving
  the region in which the proposed project will be located or will serve. Please
  visit EDA's internet website at www.eda.gov for regional office contact
  information. An environmental assessment is necessary; an environmental
  impact statement may also be required. This program is eligible for coverage
  under Executive Order 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs".
Application Procedure:
  For information on the application process you may access the applicable federal
  funding opportunity (FFO) announcement for Public Works investment
  assistance at www.grants.gov and at www.eda.gov. EDA will review each
  application for Public Works investment assistance in accordance with the
  evaluation criteria, funding priorities, and selection procedures set forth in the
  applicable FFO. Applications are subject to the intergovernmental review
  process authorized under Executive Order 12372 and implementing regulations
  at 13 CFR 302.9 and 15 CFR part 13.
Award Procedure:
  Successful applications are selected by the appropriate Regional Director and
  announced by the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development
  (Assistant Secretary).
Deadlines:
  EDA regional offices accept applications for Public Works investments on an
  ongoing basis. EDA will notify the applicant if EDA has accepted a completed
  application and forwarded the application for further review and processing in
  accordance with EDA and Department of Commerce procedures.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Generally, two months are required for EDA to reach a final decision after
  receipt of a complete application that meets all requirements.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Generally, EDA investment assistance may not exceed 50 percent of the project
  cost. Projects may receive an additional amount that shall not exceed 30 percent,
  based on the relative needs of the region in which the project will be located, as
  determined by EDA. See section 204(a) of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3144) and 13
