  CFR 301.4(b)(1). In the case of investment assistance to a(n) (a) Indian Tribe;     
  (b) State or political subdivision of a State that the Assistant Secretary          
  determines has exhausted its effective taxing and borrowing capacity; or (c) non-   
  profit organization that the Assistant Secretary determines have exhausted its      
  effective borrowing capacity, the Assistant Secretary has the discretion to         
  establish a maximum EDA investment rate of up to 100 percent of the total           
  project cost. See sections 204(c)(1) and (2) of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3144) and 13       
  CFR 301.4(b)(5). Potential applicants should contact the appropriate EDA            
  regional office to make these determinations. While cash contributions are          
  preferred, in-kind contributions, such as contributions of space, equipment,        
  assumptions of debt, and services, may provide the required non-federal share of    
  the total project cost. See section 204(b) of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3144). EDA will      
  fairly evaluate all in-kind contributions, which must be eligible project costs and 
  meet applicable Federal financial assistance awards are considered matching         
  share funds only if authorized by statute, which may be determined by EDA's         
  reasonable interpretation of the statute. See 13 CFR 300.3. The applicant must      
  show that the required matching share is committed to the project for the project   
  period, available as needed, and not conditioned or encumbered in any way that

  precludes its use consistent with the requirements of EDA investment assistance.    
  See 13 CFR 301.5.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Public Works investments, which are disbursed for eligible costs incurred, are      
  generally not disbursed until after all contracts for construction have been

  awarded. See 13 CFR 305.9.                                                          
Reports:                                                                              
  Recipients are subject to all federal laws and federal, Department of Commerce      
  and EDA policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to federal financial       
  assistance awards, including but not limited to 15 CFR Parts 14 or 24, as           
  applicable. Standard financial and performance reports are required, and special    
  reports for specific projects may be requested. See 13 CFR 302.6 and 302.16.        
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, recipients that        
  are States, local governments, non-profit organizations (including hospitals), and  
  institutions of higher education shall be subject to the audit requirements         
  contained in the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et             
  seq.). States, local governments, and non-profit governments that expend            
  $500,000 or more in a year in federal awards shall have a single or program-        
  specific audit conducted for that year. In addition, recipients must provide the    
  EDA, the Inspector General of the Department of Commerce, and the                   
  Comptroller General of the United States with access to its properties to examine   
  all materials necessary to verify compliance with investment requirements. See      
  13 CFR 302.14(b).                                                                   
Records:                                                                              
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical           
  reports, and other records of recipients or sub-recipients are required to be       
  maintained by the terms of the grant agreement. The recipient must retain           
  records for three years from the date when the final expenditure report is          
  submitted.                                                                          
Account Identification:                                                               
  13-2050-0-1-452.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Investments) FY 07 $176,990,281; FY 08 $146,430,000; and FY 09 est                 
  $7,200,000.                                                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  In FY 2007, Public Works investments ranged from $12,500 to $3,215,427. The         
  average investment was $1,246,410.                                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In FY 2007, 142 Public Works investments were approved.                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Title 13 CFR Chapter III, Parts 300-302, 305, 310, and 314; Department of           
  Commerce Organization Order 10-4, as amended.                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for EDA regional office contact                 
  information.                                                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce, 1401                   
  Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20230.                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  www.eda.gov                                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  11.303, Economic Development_Technical Assistance; 11.307, Economic

                                                                                      
  Adjustment Assistance.

                                                                                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Projects funded through the Public Works and Economic Development Program

                                                                                      
  include: (a) infrastructure for industrial park development; (b) port development

                                                                                      
  and expansion; (c) infrastructure necessary for economic development (e.g.

                                                                                      
  water quality infrastructure, sewer facilities, etc.); (d) renovation and recycling

                                                                                      
  of former industrial buildings; (e) construction of vocational/technical facilities

                                                                                      
  and skill centers; (f) incubator facility construction; (g) brownfield

                                                                                      
  redevelopment; (h) eco-industrial development; and (i) broadband infrastructure.

                                                                                      
                                                                                11-08 
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  EDA will review all applications for investment assistance for the feasibility of
  the budget presented and conformance with EDA statutory and regulatory
  requirements. EDA will assess the economic development needs of the affected
  region in which the proposed project will be located, or the region which the
  project will serve, as well as the capability of the proponent to implement the
  proposed project. Furthermore, EDA will select applications competitively based
  on strategic areas of interest and priority considerations identified in the
  applicable announcement of federal funding opportunity (FFO). EDA also may
  consider the degree to which an investment in the proposed project will satisfy
  one or more of the following criteria: (a) is market-based and results driven; (b)
  has strong organizational leadership; (c) advances productivity, innovation and
  entrepreneurship; (d) looks beyond the immediate economic horizon, anticipates
  economic changes and diversifies the local and regional economy; and (e)
  demonstrates a high degree of local commitment. Public Works investment
  applications must meet EDA's investment policy guidelines as set out in 13 CFR
  301.8 and other requirements as provided in the applicable FFO.
11.302 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT-SUPPORT FOR
PLANNING ORGANIZATIONS
   (Section 203 Grants for Planning and Administrative Expenses)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 203 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as
  amended (PWEDA), (42 U.S.C. 3143).
OBJECTIVES:
  The Economic Development Administration (EDA) provides Planning
  assistance to provide support to Planning Organizations (as defined in 13 CFR
  303.2) for the development, implementation, revision, or replacement of a
  Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS), short-term planning
  efforts, and State plans designed to create and retain higher-skill, higher-wage
  jobs, particularly for the unemployed and underemployed in the nation's most
  economically distressed regions. Planning activities supported by these grants
  (referred to throughout this document as investments) must be part of a
  continuous process involving the active participation of Private Sector
  Representatives (as defined in 13 CFR 300.3), public officials, and private
  citizens. In addition, they must include: (a) analysis of local economies; (b)
  identification of economic development goals; (c) determination of project
  opportunities; and (d) formulation and implementation of an economic
  development program that includes systematic efforts to reduce unemployment
  and increase incomes. Current investment priorities include applications that
  help develop and enhance regional industry clusters and assist local leaders in
  understanding and applying the principles of entrepreneurship and technological
  innovation. See 13 CFR 303.1 and 303.7.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Planning investment assistance helps bear the direct and indirect costs incurred
  by a Planning Organization in developing and implementing a CEDS.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Pursuant to PWEDA, eligible applicants for and recipients of EDA investment
  assistance include a(n): (a) District Organization (as defined in 13 CFR 304.2);
  (b) Indian Tribe or a consortium of Indian Tribes; (c) State, city, or other
  political subdivision of a State, including a special purpose unit of a State or
  local government engaged in economic or infrastructure development activities,
  or a consortium of political subdivisions; (d) institution of higher education or a
  consortium of institutions of higher education; or (e) public or private non-profit
  organization or association acting in cooperation with officials of a political
  subdivision of a State. See section 3 of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3122) and 13 CFR
  300.3. As used in this paragraph, State includes the Commonwealth of Puerto
  Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth
  of the Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the
  Federated States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau. See 13 CFR 300.3
  and 301.2.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Not applicable. EDA Planning investments provide support to Planning
  Organizations for the development, implementation, revision, or replacement of
  a CEDS. They also may provide support for related short-term planning
  investments and State plans designed to create and retain higher-skill, higher-
  wage jobs, particularly for the unemployed and underemployed in the nation's
  most economically distressed regions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must satisfy all applicable federal, Department of Commerce and
  EDA standards and regulations, including all terms and conditions of the
  financial assistance award. Costs will be determined in accordance with
  applicable federal cost principles and administrative requirements.
                                                                                    189
