Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                    
Application Procedure:                                                              
  For information on the application process, you may access the federal funding    
  opportunity (FFO) announcement for planning assistance at www.grants.gov and      
  at www.eda.gov. EDA will review each application for planning investment          
  assistance in accordance with the evaluation criteria, funding priorities, and    
  selection procedures set forth in the applicable FFO. Applications are subject to 
  the intergovernmental review process authorized under Executive Order 12372.      
  See 13 CFR 302.9 and 15 CFR Part 13.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development (Assistant           
  Secretary) approves the initial investment to District Organizations, Indian      
  Tribes, and other Planning Organizations. The appropriate regional office         
  approves continuation awards.                                                     
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Generally, 45 to 60 days are required for EDA to reach a final decision after     
  receipt of a completed application that meets all requirements.                   
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  EDA will provide Planning assistance for the period of time required to develop,  
  revise, replace, or implement a CEDS, generally in 36-month renewable             
  investment project periods. EDA will consider a recipient's performance over      
  previous investment project periods in order to determine whether additional      
  Planning investments should be awarded. See 13 CFR 303.4.                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  Generally, an EDA investment may not exceed 50 percent of the total cost of a     
  project. Projects may receive an additional amount that shall not exceed 30       
  percent, based on the relative needs of the region in which the project will be   
  located, as determined by EDA. See section 204(a) of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3144)       
  and 13 CFR 301.4(b)(1). For Planning assistance, the minimum EDA                  
  investment rate for projects under 13 CFR part 303 is 50 percent, and the         
  maximum allowable EDA investment rate is 80 percent. See 13 CFR                   
  301.4(b)(3). In the case of EDA investment assistance to (a) Indian Tribe, (b)    
  State or political subdivision of a State that the Assistant Secretary determines 
  has exhausted its effective taxing and borrowing capacity, or (c) nonprofit       
  organization that the Assistant Secretary determines has exhausted its effective  
  borrowing capacity, the Assistant Secretary has the discretion to establish a     
  maximum allowable EDA investment rate of up to 100 percent of the total           
  project cost. See sections 204(c)(1) and (2) of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3144) and 13     
  CFR 301.4(b)(5). Potential applicants should contact the appropriate EDA          
  regional office to make these determinations. While cash contributions are        
  preferred, in-kind contributions, such as contributions of space, equipment,      
  assumptions of debt, and services, may provide the required non-federal share of  
  the total project cost. Applicants must show that the required matching share is  
  committed to the project for the project period, available as needed, and not     
  conditioned or encumbered in any way that precludes its use consistent with the   
  requirements of EDA investment assistance. See section 204(b) of PWEDA (42

  U.S.C. 3144) and 13 CFR 301.5.                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  A project period generally consists of increments of 12 months for a total of 36

                                                                                    
  months, depending on past performance and the availability of funds. Funds are    
  disbursed quarterly. EDA recently has increased the number of its Planning

  investments being funded on a 3-year basis.                                       
Reports:                                                                            
  Recipients are subject to all federal laws and to all federal, Department of      
  Commerce and EDA policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to federal      
  financial assistance awards, including but not limited to 15 CFR Parts 14 or 24,  
  as applicable. Standard financial and performance reports are required, and       
  special reports for specific projects may be requested. See 13 CFR 302.6 and      
  302.16.                                                                           
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, recipients that      
  are States, local governments, non-profit organizations, and institutions of      
  higher education are subject to the requirements contained in the Single Audit    
  Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501, et seq.). States, local governments,      
  and non-profit organizations that expend $500,000 or more in a year in federal    
  awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted for that year. In  
  addition, recipients must provide EDA, the Inspector General of the Department    
  of Commerce, and the Comptroller General of the United States with access to      
  its properties to examine all materials necessary to verify compliance with       
  investment requirements. See 13 CFR 302.14(b).                                    
Records:                                                                            
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical         
  reports, and other records of recipients and sub-recipients must be maintained    
  according to the terms of the investment award.                                   
Account Identification:                                                             


190                                                                           11-08

  13-2050-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Investments) FY 07 $29,597,524; FY 08 $27,000,000; and FY 09 est
  $27,000,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2007, Planning Investments ranged from $2,000 to $742,000. The average
  award was $71,839. The average award for District Organizations was $72,450;
  the average for Indian Tribes' projects was $51,058; and the average for States
  and all other area projects was $105,160.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, 412 Planning investments were awarded to District Organizations,
  Indian Tribes, States, urban areas, and sub-state political subdivisions. These
  entities carried out a variety of Planning efforts aimed at generating jobs and
  income for their region and for unemployed and underemployed residents.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  13 CFR Parts 300-303.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for EDA regional office contact
  information.
Headquarters Office:
  Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce, 1401
  Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20230.
Web Site Address:
  www.eda.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of projects funded through the Planning Program include: (a) support
  for Planning Organizations in the creation, implementation, revision, or
  replacement of a CEDS; (b) development and implementation of training
  programs for Planning Organization members; (c) support for community
  planning events; (d) implementation of CEDS-related projects; (e) development
  of economic strategies in the wake of a military base realignment; and (f)
  disaster-mitigation planning.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  EDA will review all applications for Planning assistance for the feasibility of the
  budget presented and conformance with EDA's statutory and regulatory
  requirements. EDA will assess the economic development needs of the affected
  region in which the proposed project will be located, as well as applicant's
  capacity to implement the proposed project. Furthermore, EDA will select
  applications competitively based on strategic areas of interest and priority
  considerations identified in the applicable FFO. EDA also may consider the
  degree to which a proposed project: (a) is market-based and results driven; (b)
  has strong organizational leadership; (c) advances productivity, innovation and
  entrepreneurship; (d) looks beyond the immediate economic horizon, anticipates
  economic changes and diversifies the local and regional economy; and (e)
  demonstrates a high degree of local commitment. Planning investment
  applications must meet EDA's investment policy guidelines as set out in 13 CFR
  301.8, the requirements of 13 CFR Part 303, as applicable, and other
  requirements provided in the applicable FFO.
11.303 ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT-TECHNICAL
ASSISTANCE
   (National, University Center and Local Technical Assistance)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 207 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as
  amended (PWEDA), (42 U.S.C. 3147).
OBJECTIVES:
  EDA oversees three technical assistance programs (National, Local and
  University Center) that promote economic development and alleviate
  unemployment, underemployment, and out-migration in distressed regions.
  These programs provide grants or cooperative agreements (referred to
  throughout this document as investments) to: (1) invest in institutions of higher
  education to establish and operate University Centers to provide technical
  assistance to public and private sector organizations with the goal of enhancing
  local economic development; (2) support innovative approaches to stimulate
  economic development in distressed regions; (3) disseminate information and
  studies of economic development issues of national significance; and (4) finance
  feasibility studies and other projects leading to local economic development.
  These programs aid the long-range economic development of regions with severe
  unemployment and low per capita income.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Technical assistance is used to provide information, data, and know-how in
