  evaluating, shaping and implementing specific projects and programs that             
  promote economic development in economically distressed regions.                     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Most technical assistance recipients are private or public nonprofit organizations   
  and educational institutions. As defined in 13 CFR 300.3, 'eligible recipients'      
  include a State, city, county, or other political subdivision of a State, including a
  special purpose unit of a State or local government engaged in economic or           
  infrastructure development activities, or a consortium of such political             
  subdivision, an institution of higher education or a consortium of institutions of   
  higher education, an Economic Development District organization, a private or        
  public nonprofit organization or association, including a faith-based nonprofit      
  organization, acting in cooperation with officials of a political subdivision of a   
  State, or an Indian Tribe, or a consortium of Indian Tribes. Individuals,            
  companies, corporations, and associations organized for profit are not eligible.     
  As used in this paragraph, 'State' includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,         
  the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the               
  Northern Mariana Islands, the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated        
  States of Micronesia, and the Republic of Palau. Program funds cannot be             
  awarded to individuals and for profit organizations to start or expand a private     
  enterprise.                                                                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  None. Investments are intended to finance projects that would be useful in           
  alleviating or preventing conditions of excessive unemployment or                    
  underemployment.                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  A nonprofit organization is required to submit its articles of incorporation         
  charters and a certificate of good standing issued by the State in which it is       
  incorporated. Applicants must demonstrate capability to complete the work            
  program. In addition, a recipient that is a non-profit organization must work in     
  cooperation with a political subdivision of a State unless EDA waives that           
  requirement because the project has a significant regional or national scope.        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Except for applications that have a national or multi-regional focus, applications   
  are subject to the requirements of Executive Order 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs" and implementing regulations at 13 CFR 302.9.            
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  EDA will award investment assistance in accord with the procedures set forth in      
  the applicable announcement of federal funding opportunity (FFO).                    
Deadlines:                                                                             
  See deadlines announced in the applicable FFO.                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From one month to four months.                                                       
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Each fiscal year, two EDA regional offices will provide a three-year project         
  period for each University Center selected for funding under the requisite           
  competition, with the initial award being made for the first year of the project     
  period. Funding beyond the initial year is dependent upon the availability of        
  funds and satisfactory performance, as determined by EDA and expressed in            
  written notice. The servicing EDA regional office will contact current               
  University Center operators regarding the procedures for applying for                
  continuation funding. National and local technical assistance projects are           
  typically funded for a single project period without any pre-set expectation of      
  renewal. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of             
  performance is at EDA's sole discretion.                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Generally, the amount of the EDA grant may not exceed 50 percent of the total        
  cost of the project. Projects may receive an additional amount that shall not        
  exceed 30 percent, based on the relative needs of the region in which the project    
  will be located, as determined by EDA. See Section 204(a) of PWEDA (42               
  U.S.C. 3144) and 13 CFR 301.4. For projects of a national scope under 13 CFR         
  part 306 (Training, Research and Technical Assistance), and for all other            
  projects under part 306, after the application of the first two sentences of this    
  paragraph, the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development has          
  the discretion to establish a maximum EDA investment rate of up to 100 percent       
  where the project (i) merits and is not otherwise feasible without an increase to    
  the EDA investment rate; or (ii) will be of no or only incidental benefit to the

  recipient. See Section 204(c)(3) of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3144) and 13 CFR                
  301.4(b)(4). Potential applicants should contact the appropriate EDA regional

  office to make this determination.                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Generally, the University Center Program funds applications on a three-year          
  basis with continuation awards made for each of the three years within a project     
  period. The length of the project period for national and local technical            
  assistance projects varies, but is usually for a period of one year. Funds are       
  disbursed as required.                                                               
Reports:                                                                               


                                                                                  11-08
  Recipients must submit financial and performance reports as required by the
  award agreement.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, recipients that
  are States, local governments, nonprofit organizations, and institutions of higher
  education are subject to the audit requirements contained in Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. States,
  local governments, and nonprofit organizations that expend $500,000 or more in
  a year in Federal awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted
  for that year.
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of recipients and sub-recipients are required to be
  maintained by the terms of the agreement. The recipient must retain records for
  three years after completion of the project or submission of the final financial
  reports, whichever is later, and have them readily available for inspection and
  audit.
Account Identification:
  13-2050-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Investments) FY 07 $8,161,852; FY 08 $9,400,000; and FY 09 est $9,400,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2007 range of investments: $690 to $430,000. The average grant for the
  University Center Program in fiscal year 2007 was $130,934; for National
  Technical Assistance projects, $266,394; and for Local Technical Assistance
  projects, $34,253.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, 74 projects were funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  13 CFR Parts 300-302, 306.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for EDA regional office contact
  information.
Headquarters Office:
  For University Center and Local Technical Assistance grants, refer to Appendix
  IV of the Catalog for EDA regional office addresses and telephone numbers. For
  National Technical Assistance grants, contact EDA, Department of Commerce,
  Office of Regional Affairs, 1401 Constitution Ave N.W., HCHB Room 7816,
  Washington DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-4208.
Web Site Address:
  www.eda.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.800, Minority Business Enterprise Centers; 23.009, Appalachian Local
  Development District Assistance; 59.037, Small Business Development Centers.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  University Center projects provide management and technical assistance
  services to communities, counties, districts, nonprofit development groups, and
  technology transfer assistance to firms. Local technical assistance projects help
  to determine the economic feasibility of various local development projects
  involving industrial, commercial, and other activities. National technical
  assistance projects may fund reports on innovative economic development or the
  dissemination of economic development information.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  EDA will screen all applications for the feasibility of the budget presented and
  conformance with EDA's statutory and regulatory requirements. EDA will assess
  the economic development needs of the affected region in which the proposed
  project will be located (or will service) as well as the capability of the proponent
  to implement the proposed project. Furthermore, EDA will select proposals
  competitively based on strategic areas of interest and priority considerations
  identified in the applicable FFO. EDA may also consider the degree to which an
  investment in the proposed project will satisfy one or more of the following
  criteria: (a) is market-based and results driven; (b) has strong organizational
  leadership; (c) advances productivity, innovation and entrepreneurship; (d) looks
  beyond the immediate economic horizon, anticipates economic changes and
  diversifies the local and regional economy and; (e) demonstrates a high degree
  of local commitment. An application for investment assistance must meet EDA's
  investment policy guidelines (as set out in 13 CFR 301.8) and other
  requirements as set out in the applicable FFO.
11.307 ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE
   (Economic Adjustment)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 209 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as
  amended (PWEDA), (42 U.S.C. 3149).
                                                                                    191
