OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To address the needs of distressed communities experiencing adverse economic        
  changes that may occur suddenly or over time, and generally result from             
  industrial or corporate restructuring, new Federal laws or requirements,            
  reduction in defense expenditures, depletion of natural resources, or natural       
  disaster. Economic Adjustment Assistance grants (referred to throughout this        
  document as investments) are intended to enhance a distressed community's           
  ability to compete economically by stimulating private investment in targeted       
  areas. Current investment priorities include proposals that: (a) promote            
  comprehensive, entrepreneurial, and innovation-based economic development           
  efforts that enhance the competitiveness of regions in the global economy. The      
  investments will be part of a long-term strategy to promote the region's success    
  in achieving a rising standard of living by supporting existing industry clusters,  
  developing emerging new clusters, or attracting new regional economic drivers;      
  (b) support technology-led economic development and reflect the important role      
  of linking universities and industry and technology transfers; and (c) advance      
  community-and faith-based social entrepreneurship in redevelopment strategies       
  for regions of chronic economic distress.                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Strategy investments help organize and carry out a planning process in order to     
  develop a Comprehensive Economic Development Strategy (CEDS) tailored to            
  the community's specific economic problems and opportunities. Implementation        
  investments support one or more activities identified in an EDA-approved            
  CEDS. Awards may be used for activities such as developing and updating a           
  CEDS and for implementing the CEDS by carrying out projects for site                
  acquisition and preparation, construction, rehabilitation, and equipping            
  facilities, technical assistance, market or industry research and analysis, and     
  other activities set out in 13 CFR 307.3.                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible applicants for EDA investment assistance include a State, city, county,    
  or other political subdivision of a State, including a special purpose unit of a    
  State or local government engaged in economic or infrastructure development         
  activities, or a consortium of such political subdivision, an institution of higher 
  education or a consortium of institutions of higher education, an Economic          
  Development District organization, a private or public nonprofit organization or    
  association, including a faith-based non-profit organization, acting in             
  cooperation with officials of a political subdivision of a State, or an Indian      
  Tribe, or a consortium of Indian Tribes. Individuals, companies, corporations,      
  and associations organized for profit are not eligible. As used in this paragraph,  
  'State' includes the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands,          
  Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands,             
  the Republic of the Marshall Islands, the Federated States of Micronesia, and the   
  Republic of Palau.                                                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  None. Investments are intended to alleviate long-term deterioration and sudden      
  and severe economic dislocation in distressed communities and regions.              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants for assistance must develop a CEDS that identifies the actual or         
  anticipated adjustment problem and prescribe steps to address that problem.         
  Implementation investment applications must be consistent with an approved          
  CEDS.                                                                               
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." EDA's Regional Office representative or                
  Economic Development Representative (EDR) will meet with the proponent to           
                                                                                      
  determine whether preparation of a project proposal is appropriate. If

                                                                                      
  appropriate, the proponent will be requested to prepare a brief project proposal

                                                                                      
  according to an outline provided by the EDR. Following a review by the EDR

                                                                                      
  and regional office staff, the Regional Director will determine whether to invite a

                                                                                      
  formal application. An environmental impact assessment is necessary; an

                                                                                      
  environmental impact statement is required for this program.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  This If an application is invited by the regional office, an EDR or regional office

                                                                                      
  representative will provide necessary application materials. This program is

                                                                                      
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 and 15 CFR Part 24.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Applications are invited and approved by the Regional Director.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:

  Proposals are accepted on a continuing basis and applications are invited and       
  processed as received.                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Normally, two months are required for a final decision after the receipt of a       
  completed application invited by EDA that meets all statutory and regulatory        
  requirements.                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               


192                                                                             11-08

Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The maximum investment rate shall not exceed 50 percent of the project cost,
  except that the project may receive an investment rate up to 80 percent based on
  relative needs as measured by the severity and duration of unemployment and
  the per capita income level and extent of underemployment in the region. Indian
  Tribes may be eligible for an investment rate of 100 percent. In addition, States
  or political subdivisions of a State that have exhausted their effective borrowing
  and taxing capacity or nonprofit organizations that have exhausted their
  effective borrowing capacity may also be eligible for a 100 percent rate. On
  average, EDA investment assistance covers approximately 50 percent of project
  costs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  With the exception of strategy grants, quarterly financial reports are required
  until one year after final disbursement of funds. Reports on revolving loan fund
  investments are initially required semi-annually but may be changed to annual
  reports with the consent of the agency. Recipients also are required to report on
  program performance and project outcomes at intervals prescribed by the agency
  in compliance with Government Performance Results Act of 1993.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, recipients that
  are States, local governments, nonprofit organizations, and institutions of higher
  learning are subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. States,
  local governments, and nonprofit organizations that expend $500,000 or more in
  a year in Federal awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted
  for that year.
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports and other records of recipients and sub-recipients are required to be
  maintained by the terms of the agreement. The grantee must retain records for
  three years after completion of the project or submission of the final financial
  report and be readily available for inspection and audit.
Account Identification:
  13-2050-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Investments) FY 07 $64,228,016; FY 08 $42,300,000; and FY 09 est
  $40,330,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2007, grants ranged from $13,382 to 6,080,000. The average grant for
  Economic Adjustment Assistance in FY 2007 was $568,390.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, 113 projects were funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  13 CFR Parts 300-302, 307.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for EDA regional office contact
  information.
Headquarters Office:
  Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce, 1401
  Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington, DC 20230.
Web Site Address:
  www.eda.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Investments awarded under the Economic Adjustment Assistance Program have
  included: (a) strategies for recovery from plant closure and major permanent job
  loss; (b) rehabilitation of vacant industrial facilities for multi-tenant use or
  entrepreneurship or innovation incubators; and (c) revolving loan funds or
  recapitalization of revolving loan funds.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  EDA will review all investment applications for the feasibility of the budget
  presented and conformance with EDA statutory and regulatory requirements.
  EDA will assess the economic development needs of the region in which the
  proposed project is located, as well as the capacity of the applicant to implement
  the proposed project. Furthermore, EDA will select proposals competitively
  based on strategic areas of interest and priority considerations identified in the
  applicable announcement of federal funding opportunity (FFO). EDA also may
  consider the degree to which a proposed project: (a) is market-based and results
  driven; (b) has strong organizational leadership; (c) advances productivity,
  innovation and entrepreneurship; (d) looks beyond the immediate economic
  horizon, anticipates economic changes, and diversifies the local and regional
  economy; and (e) demonstrates a high degree of local commitment.
  Applications for Economic Adjustment investment assistance must meet EDA
  investment policy guidelines as set out in 13 CFR 301.8, the requirements set
  out in 13 CFR part 307, as applicable, and other requirements as provided in the
  applicable FFO.
