11.312 RESEARCH AND EVALUATION PROGRAM                                                 
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  COMMERCE                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Section 207 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965, as             
  amended (PWEDA), 42 U.S.C. 3147.                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  The Research and Evaluation Program of the Economic Development                      
  Administration (EDA) supports rigorous, practitioner accessible research of          
  leading, world class economic development practice that advances our                 
  understanding of economic development. Current funding priorities include            
  proposals that enhance regional competitiveness by focusing on                       
  entrepreneurship and innovation strategies.                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The Research and Evaluation Program funds research, including evaluative

                                                                                       
  research, and national technical assistance projects to promote competitiveness

                                                                                       
  and innovation in urban and rural regions throughout the United States.

                                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                       
  In accordance with PWEDA, eligible applicants for and recipients of EDA

                                                                                       
  investment assistance include a(n): (a) District Organization (as defined in 13

                                                                                       
  CFR Part 304.2); (b) Indian Tribe or a consortium of Indian Tribes; (c) State, a

                                                                                       
  city, or other political subdivision of a State, including a special purpose unit of

                                                                                       
  a State or local government engaged in economic or infrastructure development

                                                                                       
  activities, or a consortium of political subdivisions; (d) institution of higher

                                                                                       
  education or a consortium of institutions of higher education; or (e) public or      
  private non-profit organization or association acting in cooperation with officials  
  of a political subdivision of a State. See section 3 of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3122)       
  and 13 CFR Part 300.3. For-profit, private-sector entities do not qualify for        
  investment assistance under this program.                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Not applicable. Research and Evaluation investments are designed to finance          
  projects for research into techniques that promote competitiveness and               
  innovation in urban and rural regions throughout the United States.                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Researcher qualifications are considered in the application review process.          
  Applicants must have demonstrated expertise in the proposed area of study.           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                       
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applicants should submit applications in accordance with the requirements of         
  13 CFR Part 306 and the applicable federal funding opportunity (FFO)                 
  announcement. EDA Headquarters can provide assistance in connection with             
  proposed Research and Evaluation projects. This program is not subject to            
  Executive Order 12372. This program is subject to provisions of 15 CFR Part          
  14 for institutions of higher education and other nonprofit organizations or         
  provisions of 15 CFR Part 24 for State, local and Indian Tribal governments, as      
  applicable. Costs will be determined in accordance with applicable federal cost      
  principles and uniform administrative requirements.                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Development (Assistant              
  Secretary) is the selecting official for Research and Evaluation projects. EDA       
  will award investment assistance in accord with the procedures set forth in the      
  applicable FFO.                                                                      
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Please see the deadline set forth in the applicable FFO.                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Generally, two months are required for EDA to reach a final decision after           
  receipt of a completed application that meets all requirements.                      
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Generally, EDA investment assistance may not exceed 50 percent of the total          
  cost of the project. Projects may receive an additional amount that shall not        
  exceed 30 percent, based on the relative needs of the region in which the project    
  will be located, as determined by EDA. See section 204(a) of PWEDA (42               
  U.S.C. 3144) and 13 CFR Part 301.4(b)(1). For Research and Evaluation                
  projects of a national scope under 13 CFR Part 306, the Assistant Secretary has

  the discretion to establish a maximum EDA investment rate of up to 100 percent

  where the project (a) merits and is not otherwise feasible without an increase of    
  EDA's investment rate; or (b) will be of no or only incidental benefit to the        
  recipient. See section 204(c)(3) of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3144) and 13 CFR Part           
  301.4(b)(4). While cash contributions are preferred, in-kind contributions, such     
  as contributions of space, equipment, assumptions of debt, and services, may         
  provide the required nonfederal share of the total project cost. If required,        
  applicants must show that the matching share is committed to the project for the

                                                                                 11-08 
  entire project period, available as needed and not conditioned or encumbered in
  any way that precludes its use consistent with the requirements of EDA
  Investment Assistance. See section 204(b) of PWEDA (42 U.S.C. 3144) and 13
  CFR Part 301.5.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The length of time of a project period varies, but is generally one year. Grant
  funds are disbursed as required and justified. See 13 CFR Part 306.3.
Reports:
  Recipients are subject to all federal laws and to federal, Department of
  Commerce and EDA policies, regulations, and procedures applicable to federal
  financial assistance awards, including, but not limited to, 15 CFR Parts 14 or 24,
  as applicable. Standard financial and performance reports are required and
  special reports for specific projects may be requested. See 13 CFR Parts 302.6
  and 302.16.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, recipients that
  are States, local governments, nonprofit organizations, and institutions of higher
  education are subject to the requirements of the Single Audit Act Amendments
  of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.). Commercial organizations shall be subject to
  the audit requirements as stipulated in the award agreement. States, local
  governments, and nonprofit organizations that expend $500,000 or more in a
  year in federal awards shall have a single or program-specific audit conducted
  for that year.
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of recipients or sub-recipients must be maintained
  pursuant to the terms of investment award.
Account Identification:
  13-2050-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Investments) FY 07 $993,236; FY 08 $470,000; and FY 09 $470,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  In FY 2007, grants ranged from $160,000 to $349,865. The average EDA
  support was $248,309.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, four projects were funded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  13 CFR parts 300-302, 306.
Regional or Local Office:
  Refer to Appendix IV of the Catalog for EDA regional office contact
  information.
Headquarters Office:
  Economic Development Administration, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1401
  Constitution Avenue, NW, Washington DC 20230.
Web Site Address:
  www.eda.gov
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Projects funded under the Research and Evaluation Program have included
  reports on innovative economic development strategies such as: (a) "Regional
  Clusters of Innovation, Driving a Long-Term Strategy" by Monitor Company
  Group; (b) "Unlocking Rural Competitiveness: The Role of Regional Clusters"
  by Purdue and Indiana Universities; and (c) "A Resource Guide for Technology-
  Based Economic Development: Positioning Universities as Drivers, Fostering
  Entrepreneurship, Increasing Access to Capital" by the State Science and
  Technology Institute.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  EDA will review all Research and Evaluation applications for the feasibility of
  the budget presented and conformance with EDA statutory and regulatory
  requirements. EDA will assess the economic development needs of the region
  served by the proposed project, as well as the applicants capacity to implement
  the proposed project. Further, EDA will select proposals competitively based on
  strategic areas of interest and priority considerations identified in the applicable
  FFO. EDA also may consider the degree to which a proposed project: (a) is
  market-based and results driven; (b) has strong organizational leadership; (c)
  advances productivity, innovation and entrepreneurship; (d) looks beyond the
  immediate economic horizon, anticipates economic changes and diversifies the
  local and regional economy; and (e) demonstrates a high degree of local
  commitment. Applications must meet EDA's investment policy guidelines as set
  forth in 13 CFR Part 301.8, the requirements of 13 CFR Part 306, as applicable,
  and other requirements as provided in the applicable FFO.
11.313 TRADE ADJUSTMENT ASSISTANCE FOR FIRMS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Chapters 3 and 5, Title II of the Trade Act of 1974, as amended (Trade Act), 19
                                                                                     193
