  U.S.C. 2341 et seq.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide trade adjustment assistance to firms and industries adversely affected   
  by an increase in imports of directly competitive or similar articles to those with 
  articles produced by the firm, and to help implement the firms' strategies to       
  guide their economic recovery.                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Under Chapter 3 of Title II of the Trade Act of 1974, a firm may apply to the       
  Economic Development Administration (EDA) of the Department of Commerce             
  for certification of eligibility to apply for trade adjustment assistance (TAA).    
  Interested firms that believe they meet the requirements set forth in 13 CFR part   
  315 may contact EDA or one of the EDA-funded Trade Adjustment Assistance            
  Centers (TAACs). TAACs will assist firms, at no cost, in completing and             
  submitting a petition (Form ED-840P or any successor form) to EDA. Before a         
  firm receives technical assistance under the program, the firm must have an         
  adjustment proposal approved by EDA. Usually the adjustment proposal, which         
  includes an unbiased diagnostic of the firm's strengths, weaknesses,                
  opportunities and threats, is prepared by the TAAC in cooperation with the          
  certified firm. The adjustment proposal also identifies technical assistance tasks, 
  which when implemented, will guide the firm toward economic recovery. The           
  adjustment proposal must also demonstrate that the implementation of the            
  technical assistance tasks has a reasonable chance helping the firm recover. The    
  firm must pay at least 25 percent of the cost of preparing the adjustment           
  proposal. After a firm's adjustment proposal is accepted by EDA, the firm is        
  authorized to apply for technical assistance to implement the recovery strategy.    
  The technical assistance is usually provided by a private consultant, who is        
  jointly hired by the certified firm and the TAAC. The certified firm and the        
  TAAC each typically pay one half of the consultant's fees. Actual provision of      
  TAA will depend on the feasibility of the firm's adjustment proposal, compliance    
  with the requirements of the Trade Act, EDA's regulations and guidelines, and       
  the availability of funds. Organizations representing trade-injured industries are  
  eligible under the Trade Act to apply to EDA for industry-wide assistance.          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Section 253 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2343(b)) provides that grants may be        
  awarded to "intermediary organizations (including Trade Adjustment Assistance       
  Centers)" to provide assistance to trade-injured firms. For an industry             
  association or other organizations to be eligible for industry assistance under     
  section 265 of the Trade Act (19 U.S.C. 2355(a)), the applicant must submit         
  evidence demonstrating that the industry faces import competition and includes      
  a substantial number of Trade Act-certified firms or worker groups.                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Only manufacturing and producing firms certified by EDA on behalf of the            
  Secretary of Commerce are eligible for assistance under the TAA program.            
  Industries that can demonstrate they have been injured by imports and have a        
  substantial number of Trade Act certified firm or worker groups may also            
  benefit. The principal benefit is cost-shared technical assistance: the TAA         
  program pays up to one-half of the cost of assistance by private-sector             
  consultants and contractors for operational improvements at certified firms.        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The TAACs act as intermediaries for this program between EDA and the firm.          
  Entities seeking industry-wide assistance must contact EDA staff to discuss their   
  needs, describe the import injury and determine if funding is available for         
  industry-wide projects.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Not applicable. This program is excluded from coverage under Executive Order        
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs".                              
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The nationwide network of 11 TAACs apply to EDA each year for funding for           
  the coming fiscal year. Industry associations or other organizations seeking        
  industry assistance must submit an application (SF-424) if invited to do so by      
  EDA.                                                                                
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Awards to TAACs are made based upon submitted applications, previous                
  performance under cooperative agreements with EDA, and the availability of          
  funds. Acceptance of an application or amended application for a cooperative        
  agreement does not ensure funding by EDA. Awards to industries are made             
  based on conformance with program requirements and availability of funds.           
Deadlines:                                                                            
  There are no deadlines, as long as the application allows enough time for           
  processing to receive fiscal year funds.                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  EDA makes a determination on a firm's certification for eligibility to apply for    
  TAA within 60 days of receipt of its petition. Decisions on adjustment proposals    
  are typically made within two to three weeks of receipt by EDA. Decisions on        
  TAAC applications or industry-wide assistance requests are normally made            
  within two months of receipt of a fully complete application by EDA.                
Appeals:                                                                              
  There is no appeal procedure for proponents or recipients. A petitioning firm       


194                                                                             11-08

  whose petition for certification was denied may appeal pursuant to 13 CFR
  315.11.
Renewals:
  EDA's cooperative agreements with each of the 11 TAACs are usually renewed;
  industry grants generally are not renewed.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Matching share requirements are as follows: Each certified firm must pay at
  least twenty-five (25) percent of the cost of the preparation of its adjustment
  proposal. Each firm requesting $30,000 or less in total adjustment assistance in
  its approved adjustment proposal must pay at least twenty-five (25) percent of
  the cost of that adjustment assistance. Each firm requesting more than $30,000
  in total technical assistance in its approved adjustment proposal must pay at
  least fifty (50) percent of the cost of that adjustment assistance. Organizations
  representing trade-injured industries must pay at least fifty (50) percent of the
  total cash cost of the adjustment assistance, in addition to appropriate in-kind
  contributions. There are no matching share requirements for TAA provided by
  the TAACs to firms for certification or for administrative expenses of the
  TAACs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally one year for TAAC investments and the amount of time needed to
  complete the project for industry grants. The TAA program is a nationwide
  federal program designed to help U.S. firms that have experienced business
  decline and loss of employment due to imports of like or directly competitive
  products.
Reports:
  Periodic reporting of operating results and progress, financial statements, and
  summary of funds spent.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, recipients that
  are States, local governments, nonprofit organizations, and institutions of higher
  education are subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501 et seq.). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award documents.
  States, local governments, and nonprofit organizations that expend $500,000 or
  more in a year in federal awards shall have a single or program-specific audit
  conducted for that year.
Records:
  Records are required to be maintained for three years. All financial and
  programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical reports, and other
  records of recipients or sub-recipients are required to be maintained by the terms
  of the agreement. The recipient must retain records for three years after
  submission of the final financial report, and have them readily available for
  inspection and audit.
Account Identification:
  13-2050-0-1-452.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $12,912,953; FY 08 $14,100,000; and FY 09
  est $14,100,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  TAAC investments in FY 2007 ranged from $930,939 to $1,642,629. The
  average grant was $1,173,905.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In FY 2007, EDA, through the TAACs, provided assistance to petitioning firms
  as follows: 135 petitions were certified as eligible to receive trade adjustment
  assistance; 126 adjustment proposals were accepted.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Copies of pertinent regulations (13 CFR Part 315), guidelines, and forms are
  available from EDA, the TAACs or the TAAC website at www.taacenters.org.
  Allowable costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for
  State, local, and Indian Tribal governments; OMB Circular A-122 for nonprofit
  organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for educational institutions; and 48 CFR Part
  31 for commercial organizations. Uniform administrative requirements will be in
  accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for institutions of higher education and other
  non-profit and commercial organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and
  local governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Economic Development Administration, Department of Commerce, 1401
  Constitution Avenue N.W., Washington, DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-
  4495.
Web Site Address:
  www.eda.gov and www.taacenters.org
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  17.245, Trade Adjustment Assistance.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  There are 11 Trade Adjustment Assistance Centers (TAACs) funded by EDA,
  which cover the 50 States, and the District of Columbia. The TAACs, through
  cooperative agreements with EDA, help firms become certified in order to
  receive TAA. Common types of technical assistance that firms may receive
