  under the TAA program include market research, quality assurance completion           
  (ISO-9000 designation, for example) and management information systems                
  guidance. Industries have been aided in developing new manufacturing                  
  machines and procedures, technological innovations, expanding exporting               
  opportunities, marketing studies, and product diversification.                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  EDA invites existing (currently funded) TAACs to submit either new or                 
  amended applications provided they have performed successfully and complied           
  with previous conditions in their cooperative agreements with EDA and                 
  contingent upon the availability of funds. EDA also may invite new TAACs to           
  submit applications through an applicable Federal Funding Opportunity (FFO)           
  announcement. EDA generally evaluates existing (currently funded) TAACs               
  based on: (i) performance under cooperative agreements with EDA and                   
  compliance with terms and conditions if such cooperative agreements; (ii)             
  proposed scope of work, budget and application or amended application; and            
  (iii) availability of funds.                                                          
                                                                                        
11.400 GEODETIC SURVEYS AND SERVICES (GEODESY                                           
                                                                                        
AND APPLICATIONS OF THE NATIONAL GEODETIC                                               
REFERENCE SYSTEM)                                                                       
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                      
                                                                                        
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE

                                                                                        
AUTHORIZATION:

  Coast and Geodetic Survey Act, Public Law 80-373, 33 U.S.C. 883a, 883d,               
  883e, 33 U.S.C. 892, and 15 U.S.C. 1525.                                              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  To provide national, coordinated spatial reference system at various specified        
  intervals which provide scale, orientation, coordinated positions, and elevations     
  of specific points for use in surveying, boundary delineations and demarcation,       
  mapping, planning, and development; to provide assistance to State, local,            
  municipal, and regional agencies in the development and implementation of             
                                                                                        
  Multipurpose Land Information Systems (MPLIS)/Geographic Information

                                                                                        
  Systems (GIS) pilot projects and spatial reference system development and/or

                                                                                        
  enhancement, and Height Modernization. For the Joint Hydrographic Center

                                                                                        
  (JHC) improve the techniques and technology of hydrographic surveying,

                                                                                        
  hydrographic services, and ocean mapping.

                                                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                        
  Project Grants.

USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              
  Extend National Spatial Reference System into areas not adequately covered to         
  meet infrastructure needs. Use of basic data for survey system in local               
  densification is unrestricted. Spatial Reference System coordinates and               
  elevations describe baselines from which restricted coastal boundaries are            
  delineated and other boundaries are marked. The National Spatial Reference            
  System forms the standard of measurement on which State plane coordinate              
  systems, land and utility records, and boundary delineations are based. Federal       
                                                                                        
  funding (grants) are restricted to those State, local, municipal, or regional, and or

                                                                                        
  universities specifically selected by the U.S. Congress, in annual Federal

                                                                                        
  appropriations legislation. To conduct research and carry out development

                                                                                        
  programs at the Joint Hydrographic Center at the University of New Hampshire

                                                                                        
  to improve the techniques and technology of hydrographic surveying,

                                                                                        
  hydrographic services, and ocean mapping, and to conduct bathymetric research

                                                                                        
  in support of delineation of an extended continental shelf.

                                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  State, local, municipal, universities and/or regional agencies. For the JHC,

                                                                                        
  limited to the University of New Hampshire by Congress and through Joint

                                                                                        
  Institute relationship with NOAA.

                                                                                        
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                        
  State, local, municipal, universities and/or regional agencies. For the JHC

                                                                                        
  limited to the University of New Hampshire by Congress and through Joint

                                                                                        
  Institute relationship with NOAA.

                                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                        
  Annual Congressional appropriations legislation. An official of the State, local,

                                                                                        
  municipal, university and/or regional agency should certify as the official

                                                                                        
  authorized, in accordance with State, local, municipal, or regional agency law,

                                                                                        
  to commit the State, local, municipal, university and/or regional agency to

                                                                                        
  participate in the grant program, to sign project documents, and to receive

                                                                                        
  payments. Eligibility of costs will be determined in accordance with OMB

                                                                                        
  Circular No. A-87 for State and local governments. For the JHC, an approved

                                                                                        
  official of the University of New Hampshire should certify the application to

                                                                                        
  commit the University to participate in the cooperative agreement and to receive

                                                                                        
  payments in accordance with OMB circularsA-110 and A-21.

                                                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                        
  The standard application forms, as furnished by NOAA and required by 15 CFR

                                                                                        
  Part 24, must be used when applying for Federal funding. These forms can be

                                                                                        
  obtained from the NOAA Grants Management Division. Informal                           
  preapplication conferences are recommended. Consultation and assistance is            


                                                                                  11-08 
  available from NOAA in the preparation of an application. These programs are
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for information on the process the State
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the
  program for review. For the JHC, the standard application forms, as furnished
  by NOAA and required by 15 CFR Part 24, must be used when applying for
  Federal funding. These forms can be obtained from the NOAA Grants
  Management Division.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Submission of grant application on Standard Form
  424 to the Director, National Geodetic Survey listed in Appendix IV of the
  Catalog. This program is subject to the provisions of 15 CFR Part 24, and OMB
  Circular No. A-110. For the JHC, submission of grant application on Standard
  Form 424 to the NOAA Co-Director, Joint Hydrographic Center.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by the National Geodetic Survey and processed and
  awarded by the NOAA Grants Division. For the JHC, Applications are reviewed
  by the NOAA National Ocean Service and processed and awarded by the NOAA
  Grants Division.
Deadlines:
  Grant applications must be submitted to the National Geodetic Survey, a
  minimum of 90 working days in advance of the desired effective date. For the
  JHC, grant applications should be submitted to the NOAA Co-Director of the
  Joint Hydrographic Center, a minimum of 90 working days in advance of the
  desired effective date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 45 to 90 working days from date of receipt of proposal in the National
  Geodetic Survey. For the JHC, from 45 to 90 working days from date of receipt
  of proposal in the Joint Hydrographic Center.
Appeals:
  No formal appeal procedure for grant applications. If grant applications are
  unacceptable, the reasons are fully stated to the applicants. If the applicants
  desire to resubmit grant applications, projects must be revised in accordance
  with recommended changes.
Renewals:
  No renewal, however, an approved on-going project can be extended by
  submission of an amendment request for continuation and/or supplemental
  funding, providing the request for extension is received 60 days prior to the end
  of the award period. For the JHC, An approved on-going project can be
  extended by submission of an amendment request for continuation and/or
  supplemental funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Specific cost-sharing or matching requirements is generally defined in the
  legislation providing funds. For the JHC, not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are normally issued for a 12-month period. The funds are released as
  required. For JHC, the cooperative agreement is normally issued for a one to
  five year period. The funds are released as required.
Reports:
  Semi-annual and final progress reports are required for Federally financed multi-
  year pilot projects. Progress reports may be in the form of a manuscript.
  Quarterly financial reports are also required. For JHC, semi-annual and final
  progress reports and financial reports are required.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations, (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of grantees or sub-grantees are required to be
  maintained by the terms of the agreement. The grantee must retain records for
  three years from the date when the final expenditure report is submitted.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Grants-NGS) FY 07 $9,342,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported. FY 07 $7,200,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported. Alabama Freight Mobility Study: FY 07 $675,921; FY 08 est not
  available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Funding was provided in FY 2004 to the California Spatial Reference Center,
  the Louisiana Spatial Reference Center, the States of Mississippi, North
                                                                                    195
