  Carolina, South Carolina, Wisconsin, Texas, Kentucky, Alabama and                   
  Washington. In addition to these states, a grant is planned for FY 2006 to          
  Arizona. For FY 2006 funding was not received to continue grant activities in       
  Louisiana and Washington. Sponsored a meeting of experts to discuss models          
  used in the Prince William Sound Science Center(PWSSC) for a Nowcast-               
  Forcast System (NFS). The proposed project will complete the implementation         
  of a Prince William Sound (PWS) Nowcast-Forecast Information System (PWS            
  NFS) in Prince William Sound. Focus areas are 1) integration and coupling of        
  ongoing modeling efforts at a new and enhanced computing and                        
  communications environment at the PWSSC/Oil Spill Recovery Institute (OSRI)         
  in Cordova, Alaska; 2) development of new information products for users in a       
  variety of media including new Internet web pages; and 3) expansion of near         
  real-time observational network elements in support of the model and user           
  requirements. Examples of funded projects are more observation systems and          
  experimentation to test models. The Joint Hydrographic Center has developed         
  several new technologies for ocean mapping and hydrographic surveying that          
  will greatly increase the quality and productivity of hydrographic surveying and    
  ocean mapping in the United States. In particular, new techniques for multibeam     
  sonar data processing will have major positive impacts. 3-D visualization           
  techniques have been developed and demonstrated that will greatly improve the       
  study of whale behavior below the surface.                                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for          
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for               
  nonprofit and for- profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of      
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial        
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for                 
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial    
  organizations, and with 15 CRF Part 24 for state and local governments. For         
  JHC, allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-21         
  for institutions of higher education.                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Not applicable. Joint Hydrographic Center, University of New Hampshire,             
  Durham, NH 03824. Telephone: (603) 862-4559.                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Grant Program Office/Geodetic Service Division, National Geodetic Survey,           
  National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration,            
  Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-3228. For JHC, not                    
  applicable.                                                                         
                                                                                      
Web Site Address:

  http://www.ngs.noaa.gov/, for the JHC: http://chartmaker.ncd.noaa.gov/              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  11.003, Census Geography.                                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Projects involving applications of the NSRS. The Joint Hydrographic Center.         
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Projects are selected by Congress. The State, local, municipal, universities        
  and/or regional agency designated to conduct the project is specified. The Joint    
  Hydrographic Center was established by funding specifically designated by           
  Congress. The University designated to conduct the project is specified.            
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
11.405 ANADROMOUS FISH CONSERVATION ACT                                               
PROGRAM                                                                               
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:

  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE AND FISH AND WILDLIFE SERVICE,                               
  DEPARTMENT OF THE INTERIOR                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Anadromous Fish Conservation Act of 1965, Public Law 89-304, as amended,            
  16 U.S.C. 757a. through f., as amended; Reorganization Plan No. 4, 1970.            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To cooperate with the States and other nonfederal interests in the conservation,    
  development, and enhancement of the nation's Anadromous fish stocks and the         
  fish in the Great Lakes and Lake Champlain that ascend streams to spawn, and        
  for the control of sea lamprey.                                                     
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds can be used for spawning area improvement, installment of fish ways,          
  data collection, construction of fish protection devices and hatcheries, and        
  research to improve management and increase Anadromous fish resources.              
  Funds cannot be used for law enforcement, public relations, or construction of      
  facilities and vessels, the primary purpose of which is to commercially harvest,    
  handle, and process fishery products. In addition, funds cannot be used for         
                                                                                      
  projects in the Columbia River Basin, with the exception of the state of Idaho.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Any interested person or organization may propose a cooperative undertaking.

                                                                                      
  However, all proposals must be coordinated with and submitted through the

                                                                                      
  State fishery agency having responsibility for the resource to be affected by the



196                                                                             11-08

  proposal.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  General public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposal with statement of work and budget estimate accompanied with SF-424.
   Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State
  and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency must be used
  for this program. Applications must be coordinated with the State fishery agency
  having responsibility for the resource affected by the proposal. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are evaluated by the National Marine Fisheries Service Regional
  office and processed by the Grants Management Division, Office of
  Administration, NOAA.
Deadlines:
  Project applications should be submitted 90 days in advance of desired effective
  date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  75 days or less.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of a project cost shall usually not exceed 50 percent. However,
  projects supporting an interstate Fishery Management Plan, the Federal share
  may be up to 90 percent. Real and personal property owned or controlled by a
  cooperator may be used in lieu of matching funds. Such real and personal
  property must be directly related to the work involved and must be an
  appropriate cost item of the project. Property may be used as matching funds
  until the total appraised value is exhausted.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are normally for a 12-month period but in some instances, award periods
  may extend beyond 12 months, or may be completed in less than 12 months.
  Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and is expended in
  accordance with DOC/NOAA finance and reporting procedures.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the
  Financial Assistance Award. Progress reports summarize work accomplished
  and explain situations where expected work has not been completed. Financial
  reports indicate use of funds during the REPORTING PERIOD.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant
  for three (3) years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In
  cases where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the
  three-year period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any
  issues associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention
  period; whichever has the latest end date.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 est $1,900,000; FY 08 est not
  available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $2,000 to $400,000. Average: $40,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Northeast Region: AFC work was conducted on the following projects:
  Connecticut Anadromous Fish Investigations; Atlantic Sturgeon in the Delaware
  River; Restoration of American Shad and River Herring in the Androscoggin
  River; A Study of the Striped Bass in the Marine District of New York State:
  Juvenile Striped Bass Fund; and Age and Time Specific Estimates of Natural
