  and Fishing Mortality Rates for Striped Bass (Virginia).                          
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  50 CFR Part 401; available from Director, Office of Sustainable Fisheries         
  (F/SF), National Marine Fisheries Service, 1315 East West Highway, Silver         
  Spring, MD 20910, or from regional offices without cost. Allowable cost will be   
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for State and local               
  governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for nonprofit and for-          
  profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of higher education;     
  and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial assistance             
  management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for institutions of          
  higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial organizations,   
  and with 15 CRF Part 24 for state and local governments.                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Potential applicants should make initial contact relative to this program at the  
  Regional Office of the National Marine Fisheries Service (NMFS) that has          
  jurisdiction over the geographic area that the project is proposed for. Alaska:   
  Alaska Regional Office, Shawn Carey, NMFS, P.O. Box 12668, Juneau, AK             
  99802- 1668. Telephone: (907) 586-7845. Use the same numbers for FTS. E-          
  mail: shawn.carey@noaa.gov. Northeast: Harold C. Mears, Director, State,          
  Federal and Constituent Programs Office, National Marine Fisheries Service,       
  Northeast Region, One Blackburn Drive, Gloucester, MA 01930- 2298.                
  Telephone: (978) 281-9243. Fax: (978) 281-9117. E-mail:                           
  Grants.Information@noaa.gov. Northwest Regional Office, Kevin Ford or             
  Stephen Freese, 7600 Sand Point Way, NE, Seattle, WA 98115-6349.                  
  Telephone: (206) 526-6115 or 6113). E-mail: Kevin.ford@noaa.gov, or               
  Stephen.freese@noaa.gov. Southeast: Cynthia Binkley, Federal Program              
  Officer, State/Federal Liaison Branch, 263 13th Ave. South, St. Petersburg, FL    
  33701, Telephone: (727) 824-5324. Fax: (727) 824-5364.Email:                      
  Cynthia.Binkley@noaa.gov. Southwest: Patricia Culver, Federal Program             
  Officer, 501 W. Ocean Blvd., Suite 4200, Long Beach, CA 90802. Telephone:         
  (562)980-4239. Fax: (562)980-4047. E-mail: trisha.culver@noaa.gov.                
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Headquarters Office Program Contact: Director, Office of Sustainable Fisheries,   
  National Marine Fisheries Service, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD      
  20910,Telephone: (301) 713-2334. Fax: (301)713-0596. E-mail:                      
  anne.lang@noaa.gov. Web Site Address:                                             
  http://www.nmfs.noaa.gov/sfa/state_federal/state_federal.htm.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  Southeast Region: http://sero.nmfs.noaa.gov/grants/grants.htm Northeast           
  Region: http://www.nero.noaa.gov/StateFedOff/ Northwest Region:                   
  http://www.nwr.noaa.gov/.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  11.407, Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986; 11.417, Sea Grant Support.     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Research projects to determine population characteristics and monitor catch,      
  escapement and production levels of Anadromous species, construction projects     
  to build or modernize hatcheries, operation and maintenance of hatcheries, fish   
  screens and fish ways, tagging studies, data collection, etc. Northeast Region:   
  AFC work was conducted on the following projects: Connecticut Anadromous          
  Fish Investigations; Atlantic Sturgeon in the Delaware River; Restoration of      
  American Shad & River Herring in the Androscoggin River; A Study of the           
  Striped Bass in the Marine District of New York State: Juvenile Striped Bass      
  Fund; and Age and Time Specific Estimates of Natural and Fishing Mortality        
  Rates for Striped Bass (Virginia). Southeast Region: Research continues to        
  determine status of striped bass population in Mississippi, the collection of     
  fishery-dependent data for American shad in South Carolina, and alosid            
  management in the Albemarle Sound area. Southwest Region: Salmon and              
  steelhead research, management and enhancement. Alaska Region: Salmon             
  Research and Management projects conducted by the Alaska Department of Fish       
  and Game and University of Washington.                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Applications are judged on the degree to which they contribute to the purpose of  
  the Act, expected results and benefits, soundness of scientific approach, cost    
  effectiveness, and other factors.                                                 
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
11.407 INTERJURISDICTIONAL FISHERIES ACT OF 1986                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                  
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986, Public Law 99-659, Title III, 16 U.S.C.
  4106, as amended.                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To assist States in managing interjurisdictional fisheries resources.             
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Formula Grants.                                                                   
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Funds can be used for research and enforcement of interjurisdictional fishery     
  resources, for the development of Fishery Management plans, and for restoration   


                                                                               11-08
  of resources damaged by a natural resource disaster.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The agency of a State government authorized under its laws to regulate
  commercial fisheries, and the Pacific, Atlantic, and Gulf Interstate Marine
  Fisheries Commissions.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The agency of a State government authorized under its laws to regulate
  commercial fisheries.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The Governor of each State shall notify the Secretary of Commerce which State
  agency is authorized to regulate commercial fisheries. An official of the State
  agency shall certify as the official(s) authorized in accordance with State law to
  commit the State to participation under the Act, to sign project documents, and
  to receive payments. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular
  No. A-87 for State and local governments.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency must be used
  for this program. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review. The standard
  application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required by 15 CFR
  Part 24, Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local Governments,
  must be used for this program.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Applications reviewed by the National Marine Fisheries Service Regional
  Program Office and processed by the NOAA Grants Management Division
  (OA32).
Deadlines:
  Project application should be submitted 90 days in advance of desired effective
  date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 75 days or less.
Appeals:
  No formal appeal procedure. If application is unacceptable the reasons are fully
  stated to the applicant. If the applicant desires to resubmit application, project
  must be revised in accordance with recommended changes.
Renewals:
  No renewal. However, an approved on-going project can be extended by
  submission of an amendment request.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Apportionment to States is based on average value and volume of raw fish
  landed by domestic commercial fishermen. No State that qualified for funding
  may receive less than 1/2 of 1 percent or more than 6 percent of funds
  appropriated in any fiscal year based on conditions of the act. Federal funding is
  not to exceed 75 percent of approved project costs, except where a project
  supports an approved interstate or Federal Fishery Management Plan, up to 90
  percent Federal funding may apply. The statistical factors used for fund
  allocation are: (1) Three year average of value of commercial fish landed, the
  source is the "Fishery Statistics of the U.S."; and (2) volume of fish landed, the
  source is the "Fishery Statistics of the U.S." No matching requirements for
  commission grants.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are normally for a 12 month period but in some instances, award periods
  may extend beyond 12 months, or may be completed in less than 12 months.
  Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and is expended in
  accordance with DOC/NOAA finance and reporting procedures.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the
  Financial Assistance Award. Progress reports summarize work accomplished
  and explain situations where expected work has not been completed. Financial
  reports indicate use of funds during the six-month period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant
  for three (3) years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In
  cases where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the
                                                                                     197
