  Coral Reef Conservation Act of 2000, Section 6403, Public Law 106-562.            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To assist States in implementing and enhancing Coastal Zone Management and        
  related programs that have been approved by the Secretary of Commerce.            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                
  Formula Grants; Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                          
  Cooperative Agreements may be used only to implement and enhance the States'      
  approved Coastal Zone Management programs. This includes personnel salaries,      
  travel and other related costs required to support the administration of the      
  program. Ten to twenty percent of Section 306 funds are available annually to     
  develop new program requirements under Section 309 in the areas of coastal        
  wetlands management and protection; natural hazards management (including         
  potential sea and Great Lakes level rise); public access improvements; reduction  
  of marine debris; assessment of cumulative and secondary impacts of coastal       
  growth and development; special area management planning; impacts of coastal      
  growth and development; special area management planning; ocean resource          
  planning; and citing of coastal energy and Government facilities. and program     
  development grants as authorized by section. Section 310 can be used to provide   
  grants for technical assistance and to address coastal issues such as Coastal     
  Nonpoint Source Pollution Program Implementation and Coral Reef                   
  conservation activities. CELP can be used to provide grants for protecting        
  important coastal and estuarine areas that have significant conservation,         
  recreation, ecological, historical, or aesthetic values, or that are threatened by
  conversion from their natural or recreational state to other uses (16 USC 33      
  Section 1456d).                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Any coastal State, including those that border the Great Lakes, and including     
  Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the                   
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Freely Associated           
  States of the Pacific whose Coastal Zone Management program has been              
  approved by the Secretary of Commerce. The Governor shall designate the State     
  agency or entity that is to be the applicant.                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Any coastal State, including Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam,          
  American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and the         
  Freely Associated States of the Pacific whose Coastal Zone Management             
  program has been approved by the Secretary of Commerce.                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Letter from Governor designating the applicant. Proposal with statement of work   
  and budget estimate. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular     
  No. A-87 for State and local governments.                                         
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  The standard application forms, as furnished by NOAA and required by 15 CFR       
  Part 24, must be used when applying for Federal funding. These forms can be       
  obtained from the NOAA Grants Management Division. Informal preapplication        
  conferences are recommended. Consultation and assistance is available from        
  NOAA in the preparation of an application. This program is eligible for           
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."        
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point 
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State      
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the 
  program for review.                                                               
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.gov. The Application for Federal           
  Assistance (Non-construction Programs) SF-424 is to be submitted in original      
  and two copies. This program is subject to provisions of 15 CFR Part 24 for       
  State and local governments. CELP and Coral Reef conservation awards are          
  competitively selected through a peer review process.                             
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Applications are approved by the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource             
  Management.                                                                       
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Applications should be submitted 180 days prior to the beginning date of the      
  grant.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  From 90 to 150 days.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                            
  No formal procedure. If application is unacceptable the applicant is fully        
  informed and applicant may revise application.                                    
Renewals:                                                                           
  Continuation grants on an annual basis are available. Individual grants may be    
  extended, however, all funds must be obligated within the fiscal year following   
  the fiscal year of the original award.                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  A percentage of the total project cost which varies by fiscal year, must be       
  provided by the applicant. Federal funds from other sources cannot be used to     
  match. Awards must be not less than one percent of the amount appropriated

  each fiscal year. Eighty to ninety percent of awards are allocated by formula.

  The statistical factors used for fund allocation are: (1) Population in counties



                                                                               11-08
  within the state's legally defined coastal zone, and the source is the 2000
  Decennial Census; and (2) miles of coastal shoreline and the source is "The
  Coastline of the United States," NOAA. The remaining funds are allotted by
  cooperative criteria established annually.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are normally made for 18 months. Funds are released as required.
Reports:
  Financial status reports and performance reports are required semi-annually.
  Final financial status reports are required within 90 days of the award ending
  date.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, recipients that
  are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit Organizations (to include Hospitals),
  and Institutions of Higher Learning shall be subject to the audit requirements
  contained in the Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507).
  Commercial organizations shall be subject to the audit requirements as
  stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of grantees or sub-grantees are required to be
  maintained by the terms of the agreement. The grantee must retain records for
  three years from the date when the final expenditure report is submitted.
Account Identification:
  13x1450; 1306/071450; 1306/081460.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $73,546,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $300,000 to $2,000,000; $1,300,000 average per financial assistance award.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Thirty-four coastal States and U.S. island territories, covering 99 percent of U.S.
  coastline, participate in this voluntary partnership. The nature and structure of
  CZM programs vary widely from State to State. Some States have passed
  comprehensive coastal management legislation while others have used existing
  land use legislation.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  15 CFR Part 923. Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular
  A-122 for nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for
  institutions of higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial
  organizations. Financial assistance management will be in accordance with 15
  CFR Part 14 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit
  and commercial organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for state and local
  governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Coastal Programs Division, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource
  Management, National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration, Department of Commerce, 1305 East-West Highway, 11th
  Floor, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-3155. Use the same
  number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://coastalmanagement.noaa.gov/czm/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.417, Sea Grant Support; 11.420, Coastal Zone Management Estuarine
  Research Reserves.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Coastal management programs have been actively involved in protecting wildlife
  and fisheries habitats, and regulating land use impacts on water quality. In
  addition, coastal programs have taken the leadership of nationwide beach clean-
  ups; marshes are protected in South Carolina and development along the State's
  2,876 mile shoreline is now subject to pollution and storm water guidelines;
  CZM studies led to State bonds to rebuild coastal fishing piers and facilities; in
  California, the permit for a marina was conditioned to provide at least 80 percent
  of berthing for commercial fishing vessels, thus assuring them a permanent base.
  Coastal land valued acquired for public access in the ten States and territories
  cited; land obtained for recreation in California, Massachusetts, and Guam;
  access ways to the water have been designated in Rhode Island and California.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  While 80 to 90 percent of the appropriated funds are allocated to States through
  a formula based on coastal population and shoreline mileage, the tasks in the
  State application are reviewed for relevance to program objectives and cost
  effectiveness. The remainder of the funds are allocated according to criteria
  published by the Coastal Program Division. CELP and Coral Reef funds are
  distributed through a competitive process, subject to availability of funds for
  competitive awards.
                                                                                   201
