11.420 COASTAL ZONE MANAGEMENT ESTUARINE                                             
                                                                                     
RESEARCH RESERVES                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                   
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972, Section 312, Public Law 92-583, 16            
  U.S.C. 1451 Seq.; Coastal Zone Management Act Amendments of 1987, Section          
  315 (1), Public Law 94-370; Coastal Zone Management Act Amendments of              
  1980, Public Law 96-464; Coastal Zone Management Act Amendments of 1984,           
  Public Law 98-960; Coastal Zone Act Reauthorization Amendments of 1990,            
  Public Law 101-508.                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assist States in the development, acquisition, monitoring, research, education, 
  operation and facilities construction for National Estuarine Research Reserves     
  for the purpose of creating natural field laboratories to gather data and make     
  studies of, and educate people about the natural and human processes occurring     
  within the estuaries of the coastal zone.                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Grants may be used to cover the costs of land acquisition, development,            
  research, education, operation and facilities construction for National Estuarine  
  Research Reserves. Development and operation costs may include the                 
  administrative expenses necessary for implementing reserve programs. Grants        
  are available to states for education projects at reserves. Competitive research   
  grants are also available.                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Land acquisition, development, operation, and facilities construction grants are   
  available to any coastal State and, in some cases, public or private person,       
  including those bordering the Great Lakes. For the purposes of the Coastal Zone    
  Management Act, the coastal State also applies to Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin     
  Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth of the Northern                
  Mariana Islands. The Governor shall designate the State agency or entity to be     
  the applicant. Competitive research grants are available to any coastal State or   
  qualified public or private person. Education grants are available to any coastal  
  State entity.                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Any coastal State including those bordering the Great Lakes, as well as Puerto     
  Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the Commonwealth          
  of the Northern Mariana Islands are eligible for reserve operation, land           
  acquisition, or construction awards where a reserve has been designated and for    
  development awards for designating new reserves. Also qualified students are       
  eligible to apply for research fellowship grants.                                  
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  (1) For development grants: A letter from the Governor designating the lead        
  agency for new reserve development; (2) for competitive research grant             
  proposals which do not come from the lead agency: A letter from the reserve        
  manager indicating formal support of the application by the lead agency; (3) for   
  reserve operations, land acquisition, and construction: An application from the    
  reserve lead agency or its designee. For all grants, a statement of work and       
  budget estimate must be submitted. Costs will be determined in accordance with     
  OMB Circular No. A-87 for state and local governments.                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The standard application forms, as furnished by NOAA and required by 15 CFR        
  Part 24, must be used when applying for Federal funding. These forms can be        
  obtained from the NOAA Grants Management Division. Informal preapplication         
  conferences are recommended. Consultation and assistance is available from         
                                                                                     
  NOAA in the preparation of an application. This program is eligible for

                                                                                     
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." If

                                                                                     
  a State or local government is the provider of matching funds, an applicant

                                                                                     
  should consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in

                                                                                     
  his or her State for more information on the process the State requires to be

                                                                                     
  followed in applying for assistance if the State has selected the program for

                                                                                     
  review.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.gov. For development (construction)

                                                                                     
  awards, the Application for Federal Assistance (For Construction Programs) SF-

                                                                                     
  424, as furnished by NOAA is to be submitted in original plus two copies. For

                                                                                     
  operation and management, education and research, acquisition and non-

                                                                                     
  construction development awards, the application for Federal assistance (For

                                                                                     
  Non-Construction Programs) SF-424 is to be used. This program is subject to

                                                                                     
  the provisions of 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:

  Applications are approved by the Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource

  Management and Grants Management Division.                                         
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Preapplications and applications should be submitted 150 and 120 days

  respectively prior to grant beginning date.                                        


202                                                                            11-08

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 150 workdays.
Appeals:
  No formal procedure. If application is unacceptable the applicant is fully
  informed and may revise application.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Range from 0 to 50 percent of the total project cost provided by the applicant
  depending upon the type of project. The Federal share for each reserve shall not
  exceed $5,000,000 for acquisition of lands, waters or interests therein, unless
  using Congressionally-directed funds.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, 18 months. Land acquisition and construction may be longer. Funds
  are released as required.
Reports:
  All financial status reports and performance reports are required semi-annually.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133, recipients that
  are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit Organizations, and Institutions of
  Higher Learning shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in the
  Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial
  organizations shall be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the
  award document.
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of grantees or sub grantees are required to be
  maintained by the terms of the agreement. The grantee must retain records for
  three years from the date when the Final expenditure report is submitted.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306; 13-1460-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $23,178,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $20,000 to $6,000,000. Average: $300,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  By the end of fiscal year 2005, there were 26 designated estuarine research
  reserves.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  15 CFR Part 921 National Estuarine Research Reserve System Program
  Regulations. Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular
  A-122 for nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for
  institutions of higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial
  organizations. Financial assistance management will be in accordance with 15
  CFR Part 14 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit
  and commercial organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local
  governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Estuarine Reserves Division, Office of Ocean and Coastal Resource
  Management, National Ocean Service, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration, Department of Commerce, 1305 East-West Highway, N/ORM5,
  10th Floor Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-3155.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nerrs.noaa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.417, Sea Grant Support; 11.419, Coastal Zone Management Administration
  Awards; 11.429, Marine Sanctuary Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Generic projects/activities funded under the National Estuarine Research
  Reserve program consist of: acquisition of lands to be included in the reserve;
  site selection procedures and management plan development; construction
  projects; operation of the reserve; and resource stewardship, research, and
  educational activities.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  There are five types of awards to coastal States under the National Estuarine
  Research Reserve Program: (1) land acquisition; (2) development; (3) operation,
  education, monitoring; (4) research; and (5) facilities construction. Detailed
  criteria for the State's development of these awards and criteria for reviewing
  each award are provided in the regulations for the National Estuarine Research
  Reserves Program (15 CFR Part 921). Final regulations were published in the
  Federal Register, July 15, 1993.
11.426 FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE FOR NATIONAL
CENTERS FOR COASTAL OCEAN SCIENCE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
