  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (NOAA),                              
  NATIONAL OCEAN SERVICE (NOS), DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Marine Protection, Research, and Sanctuaries Act of 1972, Title II, Section 201      
  and 202, Public Law 92-532; National Ocean Pollution Planning Act of 1978,           
  Section 6, Public Law 95-273; Executive Order 13158.                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To determine the long-term consequences of human activities which affect the         
  coastal and marine environment; to assess the consequences of these activities in    
  terms of ecological, economic, and social impacts upon human, physical and           
  biotic environments, and to define and evaluate management alternatives which        
  minimize adverse consequences of human use of the coastal and marine                 
  environments and resources. Executive Order 13158 directs Federal agencies to        
  work collaboratively with public and private interests to develop a science-         
  based framework for the national system of marine protected areas (MPAs). To         
  insure compliance with this order, NCCOS is intending to conduct an integrated       
  assessment (IA) examining the impacts of various marine resources uses on            
  sustainable fisheries, biodiversity, and submerged cultural artifacts and looking    
  at how a network of MPAs can be used to manage those impacts. The                    
  assessment is intended to provide scientific information that can be used to         
  evaluate the existing system, evaluate options for future potential action, and      
  identify gaps in our understanding of this issue. The IA will give stakeholders in   
  the area a process for evaluating alternative methods of implementing E.O.           
  13158 and a product that 1) identifies objectives and priorities for marine          
  protection and habitat enhancement, 2) outlines agreed-upon actions and              
  implementation plans to achieve marine protection and habitat enhancement            
  benefits, 3) serves as a tool for subsequent IAs, and 4) maintains or improves       
  ecosystem health and the health of high priority, at-risk species. This              
  assessment will be conducted in collaboration with NOAA's MPA Center,                
  National Marine Sanctuaries (NMS), Non-Governmental Offices (NGO) and                
  academic partners. Integrated assessments serve as a formal bridge between           
  science and management to integrate the best existing scientific information for     
  use by coastal managers. Integrated assessments 1) document status and trends        
  of ecosystem and cultural resource conditions, 2) relate those trends to their       
  environmental and economic causes and consequences, 3) predict outcomes of           
  alternative management actions, and 4) review means to implement those               
  alternatives. A successful IA is responsive to policy-relevant questions, based      
  on peer review and public participation, broadly integrated and synthetic, based     
  on high-quality existing information, and predictive.                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Universities, colleges, junior colleges, technical schools, institutes, laboratories,
  State and local government agencies, public or private profit or nonprofit entities  
  or individuals.                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Organizations and individuals with demonstrated professional expertise in            
  determining, assessing and portraying the temporal and spatial distribution of       
  chemical contaminants and their impact upon physical, biotic and human               
  environments, particularly coastal ecosystems. With regard to the IA                 
  competitive program element, organizations and individuals with interests in a       
  national system of marine protected areas (MPAs).                                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for          
  institutions of higher education, with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local     
  governments, OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations; and Federal         
  Acquisition Regulation (FAR) Subpart 31.2, Contracts with Commercial                 
  Organizations, codified at 48 CFR 31.2.                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The standard application forms, as furnished by NOAA and required by 15 CFR          
  Part 24, must be used when applying for Federal funding. These forms can be          
  obtained from the NOAA Grants Management Division. Informal                          
  preapplication conferences are recommended. Consultation and assistance is           
  available from NOAA in the preparation of an application. This program is            
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal         
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the      
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the  
                                                                                       
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected

                                                                                       
  the program for review.

                                                                                       
Application Procedure:

                                                                                       
  A standard application form (SF-424) should be submitted with a statement of

                                                                                       
  work and estimated budget to the National Ocean Service, National Centers for

                                                                                       
  Coastal Ocean Science (N/SCI,) 1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD

                                                                                       
  20910. This program is subject to the requirements of CFR Part 14, "Uniform          
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Agreements with Institutions of           
  Higher Education, Hospitals, Other Nonprofit and Commercial Organizations,           
  which replaces OMB Circular No. A-110 as the administrative rules applicable         
  to these awards. In addition, this program is subject to the requirements of 15



                                                                                  11-08
  CFR Part 24, "Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local
  Governments", which replaces OMB A-102 as the administrative rule applicable
  to these awards. Applicable administrative requirements and cost principles are
  identified in each award and are incorporated into the award by reference.
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  funding opportunity number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly
  to the National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science Office. Proposals are subject
  to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made on the basis of proposal evaluation. For the IA competitive
  program element, awards are made on the basis of competitive peer review of
  proposals.
Deadlines:
  No specific deadlines for proposal submission. Proposals will be reviewed
  several times a year. For the IA competitive program element, proposals must be
  submitted in accordance with instructions published in the Federal Register
  notice. The deadline date will be at least thirty days after the date of publication
  in the Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 210 days from the time of proposal receipt.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  By application to the National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science, 1305 East-
  West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Attn: Gary Matlock.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Support for projects may be provided for periods up to 5 years in annual
  increments. Funds are released as required.
Reports:
  Semi-annual and final performance reports; quarterly and final financial reports,
  and other special reports as may be required on a case-by-case basis.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, recipients that
  are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit Organizations, and Institutions of
  Higher Learning shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in the
  Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial
  organizations shall be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the
  award document.
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of grantees or sub grantees are required to be
  maintained by the terms of the agreement (OMB Circular No. A110 for
  institutions of higher education and other nonprofit organizations and with 15
  CFR Part 24 for State and local governments). The grantee must retain records
  for three years from the date when the final expenditure report is submitted.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $1,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $20,000 to $550,000. Average: $250,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Accomplishments vary from year to year based on the specific mix of
  cooperative agreements actually funded. Programs under this CFDA conduct
  ecosystem and targeted research studies on Great Lakes and marine ecosystems
  to understand, describe, monitor, assess, model and predict the response of these
  systems to natural and human induced changes.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for
  nonprofit and for- profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial
  organizations, and with 15 CRF Part 24 for state and local governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  National Ocean Service, National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science (N/SCI),
  1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. attn: Gary Matlock.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nccos.noaa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.417, Sea Grant Support.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Assessments of estuarine and marine contaminants, harmful algal blooms,
  habitats, and natural resources, as they pertain to coastal ecosystems health and
                                                                                     203
