OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To identify areas of the marine environment of special national significance due    
  to their resource or human-use values; to provide authority for comprehensive       
  and coordinated conservation and management of these marine areas that will         
  complement existing regulatory authorities; to support, promote, and coordinate     
  scientific research on, and monitoring of, the resources of these marine areas; to  
  enhance public awareness, understanding, appreciation, and wise use of the          
  marine environment; and to facilitate, to the extent compatible with the primary    
  objective of resource protection, all public and private uses of the resources of   
  these marine areas not prohibited pursuant to other authorities; and to support     
  organizations that provide environment-based education to students, teachers        
  and communities.                                                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Cooperative agreements are entered into for the purpose of conducting research      
  and educational programs; for the solicitation of private donations for the         
  support of such activities in the Marine sanctuary system; to conduct               
  enforcement activities at Marine sanctuary sites; and for other activities to carry 
  out the purposes of the National Marine Sanctuaries Act. Scholarships are           
  provided for masters and doctorate level studies particularly by women and          
  minorities who are pursuing degrees in Marine Biology, Maritime Archaeology         
  and Oceanography.                                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  States, local governments, regional agencies, interstate agencies, k-through-12     
  public and independent schools and school systems, institutions of higher           
  education, commerical and nonprofit organizations, Indian tribal Governments,       
  or other persons. Agreements to solicit private donations may only be made          
  with nonprofit organizations. Scholarships are awarded to individuals who are       
  U.S. citizens and have been admitted to a masters or doctorate program for          
  studies in Marine Biology, Maritime Archaeology, and Oceanography.                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Financial assistance is made for a public purpose. The ultimate beneficiary is the  
  public. The scholarship program benefits individuals who do not have the            
  financial means of pursuing graduate level studies and, in turn, ensures that       
  women and minorities are representative in the areas supported by the               
  scholarship program.                                                                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Proposal with statement of work and budget estimate. Costs will be determined       
  in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-87 for State and local governments,          
  A-21 for educational institutions and A-122 for nonprofit organizations.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms, as furnished by NOAA and required by 15 CFR         
  Part 24, must be used when applying for Federal funding. These forms can be         
  obtained from the NOAA Grants Management Division. Informal preapplication          
  conferences are recommended. Consultation and assistance is available from          
  NOAA in the preparation of an application. This program is excluded from            
  coverage under E.O. 12372. For the scholarships to individuals, there is no         
  preapplication requirement.                                                         
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the       
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application             
  package and instructions. For cooperative agreements and competitive awards,        
  the application package will be submitted directly to the National Marine           
  Sanctuary Program. For scholarships, the application package will be submitted      
  directly to the NOS Office of the assistant Administrator. This program is          
  subject to the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110, for institutions of higher     
  education and other nonprofit organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State      
  and local governments. Monterey Bay Watershed Education and Training                
  Program Awards are competitively selected. The application process is               
  described in the annual Federal Register Notice. For the scholarship program,       
  the application process is described in the annual Federal Register Notice.         
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The cooperative agreement and competitive grants awards are approved by the         
  National Marine Sanctuary Program. Scholarship awards are approved by NOS           
  Associate Assistant Administrator for Management.                                   
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Proposals should be submitted 120 days prior to the beginning date of the           
  cooperative agreement. Competitive grant deadlines and scholarship deadlines        
  are published in the annual Federal Register Notice.                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 90 to 120 days.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                              
  No formal procedure.                                                                
Renewals:                                                                             
  The National Marine Sanctuary Program may renew funding for existing grants         
  that were funded in the previous application process. New grants may be             
  awarded pending successful review of a new application package, and adequate        
  progress reports and/or site visits.                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    


                                                                                 11-08
  This program has no statutory formula. This program has no matching
  requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are usually made for a 1 year period. Funds are released as required.
Reports:
  Financial Status Reports and Performance Reports are required quarterly or
  semi-annually. For the scholarships, an annual Progress Report is required and a
  final Progress Report is required at the end of the award. For the competitive
  awards, Financial and Performance Reports are semi-annually and a
  comprehensive final Progress Report is required at the end of the award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, recipients that
  are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit Organizations, and Institutions of
  Higher Learning shall be subject to the audit requirements contained in the
  Single Audit Act Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial
  organizations shall be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the
  award document.
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of grantees or sub grantees are required to be
  maintained by the terms of the agreement. The grantee must retain records for
  three years from the date when the Final expenditure report is submitted.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $10,021,934; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported. (Scholarships) FY 07 $350,000; FY 08 est not available; and
  FY 09 est not reported. (Competitive awards) FY 07 $1,700,000; FY 08 est not
  available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Cooperative Agreements: FY 2006 - $200,000 to approximately $3,940,000.
  Average: $1,695,000. Scholarships: $32,000. Competitive award: $10,000 -
  $50,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  There are currently 13 designated marine sanctuaries, and a 14th sanctuary site
  is in the designation process. Management Plan Reviews are underway at seven
  sites. In fiscal year 2004, the National Marine Sanctuary Program (NMSP)
  launched the Sanctuary integrated Monitoring Network (SIMoN) that enables
  researchers to monitor the sanctuary effectively by integrating existing
  monitoring programs and identifying gaps in information; ground was broken on
  a new Maritime Heritage Center at Thunder Bay; working in conjunction with
  the NMS Foundation, a suite of outreach activities have been conducted to
  achieve the goals of increasing visibility and/or educational efforts related to the
  NMSP. National Science Teachers Association (NSTA) has completed and will
  present three Science Guides (formal education professional development tools)
  on corals, estuaries, and the effects of the ocean on weather and climate as well
  as a symposium for 80 middles and high school level educators on coral
  ecosystems in cooperation with NOAA in FY 06 The Monterey Bay Watershed
  Education and Training Program funded 10 grants and 2 cooperative agreements
  in FY 05 and a estimated 35 grants and 4 cooperative agreements in FY 06; and
  emergency response tools and capabilities were expanded across the program.
  Fourteen students were awarded scholarships in FY 04. Nine were continuing
  and 5 new awards were made.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  15 CFR Part 922. Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB
  Circular A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular
  A-122 for nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for
  institutions of higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial
  organizations. Financial assistance management will be in accordance with 15
  CFR Part 14 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit
  and commercial organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for state and local
  governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  Regional or Local Office. Local Offices at each sanctuary.
Headquarters Office:
  Headquarters Office Director, National Marine Sanctuary Program/NOS, 1305
  East West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Maureen Warren (301) 713-3125
  x251 and Matthew Stout (301) 713-3125 x273. Monterey Bay Watershed
  Education and Training Program: Seaberry Nachbar (831) 647-4204. For
  Scholarships: Chantell Haskins (301)713-9437 x125, NOAA Education Office,
  OAR HQTR Route: R, Bldg SSMC3-Room 10742, 1315 East West Highway,
  Silver Spring, MD 20910-3282, E-mail: Chantell.Haskins@noaa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.sanctuaries.nos.noaa.gov/ http://www.sanctuaries.nos.noaa.gov/bwet
  For Scholarships: http://www.fosterscholars.noaa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.417, Sea Grant Support; 11.419, Coastal Zone Management Administration
  Awards; 11.420, Coastal Zone Management Estuarine Research Reserves;
  11.457, Chesapeake Bay Studies; 11.473, Coastal Services Center.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
                                                                                     205
