  Long-term management efforts at Fagatele Bay National Marine Sanctuary;                
  Educational programming and interpretation to create greater public awareness          
  of the significance of marine sanctuaries; building the infrastructure to bring live   
  video from a sanctuary site to the American public; Jason Foundation to support        
  an innovative science and technology education program for middle-school               
  students and teachers; Co-sponsor National Geographic Society's Oceans for             
  Life/Field Studies Project for teacher-student pairs at the Florida Keys and           
  Channel Islands National Marine Sanctuaries. The second annual Alligator               
  Symposium was held in Norfolk, VA on October 30-31, 2004. The Monterey                 
  Bay Watershed Education and Training Program awarded a grant to allow                  
  students to investigate the factors that influence the health of invertebrates by      
  assessing the sand crab population and by measuring the environmental factors          
  that impact the sand crab population at a local beach. Scholarships were               
  awarded to graduate students studying Marine Biology, Oceanography, and                
  Maritime Archeology.                                                                   
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                        
  A set of ranking criteria was developed to establish the priority of proposed          
  efforts funded through the National Marine Sanctuary Program. The criteria             
  include: (1) importance of the information or transaction for sanctuary                
  management decisions; (2) date of the available information or accomplishment          
  for which funds are expended; (3) status of information or accomplishment; and         
  4) generic applicability of information or techniques receivable from effort.          
  Criteria for scholarships include financial need, academic record,                     
  recommendations, organizational, analytical, and written communications skills         
                                                                                         
  based on the statement of intent, and research and career goals and objectives as

                                                                                         
  described in the statement of intent. Criteria for Monterey Bay Watershed

                                                                                         
  Education and Training Program competitive awards include: (1) Importance

                                                                                         
  and/or relevance and applicability of proposal to the program goals; (2)

                                                                                         
  Technical Merit; (3) Overall qualifications for applicants; (4) Project costs, and

                                                                                         
  (5) Financial need of student.

                                                                                         
                                                                                         
11.430 UNDERSEA RESEARCH                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                          
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                           
  Coast and Geodetic Survey Act, Public Law 80-373; Outer Continental Shelf,             
  Section 21(e), 1978.                                                                   
                                                                                         
OBJECTIVES:

  To place man safely undersea to conduct research in support of National                
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) and national science                     
                                                                                         
  requirements.

                                                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                         
  Project Grants.

                                                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  Grants may be used for research and development and to purchase and/or lease           
  technology in support of program goals.                                                
                                                                                         
Applicant Eligibility:

  Universities, colleges, junior colleges, technical schools, institutes, laboratories;  
  any State, political subdivision of a State, or agency or office thereof; any          
  individual.                                                                            
                                                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  Organizations and individuals with professional interests in marine science            
  engineering.                                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:

  Proposals with statement of work and estimated budget. Cost will be determined         
  in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-87 for State and local governments,

                                                                                         
  A-21 for educational institutions and A-122 for nonprofit organization.

                                                                                         
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB Circular

                                                                                         
  No. A-102.

                                                                                         
Application Procedure:

                                                                                         
  Formal proposal to the headquarters office that documents fully the grant

                                                                                         
  requirements and requested support with application for Federal Assistance (SF

                                                                                         
  424). This program is subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Part 24, Grants and

                                                                                         
  Cooperative Agreements with State and Local Governments and OMB Circular

                                                                                         
  No. A-110, as applicable.

                                                                                         
Award Procedure:

                                                                                         
  Awards are made on the basis of proposal evaluation.

                                                                                         
Deadlines:

                                                                                         
  None.

                                                                                         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Approximately 90 to 150 days from time of proposal submission.                         
Appeals:                                                                                 
  None.                                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                                
  By negotiation with the office of Undersea Research.                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                       
  None.                                                                                  
                                                                                         


206                                                                                11-08

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  None.
Reports:
  Financial status reports and performance reports are required quarterly. Final
  reports are required at the end of the grant period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees are required to maintain complete records for each grant to ensure
  funds are used pursuant to the statement of work.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $8,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $15,000 to $2,225,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Symposia Series for Undersea Research; National Solicitation of Research
  Proposals; Annual Report. Allowable cost will be determined in accordance
  with OMB Circular A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes;
  OMB Circular A-122 for nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular
  A-21 for institutions of higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial
  organizations. Financial assistance management will be in accordance with 15
  CFR Part 14 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit
  and commercial organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local
  governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Office of Undersea Research, National Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Administration, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910.
  Telephone: (301) 713-2427.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nurp.noaa.gov/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.405, Anadromous Fish Conservation Act Program; 11.407, Interjurisdictional
  Fisheries Act of 1986; 11.417, Sea Grant Support; 11.419, Coastal Zone
  Management Administration Awards; 47.050, Geosciences.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Nutrient Cycling and Primary Productivity of Marine Ecosystems; Recruitment
  Processes of Fish and Invertebrates; Diving safety and physiology research;
  submarine venting of liquids and gases.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are evaluated on the degree to which they contribute to the goals and
  objectives of NOAA along with their relevance to national science requirements
  for the marine environment, and the extent of expected benefits, scientific
  quality, cost effectiveness, and other factors.
11.431 CLIMATE AND ATMOSPHERIC RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Federal Aviation Act, as amended, 49 U.S.C. 4720; 33 U.S.C. 883d; Weather
  Service Organic Act, 15 U.S.C. 2904; National Climate Program Act, as
  amended, 15 U.S.C. 2931-2934.
OBJECTIVES:
  To develop the knowledge required to establish a predictive capability for short
  and long-term climate fluctuations and trends.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grants may be used for research and development, advisory services, and
  operational systems as they relate to specific programs. Specific restrictions,
  other than those mandated for grants, are evaluated on an individual grant or
  program basis.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Institutions of higher education, other nonprofits, commercial organizations,
  international organizations, state, local and Indian tribal governments.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Organizations and individuals with interests in meteorology, oceanography, and
  climate research and prediction.
