Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Proposals with statement of work, estimated budget, and curriculum vitae. Costs

                                                                                     
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-87 for State and

  local governments, A-21 for educational institutions, and A-122 for nonprofit      
  organizations.                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB Circular           
  No. A-102.                                                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Submit an electronic application to Grants.gov APPLY for financial assistance      
  (SF 424) with statement of work to be performed and proposed amount. This          
  program is subject to the requirements of OMB Circular No. A-110 and 15 CFR        
  Part 24, "Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local                   
  Governments," as applicable.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Awards are made on the basis of peer review of proposals.                          
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 100 to 200 days from time of proposal receipt.                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  By negotiation with Climate Program Office.                                        
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Cost Sharing is only required in one program element competition which is the

                                                                                     
  NOAA Climate Transition Program (NCTP) where the Cost Share Percentage

                                                                                     
  must be at least 5 percent of the total costs. The other competitions have no cost

                                                                                     
  sharing requirement.

                                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                     
  Grant award period ranges one to five years with annual funding for one year.

                                                                                     
Reports:

  Annual performance and financial reports are required. Final reports are due 90    
  days after expiration of award.                                                    
                                                                                     
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003); Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations;       
                                                                                     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in

                                                                                     
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that

                                                                                     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted

                                                                                     
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  Grantees expected to maintain complete records for each grant to insure funds

                                                                                     
  are used for purpose for which grant was made.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

                                                                                     
  13-1450-0-1-306.

                                                                                     
Obligations:

  FY 07 $45,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $50,000 to $200,000. Average: $85,000.                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  In fiscal year 2005, approximately 65 new grants were awarded.                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for         
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for              
  nonprofit and for- profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of     
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial       
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for                
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial   
  organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.            
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Director, Climate Program Office, National Oceanic and Atmospheric                 
  Administration, 1100 Wayne Avenue, Suite 1200, Silver Spring, MD 20910.            
  Telephone: (301) 427-2089.                                                         
                                                                                     
Web Site Address:

  http://www.climate.noaa.gov.                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  (1) Numerical Weather Prediction using Global Weather Experiment data; (2)         
  Prediction of Planetary Circulation; (3) Implementation of Sea Level Network in    
  Indian Ocean; (4) Dynamical Forecast of El Nino/Southern Oscillation; and (5)      
  Circulation of the S.W. Tropical Pacific Ocean.                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Proposals are subject to office and peer review process taking into consideration  
  primarily scientific merit and application to office research goals. Principal     
  investigators' qualifications and cost are also considered, with cost subject to   
  negotiation.                                                                       


                                                                               11-08 
11.432 OFFICE OF OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
RESEARCH (OAR) JOINT AND COOPERATIVE
INSTITUTES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  15 U.S.C. 313; 15 U.S.C. 2904; 15 U.S.C. 1540; 15 U.S.C. 2901 et seq.; 16
  U.S.C. 753a; 33 U.S.C. 883d; 49 U.S.C. 44720(b); and 118 Stat. 71
  (2004)(noted in 15 U.S.C. 1540).
OBJECTIVES:
  To increase the effectiveness of research and the quality of education in the
  environmental sciences by facilitating cooperation between government,
  university, and nonprofit research institutions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Program authorizes funds to be used for research and development, education
  and training, advisory services and operational systems as they relate to specific
  NOAA programs. Specific restrictions, other than those mandated for
  cooperative agreements, are evaluated on an individual program basis. Most
  Joint and Cooperative Institutes (CIs) operate under a Memorandum of
  Understanding/Memorandum of Agreement and are geographically located near
  a NOAA Research laboratory or a NOAA facility. In addition, 118 Stat. 71
  (2004), authorizes the Secretary to designate (delegated to the Under Secretary
  of NOAA) joint and cooperative institutes and use the personnel, services, or
  facilities of such organizations for research, education, training, and outreach to
  further NOAA's mission under a cooperative agreement. It essentially authorizes
  "personal services" contract authority and the authority to procure services,
  equipment, and facilities under a financial assistance agreement as opposed to
  executing a procurement contract.
Applicant Eligibility:
  University or nonprofit research institution usually located near a NOAA
  Research Laboratory or other NOAA facility.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Organizations and individuals with interests in oceanographic research,
  atmospheric research, limnology, solar environment research, near-space
  research, and Arctic research.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposals with statements of work and estimated budgets. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for agreements with
  educational institutions, A-87 for State and local governments, and A-122 for
  nonprofit institutions.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency and required by
  OMB Circular Nos. A-21 and A-110 must be used for this program. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372 and OMB Circular No. A-
  102.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals for new cooperative agreements are solicited with an announcement in
  the Federal Register. These announcements include specific information for
  proposal submission. All proposals are subject to the requirements of OMB
  Circular Nos. A-21 and A-110, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Accepted applications are subject to peer review by a review panel assembled by
  the Cooperative Institute Program Manager. All applicants are notified whether
  or not their proposal was funded.
Deadlines:
  Determined by award period (contact Cooperative Institute Program Manager).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 90 to 180 days from time of proposal submission.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  By negotiation with OAR or other NOAA components when applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None. Universities and other nonprofit institutions make contributions as partial
  indirect costs in accordance with the cooperative agreement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Generally, five years with funding approved on individual and group proposal
  basis throughout the five years in accordance with the DOC approvals.
Reports:
  Financial status reports are required quarterly. Program status reports are
  required annually.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003); Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations;
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
                                                                                    207
