  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted 
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:                                                                           
  Recipients are expected to maintain complete records for each cooperative        
  agreement to insure funds are used for the purposes that the cooperative         
  agreement was made. Record must be retained for three years; records shall be    
  retained beyond the three-year period if audit findings have not been resolved.  
Account Identification:                                                            
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and   
  FY 09 est not reported.                                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Total annual funding at current Cooperative Institutes ranges from $74,000 to    
  $20,000,000. Average funding is $8,700,000.                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  Projects were reviewed and funded through thirteen cooperative agreements.       
  Funding of proposals for the current 13 OAR Joint and Cooperative Institutes is  
  expected in fiscal year 2006.                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for       
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for            
  nonprofit and for- profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of   
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial     
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for              
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial 
  organizations, and with 15 CRF Part 24 for State and local governments.          
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  None.                                                                            
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Dr. John Cortinas, Program Manager, NOAA/OAR R/LCLx2, 1315 East West             
  Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-9397 X 206.               
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.oarhq.noaa.gov/OSS_JI.html .                                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  11.405, Anadromous Fish Conservation Act Program; 11.417, Sea Grant              
  Support; 11.420, Coastal Zone Management Estuarine Research Reserves;            
  11.426, Financial Assistance for National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science;     
  11.430, Undersea Research; 11.431, Climate and Atmospheric Research;             
  11.440, Environmental Sciences, Applications, Data, and Education; 11.455,       
  Cooperative Science and Education Program; 11.459, Weather and Air Quality       
  Research; 11.460, Special Oceanic and Atmospheric Projects.                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Evaluation of the Atmospheric, Soil, and Plant Community Parameters that         
  Influence Surface Water Balance and the Relation to Waste Disposal,              
  Understanding Climate Change from the Medieval Warm Period to the                
  Greenhouse Future, The Role of Orography on the North American Monsoon           
  Onset and Interannual Variability, Ocean and Atmospheric Inverse Modeling for    
  Global Carbon Flux Determinations, A Hydrologic Ensemble Seasonal Forecast       
  System over the Eastern U.S., Long-term Trends and Special Variability in        
  Arctic Haze at 4 Sites in Western Alaska, Assessment of Cyanobacterial Blooms    
  and Microcystin Concentrations in the Great Lakes, Air-Sea Flux Estimation in    
  High Wind Boundary Layers, Transport and Exchange of Florida Bay Interior        
  Waters, Tornado Warning Lead Time and Tornado Casualities: A Research            
  Proposal, Investigation of Synoptic and Mesoscale Meteorological Processes       
  Associated with Hazardous Weather, Impact of Interactive Vegetation on           
  Predictions of the North American Monsoon, Modeling Longline Effort              
  Dynamics and Protected Species Interaction, Cooperative Studies of Central       
  Coast Salmon, Tropical Atlantic Circulation Program.                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  Proposals are subject to peer-review evaluations, technical reviews,             
  administrative reviews, and external reviews, if applicable, taking into primary 
  consideration scientific merit and application to the mission goals of NOAA.     
                                                                                   
11.433 MARINE FISHERIES INITIATIVE                                                 
                                                                                   
      (MARFIN)                                                                     
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                 
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                     
  Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, 16 U.S.C. 753a; Magnuson Fishery Conservation     
  and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1854(e); Saltonstall-Kennedy Act, 15 U.S.C.        
  713 c-3(d).                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                        
  To provide financial assistance for research and development projects that will  
  provide information for the full and wise use and enhancement of fishery         
  resources in the Southeast U. S. Gulf of Mexico and the South Atlantic           


208                                                                          11-08

  beginning with the State of North Carolina south to Florida. In addition,
  beginning in Fiscal Year 1998 similar assistance is provided for the coastal New
  England states.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds can be used to develop harvest methods, economic analyses of fisheries,
  processing methods, fish stock assessment and fish stock enhancement. Projects
  are restricted to the fisheries in the Southeast Region including the U.S. Gulf of
  Mexico and the South Atlantic beginning with North Carolina, South Carolina
  to Florida. Funds are not used for loans. Also, projects in the coastal New
  England States will be considered. In the Northeast, project priorities have
  varied during the first two years of funding availability. During Fiscal Year
  1999, the area of emphasis was new methods or techniques to improve the
  ability of scientists to identify the stock structure of selected species of fish and
  shellfish to improve fisheries management.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States or local governments, universities, private enterprise, individuals or any
  other entity, nonprofit or otherwise, if such entity is a citizen of the United States
  within the meaning of Section 2 of the Shipping Act, 1916, as amended, 46
  U.S.C. 802.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federal, State and local governments, universities, private enterprise, nonprofit
  or profit organizations, and the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applications must include resumes of qualifications and experience of the
  principal investigators. They are expected to demonstrate expertise in the
  proposed area of study.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is covered under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of
  Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated
  as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State
  has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals will be reviewed, evaluated and ranked by the National Marine
  Fisheries Service (NMFS). The ranking is divided into two groups; (a)
  recommended; and (b) not recommended. They are then presented to a panel of
  fishery experts and to the MARFIN Panel. The Panel will individually submit
  their funding recommendations to the Regional Administrator of the appropriate
  Region. The Regional Administrator in consultation with the Assistant
  Administrator for Fisheries will determine funding availability and select the
  projects to be funded. The selected proposals will be reviewed and negotiated by
  the appropriate Regional Office and the assigned Technical Monitor. A
  complete application will be forwarded to the NOAA Grants Officer for approval
  and award.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are published in the annual Federal Register or contact either the
  NMFS Southeast Regional Office or the NMFS Northeast Regional Office.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Successful applicants will be selected generally within 180 days. Awards will be
  made normally within 240 days after the date of publication of the Federal
  Register.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Multi-year awards of up to three years may be approved. Once awarded, multi-
  year projects will not compete for funding in subsequent years. Funding for
  multi-year projects beyond the first year is contingent upon the availability of
  program funds in subsequent fiscal years, and the extent to which the recipient
  meets project objectives and reporting requirements.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Cost-sharing is not required under this
  program.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The money must be spent during the award period. Funds are released in
  advance or by reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard Terms and
  Conditions document required for each grant.
Reports:
  Semi-annual progress and financial reports are due six months after the start date
  of the award. Progress reports should summarize all work accomplished during
  the six months following the start date of the award and the financial reports
  should reflect the use of funds. A final report is due 90 days after completion of
  the project.
