Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003); Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations;     
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical         
  reports, and other records of grantees or sub grantees are required to be retained
  for 3 years from the date of the final financial status report for each award.    
Account Identification:                                                             
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $2,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY        
  09 est not reported.                                                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $21,185 to $374,372. Average: $64,282.                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Recent accomplishments include: using high-technology underwater video            
  cameras to fine tune bycatch reduction devices in shrimp trawl nets;              
  development of a horseshoe crab management program in South Carolina as a         
  result of reproductive biology research; and delineation of important nursery     
  habitat for red snapper in the northern Gulf of Mexico. Numerous multi-year       
  projects were funded in the out years that reduced the level of funding for new   
  cooperative agreements in FY 06.                                                  
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  A description of MARFIN activities is available and published in an "Annual       
  Report." A copy may be obtained from the Southeast Regional Office. There is      
  no funding history in the Northeast Region prior to FY 1998. Allowable cost       
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for State and local       
  governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for nonprofit and for-          
  profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of higher education;     
  and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial assistance             
  management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for institutions of          
  higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial organizations,   
  and with 15 CRF Part 24 for state and local governments.                          
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Regional or Local Office: Scot Plank, State/Federal Liaison Office, National      
  Marine Fisheries Service, 263 13th Ave. South, St. Petersburg, FL 33701.          
  Telephone: (727) 824-5324. Use the same number for FTS. Email:                    
  Scot.plank@noaa.gov. Kenneth L. Beal, National Marine Fisheries Service,          
  Northeast Regional Office, One Blackburn Drive, Gloucester, MA 01930.             
  Telephone: (978) 281- 9267. E-mail: Grants.Information@noaa.gov.                  
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Not applicable.                                                                   
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  11.427, Fisheries Development and Utilization Research and Development            
  Grants and Cooperative Agreements Program.                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Relationship between estuarine habitat structure and distribution and abundance   
  of juvenile fishery species; assessment of bathymetric highs as nursery habitat of
  newly settled red snapper in the northwest Gulf of Mexico; genetic analysis of    
  the stock structure of wahoo in the western Atlantic and Gulf of Mexico; turtle   
  excluder device (TED) and bycatch (BRD) reduction device technology transfer      
  to the shrimp industry; and validation of ages for species of the deepwater       
  snapper/grouper complex off the southeast U.S. coast.                             
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Priority in program emphasis will be placed upon funding projects that have the   
  greatest probability of recovering, maintaining, improving, or developing         
  fisheries, improving our understanding of factors affecting recruitment success,  
  generating increased values from fisheries, and generating increased recreational 
  opportunity and harvest potential. Projects will be evaluated as to the likelihood
  of achieving these benefits through both short-term and long-term research        
  projects with consideration of the magnitude of the eventual economic benefit     
  that may be realized.                                                             
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
11.434 COOPERATIVE FISHERY STATISTICS

                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                     
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                  
  NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
  COMMERCE                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                      
  Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, 16 U.S.C. 753 a.                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                         
  To maintain a cooperative State and Federal partnership to provide a continuing   
  source of fisheries dependent statistics to support fishery management in the     
  States' Territorial Sea and the U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone.                     


                                                                               11-08
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are to support cooperative State and Federal programs to collect statistics
  on commercial and recreational fisheries in support of the Magnuson-Stevens
  Fishery Conservation Management Act.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are the Marine Fisheries Conservation agencies of the States
  of Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South
  Carolina, Texas, Puerto Rico, U.S. Virgin Islands and the Gulf States Marine
  Fisheries Commission.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  This program benefits Federal, State and interstate marine resource conservation
  and management agencies; U.S. and foreign commercial and recreational fishing
  industries; conservation organizations; academic institutions; international and
  Indian Tribal treaties; private and public research groups; consumers; and the
  general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants are required to satisfy all DOC/NOAA standards and regulations,
  including routine and special terms and conditions for financial assistance
  programs application and conduct. Applicants may be required to show proof
  that they are mandated by their own State to monitor fishery resources and to
  manage or participate in the management of these resources.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency. This program is
  covered under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for information on the process the State requires to
  be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for
  review.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are initially evaluated by the pertinent NMFS Office/Region/Science
  Center, and are subject to review for technical merit, soundness of design,
  competency of the applicant to perform the proposed work, potential
  contribution of the project to national or regional goals, and appropriateness and
  reasonableness of proposed costs. Projects approved for funding will be
  submitted to the NOAA Grants Management Division and the Department of
  Commerce's Office of Federal Assistance for review and approval.
Deadlines:
  Gulf of Mexico Fisheries Information Network (GulfFIN) grants should be
  submitted to: National Marine Fisheries Service, Office of Science and
  Technology, 1315 East-West Highway, SSMC3, Room 12441, Silver Spring,
  MD 20910.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval time is expected to range from 90 to 120 days, which includes
  processing of the award through the NMFS, NOAA, and DOC financial
  assistance procedures.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Multiple year awards of up to five years may be approved. Funding for multi-
  year projects beyond the first year is contingent upon the availability of program
  funds in subsequent fiscal years, and the extent to which the recipient meets
  project objectives and reporting requirements.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Projects are funded at up to 100 percent
  of the Federal share. Grantee matching contributions are not required, but are
  encouraged.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are normally for a 12 month period but in some instances, award periods
  may extend beyond 12 months, or may be completed in less than 12 months.
  Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and are to be
  expended in accordance with DOC/NOAA finance and reporting procedures.
  Funds are released in advance or by reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard
  Terms and Conditions document required for each grant.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the
  Financial Assistance Award. Progress reports summarize work accomplished
  and explain situations where expected work has not been completed. Financial
  reports indicate use of funds during the financial reporting period designated.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
                                                                                    209
