  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical          
  reports, and other records of grantees or subgrantees are required to be retained  
  for 3 years from the date of the final financial status report for each award.     
Account Identification:                                                              
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $5,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY         
  09 est not reported.                                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $59,417 to $124,167; $79,735. (One award to GulfFIN for $3,304,789, is not         
  included.)                                                                         
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  GulfFIN: Collecting, managing, and disseminating marine recreational fisheries     
  data; head boat port sampling in Texas, Louisiana, and Florida; menhaden data      
  collection; development and implementation of a FIN data management system;        
  trip ticket program development, implementation, and operation; and biological     
  sampling of commercial and recreational catches.                                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Application guidelines are provided by the NMFS Regional Office, address           
  listed below. Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB             
  Circular A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular      
  A-122 for nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for            
  institutions of higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial                
  organizations. Financial assistance management will be in accordance with 15       
  CFR Part 14 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit  
  and commercial organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for state and local          
  governments.                                                                       
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Southeast: Cynthia Binkley, Federal Program Officer, State/Federal Liaison         
  Office, 263 13th Ave. South, St. Petersburg, FL 33701. Telephone: (727) 824-       
  5324. Fax (727) 824-5364.                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  For GulfFIN - Patty Zielinski, Fisheries Statistics and Economics Division,        
  Office of Science and Technology, National Marine Fisheries Service, Office of     
  Science and Technology, 1315 East West Highway, SSMC3, Room 12441,                 
  Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301)713-2328. Fax: (301)713-4137. E-          
  mail: Patty.zielinski@noaa.gov.                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://caldera.sero.nmfs.gov/grants/programs/csp.htm;                              
  http://www.st.nmfs.gov/st1/ .                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  11.407, Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986; 11.435, Southeast Area          
  Monitoring and Assessment Program; 11.474, Atlantic Coastal Fisheries              
  Cooperative Management Act.                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  All projects are NMFS/State (U.S. territory/commonwealth) cooperative              
  fisheries statistics, agreements, for the collection, analysis and distribution of 
  statistical information and for research into better methods for those tasks.      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Proposals are selected based on the results of Cooperative Statistics and          
  Fisheries Information Network (FIN) committee activities and on negotiations       
  between NMFS and cooperators. The nature and scope of cooperative activities       
  are based on the needs of the cooperating agencies. Funding is allocated by        
  NMFS based on Cooperative Statistics and Fisheries Information Network (FIN)       
  committee recommendations and on the level of activities that are planned for      
  accomplishment. Regardless of source, proposals must under go rigorous             
  technical review and comply with all OMB, DOC, and NOAA grants policies            
  and procedures.                                                                    
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
11.435 SOUTHEAST AREA MONITORING AND

                                                                                     
ASSESSMENT PROGRAM                                                                   
      (SEAMAP)                                                                       
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                   
  NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  COMMERCE                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, 16 U.S.C. 753 a.                                    
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To maintain a cooperative program which engages State and Federal agencies in      
  the coordinated collection, management, and dissemination of fishery -             
  independent information on marine fisheries in support of State Territorial Sea    
  and U.S. Exclusive Economic Zone fisheries management programs.                    


210                                                                            11-08

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funding through cooperative agreements involve regional member organizations
  in fishery - independent sampling projects. Projects are restricted to fisheries of
  the Gulf of Mexico, South Atlantic and U.S. Caribbean. Cooperators are State
  and territorial governments, Interstate Marine Fishery Commissions.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are the Marine Fishery Conservation agencies of the States of
  Alabama, Florida, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, North Carolina, South
  Carolina, Texas, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, the Atlantic and Gulf
  States Marine Fishery Commissions.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  This program benefits Federal, State and interstate marine resource conservation
  and management agencies; U.S. and foreign commercial and recreational fishing
  industries; conservation organizations; academic institutions; international and
  Indian Tribal treaties; private and public research groups; consumers; and the
  general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants are required to satisfy all DOC/NOAA standards and regulations,
  including routine and special terms and conditions for financial assistance
  programs application and conduct. Applicants may be required to show proof
  that they are mandated by their own State to monitor fishery resources and to
  manage or participate in the management of these resources.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency. This program is
  covered under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point
  of contact in his or her State for information on the process the State requires to
  be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for
  review.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  In FY 2003, the SEAMAP program changed to multi-year grants. Funding
  continues to be awarded annually, however, grant recipients submit three year
  proposals, that are reviewed and evaluated by the pertinent NMFS
  Office/Region/Science Center, and are subject to review for technical merit,
  soundness of design, competency of the applicant to perform the proposed work,
  potential contribution of the project to national or regional goals, and
  appropriateness and reasonableness of proposed costs. Projects approved for
  funding will be submitted to the NOAA Grants Management Division and the
  Department of Commerce's Office of Federal Assistance for review and
  approval. Subsequent years of the grant do not require proposals. All
  requirements for funding are worked by the Program Officer. Recipients receive
  notification when funding has been approved for the current fiscal year.
Deadlines:
  The Program Officer works with the SEAMAP grant recipients to coordinate the
  requirements for multi-year grants; three-year proposals were submitted 90 days
  before the start date. Application packages are submitted to: National Marine
  Fisheries Service, SEAMAP Program Officer, 9721 Executive Center Drive N.,
  St. Petersburg, FL 33702.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval time is expected to range from 30 to 90 days, which includes
  processing of the award through the NMFS, NOAA, and DOC financial
  assistance procedures. Subsequent funding for the multi-year grant is typically
  awarded 30 days after the Program Officer completes all funding requirements.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Multiple year awards of up to five years may be approved. Funding for multi-
  year projects beyond the first year is contingent upon the availability of program
  funds in subsequent fiscal years, and the extent to which the recipient meets
  project objectives and reporting requirements.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Projects are funded at up to 100 percent
  of the Federal share. Grantee matching contributions are not required, but are
  encouraged.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are normally for a 12-month period but in some instances, award periods
  may extend beyond 12 months, or may be completed in less than 12 months.
  Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and are to be
  expended in accordance with DOC/NOAA finance and reporting procedures.
  Funds are released in advance or by reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard
  Terms and Conditions document required for each grant.
Reports:
