  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the                
  Financial Assistance Award. Progress reports summarize work accomplished              
  and explain situations where expected work has not been completed. Financial          
  reports indicate use of funds during the financial reporting period designated.       
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June            
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit                   
  Organizations (to include hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall be    
  subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act Amendments        
  of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall be subject to           
  the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.                           
Records:                                                                                
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant   
  for three years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In cases   
  where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the three-year
  period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any issues        
  associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention period;  
  whichever is latest.                                                                  
Account Identification:                                                                 
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $1,139,543; FY 08 est not available; and FY            
  09 est not reported.                                                                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $25,000 - $298,934. Average: $110,993.                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  This Program provides an integrated, cooperative State/NMFS program that              
  collects fishery-independent information on stocks of finfish and shellfish that      
  are interjurisdictional in management and conservation need. This information         
  is used by all Southeast fishery management authorities to develop, implement         
  and monitor the effectiveness of fishery management plans and programs.               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for            
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for                 
  nonprofit and for- profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of        
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial          
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for                   
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial      
  organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.               
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Cynthia Binkley, Federal Program Officer, State/Federal Liaison Branch, 263           
  13th Ave. South, St. Petersburg, FL 33701. Telephone: (727) 824-5324. Fax:            
  (727) 824-5364.                                                                       
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://caldera.sero.nmfs.gov/grants/programs/seamap.htm.                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  11.407, Interjurisdictional Fisheries Act of 1986; 11.434, Cooperative Fishery        
  Statistics.                                                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Funds have been used for a variety of fishery-independent studies, including:         
  surveys of shrimp and ground fish, and reef fish resources in the Gulf of Mexico;     
  ichthyoplankton; physical oceanographic parameters; trawl surveys of fish and         
  invertebrate resources along the South Atlantic Bight; and lobster and conch          
  resources in the Caribbean.                                                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Proposals are selected based on the results of SEAMAP committee activities and        
  on negotiations between NMFS and cooperators. The nature and scope of                 
  cooperative activities are based on the needs of the cooperating agencies.            
  Funding is allocated by NMFS based on SEAMAP committee recommendations                
  and on the level of activities that are planned for accomplishment. Regardless of     
  source, proposals must undergo rigorous technical review and comply with all          
  OMB, DOC, and NOAA grants policies and procedures.                                    
                                                                                        
                                                                                        
11.436 COLUMBIA RIVER FISHERIES DEVELOPMENT

                                                                                        
PROGRAM                                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                          
  Mitchell Act, Public Law 79-676, 16 U.S.C. 756- 757.                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                             
  This program uses the facilities and personnel of the State fisheries agencies in     
  the Pacific Northwest to protect and enhance the salmon and steelhead resources       
  in the Columbia River Basin.                                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                    
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                              
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                              


                                                                                   11-08
  Funds can be used to develop and implement measures to protect and enhance
  salmon and steelhead resources in the Columbia River Basin.
Applicant Eligibility:
  State governments and quasi-public nonprofit institution/organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Federal, Interstate, State, and Quasi- public nonprofit entities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposal from a State or an Interstate Fishery Agency should be submitted in
  accordance with 15 CFR Part 24.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs". An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are evaluated by the National Marine Fisheries Service Northwest
  Regional Office and processed by the NOAA Grants Office. Pursuant to Section
  404 of Public Law 102-567, financial assistance awards to a State or Interstate
  Fishery Commission may be provided to the State on a sole-source basis.
Deadlines:
  According to the NOAA Grants Office, project applications should be submitted
  75 days in advance of desired effective date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 120 working days.
Appeals:
  No formal appeal procedure. If applications are unacceptable, the reasons are
  fully stated to the applicants. If the applicants desire to resubmit applications,
  projects must be revised in accordance with recommended changes.
Renewals:
  Continuation grants can be made on an annual basis for approved multi-year
  projects. Future or continued funding will be at the discretion of NMFS based
  on the availability of each fiscal year funding and satisfactory performance.
  Procedures for renewals are the same as application procedures.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Projects are funded at up to 100 percent
  Federal share.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Cooperative agreements are normally made for one year. Funds are released in
  advance or by reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard Terms and
  Conditions document required for each grant.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the
  Financial Assistance Award. The Department of Commerce Financial
  Assistance Standard Terms and Conditions generally require that performance
  and financial reports be submitted semi- annually unless a waiver is provided by
  the NOAA Grants Officer.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant
  for three (3) years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In
  cases where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the
  three-year period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any
  issues associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention
  period; whichever is latest.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $13,200,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $57,314 to $4,912,171. Average: $1,990,858.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Northwest Region: State and Tribal fisheries agencies in Oregon, Washington,
  and Idaho involved in the program operated eighteen salmon hatcheries and
  rearing ponds, over seven hundred irrigation diversions screens, and more than
  forty fish ladders, and conducted hatchery improvement studies. Northwest
  Center: Analyses of biological data collection and research related to endangered
                                                                                   211
