  and threatened salmonid species listed under the Endangered Species Act, used        
  by fisheries managers and policy makers to determine and implement changes           
  needed to manage the water and fisheries resources of the Columbia and Snake         
  Rivers.                                                                              
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  15 CFR Part 24, Mitchell Act. Allowable cost will be determined in accordance        
  with OMB Circular A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes;            
  OMB Circular A- 122 for nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular         
  A-21 for institutions of higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial         
  organizations. Financial assistance management will be in accordance with 15         
  CFR Part 14 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit    
  and commercial organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local            
  governments.                                                                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Northwest Region: Robert Z. Smith, Director, Columbia River Fisheries                
  Development Program, NOAA/NMFS, Salmon Recovery Division, Hatcheries                 
  and Inland Fisheries Branch, 1201 NE Lloyd Blvd., Portland, OR 97232-1274.           
  Telephone: (503) 231-2009. Fax: (503) 872-2737. E-mail: rz.smith@noaa.gov.           
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.noaa.gov .                                                                
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Northwest Region: All projects are State and Federal cooperative efforts to          
  protect and enhance the salmon and steelhead resources in the region. Examples       
  of project activities include: Operation and maintenance of fish hatcheries, fish    
  ladders, fish screens, and other fish passage facilities; fish passage and water     
  flow planning and input to involved agencies; and studies on irrigation screens,     
  stream improvement, and hatchery improvement. Northwest Center: Biological           
  sampling and data collection for transportation, fish guidance, and migration        
  studies of Pacific salmon on the Columbia and Snake Rivers project;                  
  monitoring and recording biological and spawning behavior data on captive            
  broodstock population; development of captive broodstock rearing techniques,         
  monitoring salmon spawning behavior within a controlled-environment behavior         
  flume, and the continuation of bio-assay, predator-survival, and PIT-tag             
  research.                                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Priority consideration is given to projects that directly relate to NOAA statutory   
  responsibilities (Mitchell Act) and to court actions and Federal treaties. Special   
  consideration is given to Columbia Basin Watershed planning activities and           
  activities impacting Federal responsibilities under the Endangered Species Act.      
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
11.437 PACIFIC FISHERIES DATA PROGRAM

                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act, as amended,                
  Public Law 94-265, 16 U.S.C. 1854(e).                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  This cooperative program provides support to State fishery agencies to enhance       
  their data collection and analysis systems to respond to coast wide and insular      
  area fisheries management needs. The program supports fisheries data collection      
  and analysis projects that provide catch, effort, economic and biological data on    
  federally managed species to the Fishery Management Councils as needed for           
  continuing management of Pacific fisheries.                                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds can be used to enhance State fishery data collection and analysis systems      
  to respond to Federal fisheries management needs.                                    
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  State governments (including territories of Guam and American Samoa and the          
  Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands) and quasi-public nonprofit             
  institution/organizations.                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  The agency of a State government authorized under its laws to regulate               
  commercial and recreational fisheries.                                               
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Proposal from a State or an Interstate Fishery Agency should be submitted in         
  accordance with 15 CFR Part 24.                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review.                                           


212                                                                              11-08

Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are evaluated by the receiving National Marine Fisheries Service
  Regional Office and processed by the NOAA Grants Office. Pursuant to Section
  404 of Public Law 102-567, financial assistance awards to a State or Interstate
  Fishery Commission may be provided on a sole-source basis.
Deadlines:
  According to the NOAA Grants Office, project applications should be submitted
  75 days in advance of desired effective date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 60 to 120 working days.
Appeals:
  No formal appeal procedure. If applications are unacceptable, the reasons are
  fully stated to the applicants. If the applicants desire to resubmit applications,
  projects must be revised in accordance with recommended changes.
Renewals:
  Continuation grants on an annual basis for approved multi-year projects. Future
  or continued funding will be at the discretion of NMFS based on the availability
  of each fiscal year funding and satisfactory performance. Procedures for
  renewals are the same as application procedures.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Projects are funded at up to 100 percent
  Federal share.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are normally made for one year. Funds are released in advance or by
  reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard Terms and Conditions document
  required for each grant.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the
  Financial Assistance Award. The Department of Commerce Financial
  Assistance Standard Terms and Conditions generally requires that performance
  and financial reports be submitted semi-annually unless a waiver is provided by
  the NOAA Grants Officer.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant
  for three years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In cases
  where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the three-year
  period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any issues
  associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention period;
  whichever is latest.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $20,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $36,000 to $7,694,000. Average: $3,774,500.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Southwest Region: Document the large-scale movements and behaviors of
  Atlantic and Pacific bluefin tuna in relation to oceanographic features. Use of a
  range of electronic tagging technologies to document the movements and
  behaviors of Atlantic and Pacific bluefin tuna.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  15 CFR Part 24, Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act.
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for
  nonprofit and for- profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial
  organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  Alaska: Alaska Regional Office, Shawn Carey, NMFS, P.O. Box 12668, Juneau,
  AK 99802-1668. Telephone: (907) 586-7845. Use the same numbers for FTS.
  Email: shawn.carey@noaa.gov. Northwest Regional Office, Stehpen Freese,
  7600 Sand Point Way, NE, Seattle, WA 98115-6349 Telephone: (206) 526-6115
  or 6113). Email Stephen .Freese@noaa.gov. Northwest Center, Northwest: Dr.
  Robert Iwamoto, OMI Director, Northwest Fisheries Science Center, 2725
