  Montlake Boulevard East, Seattle, WA 98112-2097. Telephone: (206) 860-              
  3200. Fax: (206) 860-3442. Email: Bob.Iwamoto@noaa.gov. Pacific Islands             
  Region: Scott Bloom, Federal Program Officer, 1601 Kapiolani Blvd., Honolulu,       
  HI 96814-4700. Telephone: (808) 944-2218. Email: scott.bloom@noaa.gov.              
  Southwest: Barb Decker, Federal Program Officer, Southwest Center,                  
  Telephone: (858) 546-7007. Email: Barb.Decker@noaa.gov.                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Patty Zielinski, Fisheries Statistics and Economics Division, Office of Science     
  and Technology, National Marine Fisheries Service, Office of Science and            
  Technology, 1315 East West Highway, SSMC3, Room 12441, Silver Spring,               
  MD 20910. Telephone: (301)713-2328. Fax: (301)713-4137. E-mail:                     
  Patty.Zielinski@noaa.gov.                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  Alaska: http//www.st.nmfs.gov/st1/.                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  All: Program funds State projects that enhance State systems to respond to coast    
  wide and Pacific islands fisheries management needs under the Magnuson-             
  Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act. Examples include                   
  sampling of landings to determine species composition, special processing of        
  State-collected fisheries data to conform to specifications of regional fishery data
  management systems, and monitoring domestic shore side ground fish landings         
  in Alaska, as well as foreign tuna transshipment activities in Guam, providing      
  catch and effort data necessary to monitor in-season harvest quotas by species,     
  group, gear type and regulatory area, to evaluate the effectiveness of fisheries    
  management programs in the western Pacific region, and to update the historic       
  ground fish catch database, as well as Year-round data collection for groundfish    
  fisheries off Washington, Oregon and California. Santa Cruz: California             
  Habitat Restoration Data Projects. In Alaska, 7 fisheries data collection and       
  management projects. Hawaii: Fishery Data Collection to Guam, CNMI, Hawaii,         
  American Samoa.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Priority consideration is given to State projects that provide the Fishery          
  Management Councils with the timely information needed to make the                  
  management decisions required under fishery management plans.                       
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
11.438 PACIFIC COAST SALMON RECOVERY-PACIFIC                                          
SALMON TREATY PROGRAM                                                                 
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Pacific Coast Salmon Treaty Act, Pacific Coastal Salmon Recovery - Public Law       
  106-113, Public Law 99-5, 16 U.S.C. 3634, 16 U.S.C. 3641.                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  This is a cooperative program that assists the States in salmon restoration and in  
  fulfilling responsibilities under the Pacific Salmon Treaty by providing            
  administrative management. Support is provided to treaty Indian tribes for          
  salmon recovery and to meet the needs of the Pacific Salmon Commission and          
  U.S. international commitments under the treaty.                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Funds may be used by State agencies and treaty Indian tribes to assist in salmon    
  recovery and in fulfilling Federal responsibilities under the Pacific Salmon        
  Treaty.                                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State government agencies and treaty Indian tribes.                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  This program benefits the State governments, treaty Indian tribes, Federal          
  government, international relationships, and conservation of a public resource by   
  ensuring that State agencies and tribal governments participate in the recovery     
  and international management of salmon on the west coast.                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Proposal from a State agency or treaty Indian tribe should be submitted in          
  accordance with 15 CFR Part 24.                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official     
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information  
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review.                                          
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the       
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application             
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to    
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are          
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.               


                                                                                 11-08
Award Procedure:
  Applications are evaluated by the National Marine Fisheries Service Regional
  Office and processed by the NOAA Grants Management Division. Under
  Section 404 of Public Law 102-567, financial assistance awards to a State or
  Interstate Fishery Commission may be provided on a sole-source basis.
Deadlines:
  According to the NOAA Grants Management Division, project applications
  should be submitted at least 75 days in advance of desired effective date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Within 75 calendar days from the receipt of a complete and acceptable
  application.
Appeals:
  No formal appeal procedure. If applications are unacceptable, the reasons are
  fully stated to the applicants. If the applicants desire to resubmit applications,
  applications must be revised in accordance with recommended changes.
Renewals:
  Continuation grants can be made on an annual basis for approved multi-year
  projects. Future or continued funding will be at the discretion of NMFS, based
  on the availability of each fiscal year funding and satisfactory performance.
  Procedures for renewals are the same as application procedures.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  For the Pacific Coast Salmon Recovery Program, States are required to provide a
  matching amount of 25 percent. Treaty Indian tribes are not required to provide
  a match for Pacific Salmon Recovery Program funds. The Pacific Salmon
  Treaty funds have no statutory formula; projects are funded at up to 100 percent
  Federal share.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are normally made for one year. Funds are released in advance or by
  reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard Terms and Conditions document
  required for each grant.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the
  Financial Assistance Award. The Department of Commerce Financial
  Assistance Standard Terms and Conditions generally require that performance
  and financial reports be submitted semi-annually unless a waiver is provided by
  the NOAA Grants Officer.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant
  for three years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In cases
  where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the three-year
  period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any issues
  associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention period;
  whichever is latest.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $95,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $57,963 to $17,850,000. Average: $8,953,981.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Pacific Salmon Treaty, Alaska Region: Since implementation of the Pacific
  Salmon Treaty in 1985, the State of Alaska has provided the necessary support
  to and has been involved with the Pacific Salmon Commission in accordance
  with the treaty. Pacific Salmon Treaty, Northwest Region: Awards are made on
  annual basis to the states of Washington, Idaho and Oregon to participate in the
  implementation of the 1985 Pacific Salmon Treaty. The Pacific Coastal Salmon
  Recovery Fund (PCSRF) was established in FY 2000 to provide Grants to the
  States and tribes to assist State, tribal and local salmon conservation and
  recovery efforts. The fund supplements existing State, tribal and federal
  programs to foster development of federal-state- tribal-local partnerships in
  salmon and steelhead recovery and conservation; promotes efficiencies and
  effectiveness in recovery efforts through enhanced sharing and pooling of
  capabilities, expertise and information. Significant contributions are being
  made through this program to the conservation, restoration, and sustainability of
  Pacific salmon and steelhead runs and the habitats on which they depend.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Pacific Salmon Treaty; 16 U.S.C. 3631 et seq. Allowable cost will be
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for State and local
  governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for nonprofit and for-
  profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of higher education;
  and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial assistance
                                                                                      213
