  management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for institutions of            
  higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial organizations,     
  and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Pacific Salmon Treaty - Northwest Region: Dave Cantillon, NOAA/NMFS,                
  7600 Sand Point Way NE., Seattle, WA 98115. Telephone: (206) 526-4140,              
  Fax: (206) 526-6534. E-mail: Dave.Cantillon@noaa.gov. Pacific Coast Salmon          
  Recovery Program - Alaska Region: Shawn Carey, NMFS, P.O. Box 21668,                
  Juneau, AK 99802-1668. Telephone: (907)586-7845. Use the same numbers for           
  FTS. E-mail: shawn.carey@noaa.gov. - Northwest Region: Joe Scordino,                
  NOAA/NMFS, 7600 Sand Point Way NE, Seattle, WA 98115. Telephone: (206)              
  526-6150, Fax: (206) 526-6426, E-mail: Joe.Scordino@noaa.gov. Southwest             
  Region: Patricia Culver, NOAA/NMFS, 501 W. Ocean Blvd., Suite 4200, Long            
  Beach, CA 90802. Telephone: (562) 980-4239, E-mail:                                 
  trisha.culver@noaa.gov.                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  Alaska - http://www.fakr.noaa.gov.                                                  
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Alaska: Pacific Coast Salmon Recovery projects will provide support for             
  salmon habitat restoration, salmon enhancement and salmon research.                 
  Northwest: Since the inception of this program, grantees have provided funds        
  (primarily as subgrants) to support over 2,600 individual projects in               
  Washington, Oregon and Idaho.                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Priority consideration is given to State and tribal programs that directly address  
  salmon recovery or the information needs of the Pacific Salmon Commission for       
  international management of salmon fisheries stocks under the Pacific Salmon        
  Treaty.                                                                             
                                                                                      
11.439 MARINE MAMMAL DATA PROGRAM                                                     
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Marine Mammal Act of 1972, 16 U.S.C. 1361 et seq.; and Marine Mammal                
  Rescue Assistance Act of 2000, 16 U.S.C. 1421f-1.                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  Nondiscretionary funding under this authorization provides support to State         
  agencies for the collection and analysis of information on marine mammals that      
  occur in the State's waters and interact with State managed fisheries and other     
  marine resources. Information collected is used by the State and Federal            
  governments to conserve marine mammals, address or resolve conflicts between        
  marine mammals, fisheries and living marine resources, and to improve their         
  understanding of the health of individual marine mammals as well as marine          
  mammal populations. Discretionary funds may be announced in the Federal             
  Register under competitive programs to undertake research in subjects which         
  are relevant to the protection and conservation of marine mammals.                  
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Nondiscretionary funds may be nondiscretionary and appropriated for a               
  particular recipient for a particular purpose such as the Marine Mammal             
  cooperative agreements in Alaska (16 U.S.C. 1388) or allocated to State             
  agencies for collection of information on marine mammals that occur in State        
  waters and interact with fisheries and other marine resources. Discretionary        
  funds announced in the Federal Register under competitive programs may              
  restrict the use of funds or include additional program restrictions based on the   
  appropriation language.                                                             
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State governments and quasi-public nonprofit institutions or organizations. U.S.    
  Marine Mammal Stranding Network participants, including state and local             
  governments, academia, aquaria, non profits, private individuals and                
  organizations. Eligibility may vary under programs announced in the Federal         
  Register.                                                                           
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  This program benefits the States that have marine mammals in waters under           
  State jurisdiction and supports Federal requirements for conservation of marine     
  mammals, and other public resources. The program also benefits the active           
  volunteer U.S. marine mammal stranding network members throughout coastal           
  states.                                                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Proposal from a State fishery agency or an Interstate Fisheries Commission, or      
  an eligible stranding network member, should be submitted in accordance with        
  15 CFR Part 14; 15 CFR Part 24 and the applicable Federal Register notice.          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          


214                                                                             11-08

  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs". A State applicant should consult the office or
  official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more
  information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for
  assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are evaluated by the National Marine Fisheries Service Regional or
  Headquarters Offices and processed by the NOAA Grants Management
  Division. Pursuant to Section 404 of Public Law 102- 567, financial assistance
  awards to a State or Interstate Fishery Commission may be provided to the State
  on a non- discretionary basis for projects involving the collection and analysis of
  information on marine mammals that occur in the State's waters and interact
  with State managed fisheries and other marine resources. For discretionary
  funds including Stranding Networks, a competitive award process is announced
  in the Federal Register for projects related to stranding network activities. A
  small percentage of discretionary funds will be available to be provided on a
  non-competed basis for catastrophic stranding events.
Deadlines:
  According to the NOAA Grants Management Division, project applications
  should be submitted at least 75 days in advance of desired effective date.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Within 75 calendar days after a complete and acceptable application is received.
Appeals:
  No formal appeal procedure.
Renewals:
  For projects involving the collection and analysis of information on marine
  mammals that occur in the State's waters and interact with State managed
  fisheries and other marine resources, continuation grants can be made on an
  annual basis for approved multi- year projects. For projects related to stranding
  network activities, grants or cooperative agreements will be awarded for a
  maximum award period of three years; however the total Federal share of each
  award is fixed at a maximum of $100,000 regardless of the funding period
  requested. Future or continued funding will be at the discretion of NMFS, based
  on the availability of each fiscal year funding and satisfactory performance.
  Procedures for renewals are the same as application procedures.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  For projects involving the collection and analysis of information on marine
  mammals that occur in the State's waters and interact with State managed
  fisheries and other marine resources, the program has no statutory formula.
  Projects are funded at up to 100 percent Federal share. For projects related to
  stranding network activities the maximum Federal award for each project will
  be $100,000, and a minimum cost share of 25 percent of total project costs is
  required.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are normally made for one year. Funds are released in advance or by
  reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard Terms and Conditions document
  required for each grant.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the
  Financial Assistance Award. The Department of Commerce Financial Assistance
  Standard Terms and Conditions generally require that performance and financial
  reports be submitted semi-annually unless a waiver is provided by the NOAA
  Grants Officer.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of grantees or sub grantees are required to be
  maintained in accordance the terms and conditions of the Financial Assistance
  Award. The grantee must maintain records for three years from the date when
  the final expenditure report is submitted.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $25,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $50,000 to $2,807,000; $530,826.
