  Management.                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  This program is non- competitive. It is Congressionally mandated.                  
                                                                                     
11.443 SHORT TERM CLIMATE FLUCTUATIONS                                               
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                   
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Public Law 95-224, 15 U.S.C. 313; 49 U.S.C. 1463.                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To support studies relevant to the diagnosis and prediction of short-term climate  
  fluctuations.                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  The program at the National Weather Service/National Centers for                   
  Environmental Prediction/Climate Prediction Center (CPC) is based on the           
  availability of funds and the relevance of a proposal to CPC's mission: "To        
  maintain a continuous watch on short- term climate fluctuations and to diagnose    
  and predict them." Potential applicants may submit a written proposal with a       
  budget sheet for review and consideration. The proposal must follow application    
  procedures, set by the NOAA/Grants Management Division. Cost-sharing by            
  each recipient is usually 5 percent.                                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Public and private educational institutions, and other persons in institutions     
  qualified to conduct climate-related studies to provide climate-related services.  
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  The ultimate benefit will go to the general public through improved methods and    
  knowledge of the climate system and potentially improved forecasts.                
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for             
  institutions of higher education, A-87 for State and local governments, and A-     
  122 for nonprofit organizations.                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official

  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information

                                                                                     
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Applications for Federal Assistance (SF- 424) with the proposal and budget         
  estimate are required.                                                             
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications are approved within NOAA.                                             
Deadlines:                                                                           
  New applications must be received no later than June 1, and renewals no later      
  than July 1, at the Grants Management Division for award funding in a fiscal       
  year.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  New applications: 120 days (30 days for review/evaluations, 90 days for            
  processing). Renewals: 90 days (30 days for review/evaluations, 60 days for        
  processing).                                                                       
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Renewals are available, subject to project performance and availability of funds.  
  The procedure is the same as a new application.                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula.                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Awards are generally made for 1-year periods. Funds are released as needed by      
  recipient, usually once a month.                                                   
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly expenditure reports and final reports are required.                      
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and NonProfit Organizations,       
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in        
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal         
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted   
  in Circular No. A-133. Recipients that are States, local governments, non-profit   
  organizations (including hospitals), and institutions of higher learning are       
  subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act Amendments     
  of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall be subject to        
  the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.                        
Records:                                                                             
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical          
  reports, and other records of grantees or sub grantees are required to be retained 
                                                                                11-08
  in accordance with provisions of OMB Circular No. A-110 for institutions of
  higher education and other nonprofit organizations, and with 10 CFR 24 for
  State and local governments.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not available.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Not available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for
  nonprofit and for- profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial
  organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Climate Prediction Center, National Centers for Environmental Prediction,
  National Weather Service, World Weather Building, 5200 Auth Rd., Camp
  Springs, MD 20746. Telephone: (301) 763-8000 Ext. 7512.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.noaa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) University of Maryland - Cooperative Institute, Climate Studies; (2) UCAR -
  Scientific Program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals reviewed and approved on basis of relevance to program objectives,
  potential for service, cost effectiveness, and availability of funds.
11.444 HAWAII SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES
DEVELOPMENT (AQUACULTURE PROGRAM)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE, NATIONAL OCEANIC AND
  ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  16 U.S.C. 758b; Executive Order No. 13-089.
OBJECTIVES:
  The development of commercially feasible technology for high-value marine
  finfish in the United States. The ultimate goal of the Hawaiian Fisheries
  Development project is to increase the availability of marine finfish for
  aquaculture and stock enhancement purposed in the U.S., with the secondary
  goal of promoting the development of a sustainable commercial aquaculture
  industry for high-value species.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Establish a consistent source of supply to satisfy the growing market for marine
  finfish. Funds are appropriated by Congress for the Oceanic Institute.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private nonprofit institution operating for scientific purposes.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The beneficiaries of the aquaculture program would be anyone/general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for
  institutions of higher education, A-87 for State and local governments, and A-
  122 for nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Projects approved for funding will be submitted to the NOAA Grants Office for
  review and approval.
Deadlines:
  Completed application package must be received at the following address at
  least 90 days before the requested start date of the project: National Marine
  Fisheries Service, Pacific Islands Fisheries Science Center, 2570 Dole Street,
  Honolulu, HI 96822.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
                                                                                 217
