  Approval time for awards is expected to range from 90 to 150 days. That               
  includes processing of the award through the NMFS, NOAA Grants and DOC.               
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  This program is expected to be renewed through fiscal year 2005.                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This program has no statutory formula. Projects are funded at up to 100 percent       
  Federal share.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Awards are normally awarded for a 12-month period. Financial status reports           
  are completed and submitted. Funds are released in advance or by                      
  reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard Terms and Conditions document             
  required for each grant.                                                              
Reports:                                                                                
  Semiannual progress and financial reports are due 30 days after each calendar         
  half. An annual report is due 90 days after each award period.                        
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June            
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit                   
  Organizations, nonfederal entities that receive financial assistance of $500,000 a    
  year or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit         
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a         
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,      
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                                
Records:                                                                                
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents statistical              
  reports, and other records of grantees or subgrantees are required to be retained     
  in accordance with provisions of 15 CFR Part 14 for institutions of higher            
  education or other nonprofit organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State         
  and local governments from the date of the financial report. Generally, a             
  recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant for three (3)  
  years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In cases where       
  litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the three-year-year 
  period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any issues        
  associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention period;  
  whichever is latest.                                                                  
Account Identification:                                                                 
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants and Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $525,000; FY 08 est not available;          
  and FY 09 est not reported.                                                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $439,800 to $869,000. Average: $654,000 per year.                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  The goal of the Hawaiian Fisheries Development (HDF) Project is the generation        
  and transfer of aquaculture information, technologies and products that can be        
  applied to restoration and maintenance of sustainable fish production, reef           
  ecosystems, and fisheries of the United States.                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                                
  Pacific Island Fisheries Science Center: Bruce Mundy, Pacific Islands Fisheries       
  Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, 2570 Dole Street, Honolulu,        
  HI 96822. Telephone: (808) 983-5374. Fax: (808) 983-2902. E-mail:                     
  Bruce.Mundy@noaa.gov.                                                                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                               
  Pacific Island Fisheries Science Center: Bruce Mundy, Pacific Islands Fisheries       
  Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, 2570 Dole Street, Honolulu,        
  HI 96822. Telephone: (808) 983-5374. Fax: (808) 983-2902. E-mail:                     
  Bruce.Mundy@noaa.gov.                                                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                       
Web Site Address:                                                                       
  http://www.pifsc.noaa.gov.                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                       
  None.                                                                                 
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                       
  Proposals are selected from several sources: Unsolicited proposals; special           
  solicitations in the Federal Register or Commerce Business Daily; or                  
  Congressionally-mandated projects. Regardless of source, proposals must               
  undergo rigorous technical review and comply with all OMB, DOC, and NOAA              
  grants policies and procedures.                                                       
                                                                                        
11.445 HAWAII STOCK MANAGEMENT PROGRAM                                                  
                                                                                        
      (SEMFISH)                                                                         
                                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                         
  NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE, NATIONAL OCEANIC AND                               


218                                                                               11-08

  ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1854(e).
OBJECTIVES:
  Multi-year effort to develop and test the technology of a marine stock
  management program in Hawaii. The marine hatchery- and-release stock
  enhancement concept may afford the State of Hawaii a powerful management
  option for protecting and enhancing some of Hawaii's depleted nearshore fishery
  resources.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds are to be used to develop and test the technology for a marine stock
  management program in Hawaii. This Hawaii Stock Management project is
  developing and testing technology for replenishing depleted near shore (marine)
  populations.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private nonprofit institutions operating for scientific purposes.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The beneficiaries of the Hawaiian stock management program would be
  anyone/general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for
  institutions of higher education, A-87 for State and local governments, and A-
  122 for nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Projects approved for funding will be submitted to the NOAA Grants Office for
  review and approval.
Deadlines:
  Completed application package must be received at the following address at
  least 90 days before the requested start date of the project: National Marine
  Fisheries Service, Pacific Islands Fisheries Science Center, 2570 Dole Street,
  Honolulu, HI 96822.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval time for awards is expected to range from 90 to 150 days. That
  includes processing of the award through the NMFS, NOAA Grants and DOC.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Projects are funded at up to 100 percent
  Federal share.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are normally for a 12 month period. Financial status reports are
  completed and submitted. Funds are released in advance or by reimbursement,
  as agreed to in the Standard Terms and Conditions document required for each
  grant.
Reports:
  Semiannual progress and financial reports are due 30 days after each calendar
  half. An annual report is due 90 days after each award period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of grantees or subgrantees are required to be retained
  in accordance with provisions of OMB Circular No. A-ll0 for institutions of
  higher education or other nonprofit organizations and with 15 CFR Part 24 for
  State and local governments. Generally, a recipient is required to retain records
  relating to a particular grant for three (3) years from the date of submission of
  the final financial report. In cases where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated
  prior to expiration of the three-year period, records must be retained until the
  action and resolution of any issues associated with it are complete or until the
  end of the three-year retention period; whichever is latest.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
