  students during summer months and vacation periods where students learn about       
  the laboratory's mission and perform hands-on assignments.                          
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The grant proposals are evaluated internally by OAR EEO staff, Acquisition and      
  Management Division of NOAA Mountain Administrative Support Center                  
  (MASC), MASC Finance Division, NOAA Grants Office staff, and NOAA                   
  General Counsel.                                                                    
                                                                                      
11.450 AUTOMATED FLOOD WARNING SYSTEMS (AFWS)                                         
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                    
  NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                    
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  15 U.S.C. 313; 33 U.S.C. 883d.                                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  The objective of the Automated Flood Warning Systems Program is to provide          
  funding to communities with flood or flash flood problems that affect safety of     
  life and property to assist them in creating, renovating, or enhancing Automated    
  Flood Warning Systems (AFWS).                                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants.                                                                     
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  The funds are used by entities who can demonstrate they have significant flood      
  and flash flood risk, and ability to operate and maintain an AFWS. Data             
  received by the NWS will be redistributed to the public without restrictions.       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible applicants are States, counties, municipalities, educational institutions, 
  and non-profit organizations.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Since the basic goal of the AFWS program is to effectively reduce loss of life      
  and damage resulting from flooding, benefits accrue to the general public.          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  The applicant must describe the organizational entity that will administer the      
  AFWS on a long-term basis. Documentation may also include a copy of by-laws         
  for non-profit organizations, or other supporting documentation that affirms the    
  viability of the organization.                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  No preapplication coordination is required. However, since proposals must           
  demonstrate a level of coordination with the local NOAA/NWS forecast office         
  and/or River Forecast Center, it is strongly recommended that applicants discuss    
  potential interactions with relevant NOAA/NWS personnel prior to submission.        
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The recommended procedure is to file electronically via the Federal government      
  portal, http://www.grants.gov. The applicant must submit a Standard Form 424        
  and other associated forms. Along with the forms described above, the applicant     
  must provide a statement of work, project description, and a detailed budget        
  narrative and justification. If electronic filing is unavailable, application       
  packages may be downloaded from                                                     
  http://www.ofa.noaa.gov/%7Egrants/appkit.html, and sent to NOAA/NWS;                
  1325 East-West Highway, AFWS Program Manager W/OS31, Room 13396,                    
  Silver Spring, MD.                                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  An initial administrative review/screening will be conducted to determine           
  compliance with requirements/completeness. All proposals will then be               
  evaluated and individually ranked in accordance with the assigned weights of        
  published evaluation criteria by an independent peer panel review. Three to         
  seven NOAA/NWS experts may be used in this process. The merit reviewers             
  ratings are used to produce a rank order of the proposals. The Selecting Official   
  then makes final award recommendations after considering the peer panel             
  reviews, selection factors listed in the Federal Register Notice, and funding       
  availability. The Selecting Official's recommendations will be in rank order        
  unless the proposal is selected out of rank order based upon one or more of the     
  selection factors.                                                                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Not available.                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not available.                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Grant period is up to 24 months for this program. Award of a grant does not         
  preclude the applicant from applying for subsequent grants.

Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no matching requirements. Projects are accepted at up to 100       
  percent Federal share.                                                              
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The award period shall not exceed 24 months, with an anticipated start date of      
  May 1, 2007. Applications to supplement existing AFWS are eligible to compete       


220                                                                             11-08

  with applications for new awards. If an application is awarded, the NOAA/NWS
  has no obligation to provide additional funding in connection with that award in
  subsequent years. Funds shall be spent during the award's budget period unless
  the applicant requests and justifies an extension prior to the period of award, and
  the request is approved by NOAA Grants Office. Funds shall be disbursed
  through the Automated Standard Application for Payments (ASAP) System.
Reports:
  Progress and financial reports are required semi-annually. Final reports are due
  within 90 days of the expiration of the award.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. In
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27,
  2003); Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations;
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Financial records and supporting documents and all other records, i.e. property,
  performance work products, patents, etc. pertinent to the agreement shall be
  maintained for a period of 3 years from the date of the approved financial report.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $425,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09
  est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $5,000 to $100,000 per year.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  AFWS have been credited with saving numerous lives and millions of dollars of
  property by giving participants and users the ability to obtain real time rain and
  stream gage data. AFWS funds have been used to purchase rain gages and
  communications equipment to support operational warning systems in areas with
  a high flash flood risk.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for
  nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial
  organizations, and with 15 CRF Part 24 for state and local governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  AFWS Operations Manager, Hydrologic Services Division, National Weather
  Service Eastern Region - W/ER2, Airport Corporate Center, 630 Johnson
  Avenue, Bohemia, NY 11716. Telephone: (631) 244-0112.
Headquarters Office:
  Headquarters Office: AFWS Program Office, Hydrologic Services Division,
  Office of Climate, Water, and Weather Services, National Weather Service -
  W/OS3, 1325 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301)
  713-0006 x154.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ago.noaa.gov/grants/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Three Rivers Wet Weather of Pittsburgh awarded $100,000 to upgrade an
  existing gauge network with radio telemetry and integrate its data stream with
  that from other flood warning systems. City of Fort Wayne, IN, awarded $95,000
  to upgrade the city's existing AFWS with new hardware. County of Augusta,
  VA., awarded $48,135 to add additional rainfall and stream gauges. Department
  of Public Works, Gila County, AZ, awarded $25,000 to upgrade and enhance an
  existing flood warning system with new rain and stream gauges.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Selection criteria are announced within solicitations published in the Federal
  Register. Examples of criteria are flood risk, technical merit, qualification of
  applicants, and cost effectiveness.
11.452 UNALLIED INDUSTRY PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC AGENCY, NATIONAL
  MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
