  reduce beach erosion. Provided funds to restore oyster beds in Louisiana,            
  Mississippi, and Alabama that were damaged as a result of hurricanes and             
  flooding. Funded removal of underwater obstacles to navigation and fishing that      
  were left after hurricanes. Direct financial assistance to shrimp fishers and blue   
  crab fishers in the Southeast U.S. and development of programs to market             
  shrimp and blue crabs. PIRO: Hawaii Seafood Safety and Marketing; Fishery            
  Observer Program, Longline Vessel Procurement and Training , Skip Jack               
  Fishing Training, Fishpond Revitalization Project, Fishermans Cooperative            
  Market, By-catch Utilization Projects.                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Proposals may be selected from several sources, e.g., unsolicited proposals,         
  Congressionally-mandated projects, applications received as a result of notices      
  published in the Federal Register. Recipients and sub recipients are subject to      
  all applicable Federal laws and Federal and Departmental policies, regulations,      
  and procedures applicable to Federal financial assistance awards.                    
                                                                                       
                                                                                       
11.454 UNALLIED MANAGEMENT PROJECTS                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                     
  NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                     
  COMMERCE                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1956, 16 U.S.C. 661; Magnuson Fishery          
  Conservation and Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 1854(e); National Fisheries               
  Research and Development Program, 15 U.S.C. 713c 3(d), Department of                 
  Commerce Appropriation Act of 1999.                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  Projects provide economic, sociological, public policy, and other information        
  needed by Federal and State natural resource administrators for conserving and       
  managing fishery resources and protected species and their environment in            
  Federal, State, and U.S. territorial waters. Information derived from project        
  studies may consist of econometric data, user profiles, sociological case studies,   
  policy and systems analyses, and other knowledge, and is used in such decisions      
  as resource allocations, total and zonal harvest determinations, and initial         
  apportionment of harvesting rights under controlled access management                
  regimes. Primary users of project information include the National Marine            
  Fisheries Service, Regional Fishery Management Councils, Interstate Marine           
  Fisheries Commissions, State, and other Federal resource management agencies.        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  Funds can be used by recipients to support a wide variety of management              
  activities for high-priority marine and estuarine resources, especially for species  
  and/or their habitat currently under or proposed for future Federal or               
  interjurisdictional management.                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Eligible applicants for assistance include: State and local governments,             
  including their universities and colleges; U.S. territorial agencies; federally and  
  state recognized Indian Tribal governments; private universities and colleges;       
  private profit and nonprofit research and conservation organizations and             
  individuals.                                                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  This program benefits Federal, State and interstate marine resource conservation     
  and management agencies; U.S. and foreign commercial and recreational fishing        
  industries; conservation organizations; academic institutions; international and     
  Indian Tribal treaties; private and public research groups; consumers; and the       
  general public.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Applicants are required to satisfy all DOC/NOAA standards and regulations,           
  including routine and special terms and conditions for financial assistance          
  programs application and conduct.                                                    
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency. This program is           
  covered under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."            
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point    
  of contact in his or her State for information on the process the State requires to  
  be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for    
  review. See http://www.whitehouse.gov/omb/grants/spoc.html.                          
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the        
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application              
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to     
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are           
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Proposals are initially evaluated by the pertinent NMFS Office/Region/Science        
  Center, and are subject to review for technical merit, soundness of design,          
  competency of the applicant to perform the proposed work, potential                  
  contribution of the project to national or regional goals, and appropriateness and   


222                                                                              11-08

  reasonableness of proposed costs. Projects approved for funding will be
  submitted to the NOAA Grants Management Division for review and approval.
Deadlines:
  Project applications must be received by the receiving NMFS office at least 90
  days before the requested start date of the project.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval time is expected to range from 90 to 120 days, which includes
  processing of the award through the NMFS and NOAA financial assistance
  procedures.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Approval time is expected to range from 90 to 120 days, which includes
  processing of the award through the NMFS and NOAA financial assistance
  procedures.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Projects are funded at up to 100 percent
  of the Federal share. Grantee matching contributions are not required, but are
  encouraged.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are normally for a 12-month or 18-month period, but in some instances,
  award periods may extend beyond these periods, or may be completed in less
  time. Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and are
  expended in accordance with DOC/NOAA finance and reporting procedures.
  Funds are requested through the Financial Management System as part of the
  Department of Treasury's Automated Standard Application for Payment System
  (ASAP). See http://www.fms.treas.gov/asap/pr_gettingstarted.html.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the
  Financial Assistance Award. Progress reports summarize work accomplished
  and explain situations where expected work has not been completed. Financial
  reports indicate use of funds on a semi-annual schedule.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant
  for three years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In cases
  where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the three-year
  period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any issues
  associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention period;
  whichever is latest.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $12,000,000; FY 08 est not
  available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $146,500 to $1,225,000. Average: $539,250.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Alaska Region: Development of programs seeking to stabilize and restore
  fisheries access to the Gulf of Alaska community-based small boat fleets and
  assist in the creation of new fisheries opportunities. Provide research assistance
  to aid in run forecasting and restoration of Yukon River salmon. These
  activities are carried out by 5 grants to Alaska recipients. Northeast Region:
  Work in 2005 focused on: A 6-day research video cruise to the northern portion
  of Nantucket Lightship Closed area (NLCA). The survey concentrated on both
  high and low density of scallops. A multistage centric systematic survey on two
  spatial scales was compared to a simple random survey with 300 stations. This
  work allows for statistical comparisons between the two survey designs
  including comparisons of densities and size frequencies of sea scallops, other
  macroinvertebrate and sediment compositions; Conduct research on a turtle
  excluder dredge in two phases. In phase 1, design and fabricate a prototype
  scallop dredge frame, field test the frame on commercial trips, and modify the
  design as appropriate. The dredge will consist of two components; (1) a chain
  mat that had previously designed and tested that prevents turtles from entering
  the bag dredge and (2) a new concept for construction of the dredge frame to
  keep turtles from snagging on top of the dredge. The second phase will
  commence when an acceptable design has been achieved and will consist of
  extensive scientific field testing of the dredge. Southeast Region: Development
  of programs to better document fishing effort in the shark fishery, south Atlantic
  snapper-grouper fisheries, and the U.S. Virgin Islands commercial fisheries.
  Development of a Gulf of Mexico shrimp trawl bycatch device testing project.
  Continuation of king mackerel stock research. Cooperative research to study the
  life histories of various reef fish in the Southeast.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
