  For cost principles, see OMB Circular Nos. A-21 (educational institutions), A-    
  87 (State and local governments) or A-122 (nonprofit organizations). For grants   
  management principles, see 15 CFR 24 (States and local governments) and 15        
  CFR 14 for other recipients.                                                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Alaska: Shawn Carey, Alaska Regional Office, NMFS, P.O. Box 12668, Juneau,        
  AK 99802- 1668. Telephone: (907) 586-7845. Use the same numbers for FTS.          
  E-mail: shawn.carey@noaa.gov. Northeast: Harold C. Mears, Director, State,        
  Federal and Constituent Programs Office, National Marine Fisheries Service;       
  Northeast Regional Office, One Blackburn Drive, Gloucester, MA 01930-2298.        
  Telephone: (978) 281-9243. Fax: (978) 281-9117. E-mail:                           
  Grants.Information@noaa.gov. Northwest: Kevin Ford, National Marine               
  Fisheries Service, Northwest Regional Office, 7600 Sand Point Way NE.,            
  Seattle, WA 98115. Telephone: (206)526-6150. Fax: (206) 526-6426. E-mail:         
  Joe.Scordino@noaa.gov. Southeast: Federal Program Officer, State/Federal          
  Liaison Branch, 263 13th Ave. South, St. Petersburg, FL 33701. Telephone:         
  (727)551-5760. Fax: (727) 824-5364. E-mail: Robert.sadler@noaa.gov.               
  Southwest: Patricia Culver, Federal Program Officer, Southwest Region Office,     
  501 West Ocean Blvd., Suite 4200, Long Beach, CA 90802-4213. Telephone:           
  (562) 980-4239. Fax: (562) 980-4047. E-mail: trisha.culver@noaa..gov. Pacific     
  Island: Scott Bloom. Telephone (808) 944-2218. E-mail:                            
  scott.bloom@noaa.gov.                                                             
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  JoAnna Grable, Management and Administration Division,, National Marine           
  Fisheries Service, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910.               
  Telephone: (301) 713-1364. Fax: (301) 713-2258. Email:                            
  joanna.grable@noaa.gov.                                                           
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  Alaska: http://www.fakr.noaa.gov. Southeast:                                      
  http://caldera.sero.nmfs.gov/grants/programs/manage.htm.                          
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.                                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                        
  Alaska: Alaska Coastal Communities Coalition; Support efforts to stabilize and    
  restore fisheries access to Gulf of Alaska Community-based small-boat fleets.     
  Create and activate plans to do run forecasting and restoration of Yukon River    
  salmon. Support program reports on current events in the fisheries arena of the   
  major fishing nations of the Pacific Rim. Northeast: Examining the Effect of the  
  2004 Pulse Fishing Event on the Georges Bank and Closed Area Benthic              
  Community, Development of an Interactive Video Map Detailing the Georges          
  Bank and Mid-Atlantic Benthic Community, 2005 Fishery Independent Survey          
  of Selected Hard Bottom Areas in Southern New England, Continued                  
  Investigation of Marine Biotoxins in the Atlantic Sea Scallop Resource.           
  Southeast: Improved data collection for discards of shark, and south Atlantic     
  snapper-grouper. Cooperative research to better estimate king mackerel stock      
  mixing and abundance. Pilot projects to collect U.S. Virgin Islands reef fish     
  data, test shrimp trawl bycatch devices, and to test reef fish gear in the eastern
  Gulf of Mexico. Improved collection of life history data on hogfish, goliath      
  grouper, and Gulf of Mexico vermilion snapper and red grouper.                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                   
  Proposals are selected from several sources: Unsolicited proposals; special       
  solicitations in the Federal Register, FedBizOppss,or Congressionally mandated    
  projects. Regardless of source, proposals must undergo rigorous technical review  
  and comply with all OMB, DOC, and NOAA grants policies and procedures.            
                                                                                    
                                                                                    
11.455 COOPERATIVE SCIENCE AND EDUCATION                                            
PROGRAM                                                                             
   Cooperative Marine Education and Research Programs (CMER); Joint                 
  Institute for Marine Observation (JIMO); Cooperative Unit of Fisheries            
  Education and Research (CUFER); Cooperative Institute of Fishery                  
                                                                                    
  Oceanography (CIFO); Cooperative Education and Research Program (CERP);

                                                                                    
  Cooperative Institute Agreement (CIA); Cooperative Institute for Marine

                                                                                    
  Resources Studies (CIMRS); Cooperative Institute for Marine and

                                                                                    
  Atmospheric Studies (CIMAS); and Cooperative Institute for Arctic

                                                                                    
  Research (CIFAR); Joint Institute for the Study of the Atmosphere and

                                                                                    
  Oceans (JISAO).

                                                                                    
                                                                                    
FEDERAL AGENCY:

                                                                                    
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,

  NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
                                                                                    
  COMMERCE

                                                                                    
AUTHORIZATION:

                                                                                    
  Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1956, 16 U.S.C. 661; Fish and Wildlife

                                                                                    
  Act, 16 U.S.C. 753(a); Department of Commerce Appropriation Act of 1999.

                                                                                    
OBJECTIVES:

  To support through grants and cooperative agreements, enduring partnerships       
  between the Federal government and institutions of research and higher            
                                                                                    
  education for cooperative science and education on marine issues, especially

                                                                                    
  living marine resources and their habitat, that confront local, regional, and

                                                                               11-08
  national resources managers; also, to award grants and cooperative agreements
  to develop innovative approaches and methods for marine and estuarine science
  and education.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds can be used by recipients to support a wide variety of research and higher
  education projects on high-priority marine and estuarine resource issues,
  especially resources and/or their habitat currently under, or proposed for future
  Federal or interjurisdictional management.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants for assistance are State, U.S. territorial, and private
  institutions of higher learning and education, especially universities and
  colleges, with which the National Marine Fisheries Service or the National
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration has entered into, or may enter into, an
  enduring partnership for purposes of research and education on the marine
  environment. Also included are private and public research organizations
  affiliated with institutions of higher learning, and national and international
  organizations and programs dedicated to marine and estuarine research,
  education, and outreach.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  This program benefits Federal, State, and interstate marine resource conversation
  and management agencies; U.S. and foreign commercial and recreational fishing
  industries; conservation organizations, academic institutions; international and
  Indian Tribal treaties; private and public research groups; consumers; and the
  general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants are required to satisfy all DOC/NOAA standards and regulations,
  including routine and special terms and conditions, for financial assistance
  programs application and conduct.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, " Intergovernment Review of Federal
  Programs". An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are initially evaluated by the appropriate NMFS Science and Research
  Center, and are subject to review for technical merit, soundness of design,
  competency of the applicant to perform the proposed work, potential
  contribution of the project to national or regional research and education goals,
  and appropriateness and reasonableness of proposed costs. Projects approved
  for funding will be submitted to the NOAA Grants Management Division and
  the Department of Commerce's Office of Federal Assistance for review and
  approval.
Deadlines:
  Project applications must be received by the receiving NMFS office at least 120
  days before the requested start date of the project.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval time is expected to range from 90 to 150 days, which includes
  processing of the award through the NMFS and NOAA.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are approved on an annual basis, but may be
  continued beyond the first segment, subject to approved time frame and scope of
  work, satisfactory progress, and availability of funds. Renewal of an award to
  increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the sole discretion of
  the Department.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. NOAA may fund up to 100 percent of
  project costs. Grantees matching contributions are not required, but are
  encouraged.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are normally for a 12 month period but in some instances, award periods
  may extend beyond 12 months or may be completed in less than 12 months.
  Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and expended in
  accordance with DOC/NOAA finance and reporting procedures. Funds are
  released in advance or by reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard Terms
  and Conditions document required for each grant.
Reports:
  Reports are due in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award. The
  Department's financial assistance standard terms and conditions generally
                                                                                   223
