  require that financial and performance reports be submitted semi-annually.          
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit                 
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall     
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act              
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall            
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.           
Records:                                                                              
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant 
  for three (3) years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In   
  cases where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the   
  three-year period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any  
  issues associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention 
  period; whichever is latest.                                                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $6,200,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $33,000 to $1,777,363. Average $136,000.                                            
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Alaska Center: Through support of JISAO work was carried out on an atlas of         
  the occurrence and distribution of eggs and larvae of north Pacific fishes          
  sampled during fisheries oceanography cruises; study of biological and physical     
  factors affecting survival of walleye pollock eggs and larvae in the Gulf of        
  Alaska and their recruitment to the commercially fished population; groundfish      
  stomachs were read to determine the importance of different Bering Sea and          
  Gulf of Alaska prey species; research cruises were conducted to place and           
  recover Atka mackerel tags; and a research cruise was conducted to determine        
  the effects of fishing on the distribution of pollock. Northeast Center:            
  Cooperative programs with universities were supported, primarily for training       
  graduate students: University of Massachusetts, Rutgers University, Virginia        
  Institute of Marie Science and the University of Rhode Island. Northwest            
  Center: Undergraduate and graduate internships; Salmon survival and life-           
  stages research: disease and anthropogenic factors, estuarine influences, ocean     
  ecology, predation, and genetics; Ground fish research: stock assessment and        
  habitat Southeast Center: Coastal fisheries habitat management research.            
  Southwest Center: Grants were awarded to the University of Hawaii and the           
  University of California to support undergraduate and graduate student research,    
  support of educational programs in fisheries research, marine satellite data        
  processing and research vessel support. Cooperative research studies are            
  between NMFS/JIMAR and JIMO. Research on highly migratory fish species in           
  the Atlantic.                                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for          
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for               
  nonprofit and for- profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of      
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial        
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for                 
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial    
  organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.             
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Program contacts: Alaska: Mr. James M. Coe, Deputy Director, Alaska                 
  Fisheries Science Center, 7600 Sand Pt. Way NE., Bldg. 4, Seattle, WA 98115-        
  6349. Telephone: (206) 526-4000. Fax: (206) 526-4004. E-mail:                       
  jim.coe@noaa.gov. Northeast: Dr. Ken Sherman, Chief, Office of Marine

                                                                                      
  Ecosystem Studies, Northeast Fisheries Science Center, 28 Tarzwell Drive,           
  Narragansett, RI, 02882. Telephone: (401) 782-3211. Fax: 401-782-3201. E-           
  mail: Kenneth.Sherman@noaa.gov. Northwest: Dr. Robert Iwamoto, OMI                  
  Director, Northwest Fisheries Science Center, 2725 Montlake Boulevard East,         
  Seattle, WA 98112-2097. Telephone: (206) 860-3200. Fax: (206) 860-3442. E-          
  mail: Bob.Iwamoto@noaa.gov. Southeast: Federal Program Officer,                     
  State/Federal Liaison Branch, 263 13th Ave. South, St. Petersburg, FL 33701,        
  Telephone (727) 824-5324. Fax: (727) 824-5364. Southwest: Dr. Richard Neal,         
  Deputy Science Director, Southwest Fisheries Science Center, 8604 La Jolla

  Shores Drive, La Jolla, CA 92038-1508. Telephone: (858) 546-7066. Fax: (858)

  546-7003. E-mail: Richard.A.Neal@noaa.gov.                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Not applicable.

Web Site Address:                                                                     
  Alaska Center: http://www.afsc.noaa.gov/. Northeast Center: CMER:                   
  http://www.nefsc.nmfs.gov/cmer/. Southwest Center:                                  
  http://swfsc.nmfs.noaa.gov/.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Alaska Center: JISAO at the University of Washington was supported to provide

                                                                                      
  for the study of biological and physical factors affecting the recruitment of       
  walleye pollock in the Gulf of Alaska and Bering Sea to improve our ability to      


224                                                                             11-08

  predict year class recruitment to the commercial fishery; to study the acoustic
  properties of fish of the north Pacific, develop visualization tools to increase the
  understanding of using sound to survey fish populations, investigate equipment
  and methods used to acoustically enumerate, size, and map fish distributions,
  and to foster the training of students and researchers in the use of acoustics to
  assess fish populations; and to provide for the study of food habitats of
  groundfish, the effects of fishing on the distribution of pollock in the Gulf of
  Alaska and the distributional behavior of Atka mackerel. Research at CIFAR
  was conducted on the use of genetic markers to describe the population structure
  of Pacific Ocean Perch and to use genetics to study the possibility of two species
  of rougheye rockfish. Northeast Center: Research to support the management of
  living marine resources. Evaluating the potential effects of habitat alterations
  and determine if benthic fish assemblages and biomass differ at and away from
  sand ridges. Documenting and understanding the behavioral interactions
  between cetaceans and trawl fishing gear in the Western Atlantic. Also, research
  aimed at studying the decline of Atlantic bluefish stocks. Focus on investigating
  the relationship between bluefish and striped bass populations, changes in
  bluefish food stocks, whether the bluefish have declined or migrated elsewhere,
  and other factors which bear upon the status of bluefish and striped bass stocks.
  Continuation of a program which has developed an extensive database on
  Western North Atlantic right whales and other protected marine species. A
  cooperative agreement was established to conduct Atlantic Salmon
  Communication Network Assessment to Focus Education, Outreach and
  Collaboration. A fish habitat study to be carried out by undergraduate students
  applying fishery techniques, water quality monitoring and GIS methodology in
  characterizing selected fish habitats in an urbanized tributary of the Chesapeake
  Bay estuarine system. Southeast Center: Characterizing conditions under which
  fisheries and cetaceans co-occur along the eastern U.S. coast. Funded research to
  verify and improve age determination in endangered marine turtle species.
  Establishing a web-based resource to expand opportunities for under-represented
  groups in the marine and environmental sciences. Northwest Center: Feeding
  and growth of juvenile salmonids off the Oregon and Washington coasts; ocean
  survival of salmonids relative to migrational timing, fish health, predation and
  oceanographic conditions in the Columbia River plume and adjacent coastal
  waters; disease and survival of juvenile salmon in the estuarine and nearshore
  ocean environment; undergraduate and graduate research, groundfish stock
  assessment and habitat research. Southwest Center: JIMO at the University of
  California was supported to provide satellite data processing; research vessel for
  "Egg and larval fish production from marine ecological reserves" cruise; genetic
  population structure of central California coastal Salmonid populations;
  cooperative studies of Pacific Coast salmon; ocean and esturarine physiological
  ecology of salmon. JIMAR at the University of Hawaii was supported to
  provide pelagic fisheries visiting scientists program; tropic ecology and
  structured-associated aggregation behavior in Bigeye and Yellowfin Tuna in
  Hawaii-based commercial longline fishery; distribution, histories,andrecent
  catch trends with six fish taxa taken as inci dental catch by the Hawaii-based
  commercial longline fishery; recreational fisheries meta data preliminary steps;
  development of oceanographic atlases for Pelagic and insular fisheries and
  resource management of the pacific basin; pop-Off satellite archival tags to
  chronicle the survival and movements of blue sharks following release from
  longline gear; developing biochemical and physiological predictors of long term
  survival in released blue shark; survivorship, migration, and diving patterns of
  sea turtles released from commercial longline gear determined with pop-up
  satellite archival transmitters; pelagic fisheries research program management;
  pelagic fisheries research management-modeling and tag design; and Hawaii
  regional tuna tagging project.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are selected following consultation between NMFS fisheries centers
  scientists and universities with established memoranda of understanding or
  agreement, and subject to availability of funds. Proposals may be reviewed by
  coordinating or technical committees, based on joint determination by these
  reviewers and in consideration of the informational needs of the State regional
  and Federal marine resource management agencies, and on peer-review
  comments related to the technical quality of the proposal. All proposals must
  comply with all OMB, DOC, and NOAA grants policies and procedures.
11.457 CHESAPEAKE BAY STUDIES
   (Chesapeake Bay Studies)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956, 16 U.S.C. 753a; 15 U.S.C. 1540; 16 U.S.C. 661-
  666c, Department of Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act of
  2002; NOAA Authorization Act of 1992, Public Law 102-567.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide financial assistance for research and development projects that will
  provide information for the living marine resources of Chesapeake Bay. In
