  addition, assistance is provided for the Chesapeake Bay Watershed Education        
  and Training Initiative (B-WET). The B-WET Program will work with and              
  support organizations that provide environment-based education to students,        
  teachers, and communities throughout the Chesapeake Bay watershed. In              
  addition, assistance is provided for research and restoration of Submerged         
  Aquatic Vegetation (SAV) in the Chesapeake Bay.                                    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds can be used to improve surveys and fisheries statistics, investigate living  
  marine resource linkages with dependent habitats and conduct research in           
  support of fisheries stock assessments in conjunction with cooperative, long-      
  term data collection programs for the Bay's living marine resources. Funding can   
  also be used to support environmental-based education, expand student              
  Chesapeake Bay or stream outdoor experiences, improve opportunities for            
  teachers to receive professional training in the area of environmental education,  
  and promote internship opportunities for students and teachers in the field of     
  environmental education.                                                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants are institutions of higher education, hospitals, other         
  nonprofits, commercial organizations, foreign governments, organizations under     
  the jurisdiction of foreign governments, international organizations, State, local 
  and Indian tribal governments.                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Federal, State and local governments, universities, independent school divisions,  
  nonprofit organizations, and the general public.                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants are required to satisfy all DOC/NOAA standards and regulations,         
  including routine and special terms and conditions, for financial assistance       
  programs applications and conduct.                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental         
  Review of Federal Programs". An applicant should consult the office or official    
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the      
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application            
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to   
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are         
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Proposals are initially evaluated by the NOAA Chesapeake Bay Office, and then      
  are subject to review for technical merit, soundness of design, competency of the  
  applicant to perform the proposed work, potential contribution of the project to   
  national and regional goals, and appropriateness and reasonableness of proposed    
  costs. Projects recommended for funding will be submitted to the NOAA Grants       
  Management Division for Department of Commerce clearance and processing            
  procedures. In additions, funds may be provided on a sole source basis for         
  priority projects for the stewardship of Chesapeake Bay resources.                 
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines are published in the annual Federal Register or contact the NOAA         
  Chesapeake Bay Office.                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 60 to 120 working days.                                                       
Appeals:                                                                             
  No formal appeal procedure. If an application is unacceptable, the reasons are     
  fully stated to the applicant.                                                     
Renewals:                                                                            
  Multi-year awards of up to three years may be approved. Once awarded, multi-       
  year projects will not compete for funding in subsequent years, however            
  proposals may be subject to a technical evaluation. Funding for multi-year         
  projects beyond the first year is contingent upon the availability of program      
  funds in subsequent fiscal years, and the extent to which the recipient meets      
  project objectives and reporting requirements.                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula. Projects are funded at up to 100 percent    
  Federal share. Grantee matching contributions are not required but are             
  encouraged.                                                                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Grants/cooperative awards are normally made for one year. Assistance is            
  released via the NOAA Financial Assistance Disbursement System (FADS).             
  Awards are normally for a 12-month period but in some instances, award periods     
  may extend beyond 12-months, or may be completed in less than 12-months.           
  Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and in accordance         
  with DOC/NOAA finance and reporting procedures. Funds are released in              
  advance or by reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard Terms and                
  Conditions document required for each grant.                                       
Reports:                                                                             


                                                                                11-08
  Semi-annual progress and financial reports are due six months after the start date
  of the award. Progress reports should summarize all work accomplished during
  the six months following the start date of the award and the financial reports
  should reflect the use of funds. A final report is due 90 days after completion of
  the project.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant
  for three years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In cases
  where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the three-year
  period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any issues
  associated with it are complete or until the end of the three- year retention
  period; whichever is latest.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $13,500,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $8,000 to $350,000. Average: $85,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  1) Valuable information has been obtained under this program. All projects are
  State and Federal cooperative efforts to implement and develop fishery stock
  assessment programs in Chesapeake Bay. The following are a few of the
  highlights: Developed a randomized sampling design for the blue crab
  recreational fishery in Chesapeake Bay; Developed and implemented the
  Baywide winter dredge survey for blue crab; Designed and field-tested multiple
  species monitoring program to be conducted on a Baywide scale; Developed a
  multispecies modeling approach for Management of the Coastal fishery for
  Atlantic menhaden; Verified techniques to biochemically measure the age of
  blue crab, and; competed stock assessments for blue crab, oyster, and hard clam.
  Planted 15 acres of eelgrass (SAV) from seed on the Piankatank (VA) and
  Patuxent (MD) rivers 2) Educated more than 35,000 students about the
  Chesapeake Bay watershed and their greater environment. Provided more than
  6,700 teachers with professional development opportunities in the field of
  environmental education. Developed strong partnerships among environmental
  education organizations. Forged partnerships with the Departments of
  Education to integrate information about the Chesapeake Bay and its watershed
  into school curricula.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Fish and Wildlife Act of 1956. Allowable cost will be determined in accordance
  with OMB Circular A-87 for State and local governments and Indian Tribes;
  OMB Circular A-122 for nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular
  A-21 for institutions of higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial
  organizations. Financial assistance management will be in accordance with 15
  CFR Part 14 for institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit
  and commercial organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local
  governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  NOAA Chesapeake Bay Office, 410 Severn Avenue, Suite 107A, Annapolis,
  MD 21403. Contact: Derek Orner, Fishery Biologist or Shannon Sprague,
  Education Coordinator. Telephone: (410) 267-5660. Fax: (410) 267-5666. E-
  mail: Derek.Orner@noaa.gov or Shannon.Sprague@noaa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Not applicable.
Web Site Address:
  http://noaa.chesapeakebay.net/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Developed better methods to collect and plant eelgrass (SAV) seeds; set up
  facilities to increase the availability of seeds and other planting materials for
  planting lower salinity SAV species; conducted site assessments to choose sites
  for future large scale SAV planting projects. Developed better methods to
  collect and plant eelgrass (SAV) seeds; set up facilities to increase the
  availability of seeds and other planting materials for planting lower salinity SAV
  species; conducted site assessments to choose sites for future large scale SAV
  planting projects For the B-WET Program, all projects support the education
  and outreach goals of the Chesapeake 2000 agreement. The following are
  examples of funded projects in fiscal year 2004. School Leadership in Urban
  Runoff Reduction (Living Classrooms Foundation); the Teachers Training
  Institute at Hard Bargain Farm (Alice Ferguson Foundation); Bay Grasses in
  Classes (MD DNR); Chesapeake Connections (Arlington Echo Outdoor School);
  and Chesapeake Classrooms (Chesapeake Bay Foundation).
                                                                                      225
