CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Consideration is given to projects that directly relate to the                      
  interstate/governmental Chesapeake Bay 2000 Agreement. Consideration is             
  measured amongst several criterion including: project description and               
  conceptual approach for resolution; soundness of project design/technical           
  approach; project management and experience and qualification of personnel;         
  justification and allocation of the budget in terms of the work to be performed;    
  demonstration of project partnerships; and continued teacher involvement and        
  communication.                                                                      
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
11.459 WEATHER AND AIR QUALITY RESEARCH                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                    
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Federal Aviation Act, as amended, 49 U.S.C. 1463; Weather Service Organic           
  Act, 15 U.S.C. 313; National Climate Program Act, as amended, 15 U.S.C.             
  2901; Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, 42 U.S.C. 7403.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To develop the knowledge required to establish a predictive capability for short    
  and long-term climate and air quality fluctuations and trends. To develop the       
  base of scientific knowledge for better informed decisions.                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Contracts).                                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grants may be used for research and development, science assessments, advisory      
  services, and operational systems as they relate to specific programs. Specific     
  restrictions, other than those mandated for grants, are evaluated on an individual  
  grant or program basis. Grants and contracts currently exist with National Acid     
  Precipitation Assessment Program (NAPAP) participants.                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Universities, colleges, junior colleges, technical schools, institutions,           
  laboratories; any State, political subdivision of a State or agency or officer      
  thereof; any individual.                                                            
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Organizations and individuals with interests in meteorology, oceanography,          
  climate, and air-quality research and prediction.                                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Proposals with statement of work, estimated budget, and curriculum vitae. Costs     
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-87 for State and          
  local governments, A-21 for educational institutions, and A-122 for nonprofit       
  organizations.                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                            
Application Procedure:

  Submit an electronic application to Grants.gov APPLY for financial assistance       
  (SF 424) with statement of work to be performed and proposed amount. This

  program is subject to the requirements of OMB Circular No. A-110 and 15 CFR         
  24, "Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local Governments," as        
  applicable.                                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Awards are made on the basis of peer review of proposals.                           
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 90 to 180 days from time of proposal receipt.                                  
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  By negotiation with OAR.                                                            
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  No matching funds required.                                                         
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Normally for a period of one year.                                                  
Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly performance and financial reports are required. Final reports are due

                                                                                      
  90 days after expiration of award.

                                                                                      
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June

                                                                                      
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit

                                                                                      
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall

                                                                                      
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act

                                                                                      
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall

                                                                                      
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. In        
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27,        
  2003); Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations;            
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in         
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that    
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal          
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted

226                                                                             11-08

  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Grantees expected to maintain complete records for each grant to insure funds
  are used for the purpose for which the grant was made.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
  (Contracts) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.(NOTE: No funds are currently identified for grants and contracts).
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Funds no longer are available.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  One to three contracts per year are anticipated.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for
  nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial
  organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Office of Weather and Air Quality, Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric
  Research, National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, 1315 East-West
  Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Contact: Office of Weather & Air Quality:
  (301) 713- 9397 or (301) 713-9121.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.noaa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.431, Climate and Atmospheric Research; 11.432, Office of Oceanic and
  Atmospheric Research (OAR) Joint and Cooperative Institutes.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) Numerical weather prediction using global weather experiment data; (2)
  prediction of planetary circulation; (3) implementation of sea level network in
  Indian Ocean; (4) dynamical forecast of El Nino/Southern Oscillation; (5)
  circulation of the SW tropical Pacific Ocean; and (6) analysis of the effects of
  atmospheric deposition of nitrates and sulfates on surface water chemistry.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are subject to office and peer review process taking into consideration
  primarily scientific merit and application to office research goals. Principal
  investigators' qualifications and cost are also considered, with cost subject to
  negotiation.
11.460 SPECIAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC
PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Weather Service and Related Agencies Authorization Act of 1999, as
  amended.
OBJECTIVES:
  As indicated in NOAA special announcements or applicable reports supportive
  of the Department's goal to expand knowledge of and to manage effectively the
  Nation's oceanic and atmospheric resources.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Cooperative agreements and grants may be used for research and development,
  education and training, and advisory services. May be used for operational
  systems as they relate to specific programs. Specific restrictions, other than
  those mandated for grants and cooperative agreements are evaluated on an
  individual program basis.
Applicant Eligibility:
  As stated in NOAA special announcements or applicable reports in support of
  NOAA's mission.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Organizations and individuals with interests in support of managing effectively
  the Nation's oceanic and atmospheric resources.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposals with statements of work and estimated budgets. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with applicable OMB Circulars.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
