  Submit an electronic application to Grants.gov APPLY for financial assistance    
  (SF 424) with statement of work to be performed and proposed amount. This        
  program is subject to the requirements of OMB Circular No. A-110 and 15 CFR      
  Part 24, "Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local                 
  Governments," as applicable.                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Awards will be made on the basis of proposal evaluations, technical reviews,     
  administrative reviews, and external reviews, if applicable.                     
Deadlines:                                                                         
  In accordance with the applicable report or announcement.                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  From 90 to 180 days from the time of proposal submission to NOAA/OAR.

Appeals:

                                                                                   
  None anticipated.                                                                
Renewals:                                                                          
  By negotiation with the OAR and subject to availability of funds.                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  None anticipated.                                                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  In accordance with the applicable NOAA Report or special NOAA                    
  announcement and in accordance with FARB approvals.                              
Reports:                                                                           
  Financial and performance reports will be required quarterly at a minimum.       
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June       
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit              
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall  
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act           
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall         
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. In     
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27,     
  2003); Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations;         
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in      
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that 
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal       
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                           
Records:                                                                           
  Recipients are expected to maintain complete records for each grant and/or       
  cooperative agreement to ensure funds are used for the purpose for which the     
  award was made.                                                                  
Account Identification:                                                            
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  Varies depending upon what funds are appropriated for special projects.          
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  Grants and cooperative agreements are awarded as applicable. For example, the    
  Oceans and Human Health Initiative (OHHI) sponsors competitive, peer-            
  reviewed research to collaborate with and augment NOAA intramural research       
  programs.                                                                        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  NOAA Grants and Cooperative Agreements Policy Manual. Allowable cost             
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for State and local      
  governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for nonprofit and for-         
  profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of higher education;

                                                                                   
  and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial assistance            
  management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for institutions of         
  higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial organizations,  
  and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.                         
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  OAR, Laboratory, or Sea Grant offices, depending upon the particular program.    
  1335 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910.                                 
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Director, OAR, Office of Program, Planning & Evaluation, 1315 East-West          
  Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713- 2465, Ext. 119.          
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.noaa.gov.                                                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  11.405, Anadromous Fish Conservation Act Program; 11.417, Sea Grant

                                                                                   
  Support; 11.420, Coastal Zone Management Estuarine Research Reserves;

                                                                                   
  11.426, Financial Assistance for National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science;

                                                                                   
  11.430, Undersea Research; 11.431, Climate and Atmospheric Research;

                                                                                   
  11.432, Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) Joint and

                                                                                   
  Cooperative Institutes; 11.449, Independent Education and Science Projects and

                                                                                   
  Programs; 11.459, Weather and Air Quality Research.                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Institute for the Study of Earth, Oceans, and Space; STORM; Radiophysics Lab

                                                                                   
  of Dartmouth College; Gulf of Maine Council; Aquatic Ecosystems; Lake

                                                                                   


                                                                              11-08
  Champlain Study; Central California Ozone Study; Ice Physics Research;
  Southeast Atlantic Marine Monitoring and Prediction; Lake Champlain Canal
  Barrier Demonstration; Oceans and Human Health (OHHI); and such Ocean
  Exploration as continuing the Lewis and Clark Legacy and Sound in the Sea:
  Acoustic Monitoring at Pioneer Sea Mount.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are subject to office evaluations, technical reviews, administrative
  reviews, and external reviews, if applicable, taking into consideration primarily
  scientific merit and application to the goals of NOAA and the Office of Oceans
  and Atmospheric Research.
11.462 HYDROLOGIC RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,
  NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Weather Service Organic Act, 15 U.S.C. 313, 1525.
OBJECTIVES:
  To maintain a cooperative university/Federal partnership to conduct joint
  research and development on pressing surface water hydrology issues common
  to National, regional, local operational offices, private consulting hydrologists,
  and academics.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds can be used to support research and development on issues related to the
  forecasting of surface hydrologic conditions. Specific restrictions, other than
  those mandated for grants, are evaluated on an individual grant or program
  basis.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants are Federally recognized institutions of higher learning,
  agencies of State or local governments, quasi-public institutions such as water
  supply or power companies, hydrologic consultants and companies involved in
  using and developing hydrologic forecasts (either for reducing flood damages or
  for water management decisions).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Since the benefits of the overall program are for a reduction in loss of life and
  damage resulting from flooding and drought, and improved utilization of water
  supply and water dependent industries, benefits accrue from these projects to:
  (1) Federal agencies responsible to forecast, assess, manage, disperse, project
  economic conditions based on projections of water supply for agriculture and
  industry, and control water resources; (2) interstate commissions to control and
  allocate surface waters; (3) State agencies responsible for allocating and
  controlling water resources and for making projections for the use of water for
  industry and agriculture and for planning and developing infrastructure within
  the State that is impacted by rivers and lakes; (4) local agencies dependent on
  water for economic planning, emergency preparedness, and public water supply;
  (5) all businesses and industries depending all or in part upon surface water
  supplies or adequate water in lakes for recreation, in rivers to generate power, or
  in production or dispersion of products or who must take action in order to
  ameliorate damage during flood situations, (6) wildlife interests at all levels that
  are dependent upon water management for managing the environment; (7)
  homeowners or farmers who must plan for proper responses to flooding or
  inadequate water supply; and (8) academic institutions which are funded for
  programs dealing with the studies of hydrologic science.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proposals with statement of work, estimated budget, and curriculum vitae. Costs
  will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-87 for State and
  local governments, A-21 for educational institutions and A-122 for nonprofit
  and for-profit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals, including a statement of work and budget, are submitted to Chief of
  the Training Division of OCWWS. When details of the work and budget are
  mutually agreed upon, the complete proposal will be prepared and formally
  submitted. Complete grant or cooperative agreement proposals will include
  forms SF-424 Application for Federal Assistance, SF-424A, Budget Information
  Non-Construction Programs, statement of work, budget and supporting details,
  negotiated indirect cost rate sheet, and CD-511 Certifications Regarding
  Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters, Drug Free Workplace
  Requirements, and Lobbying statements. Cooperative activities and funding
  amounts are determined through an evaluation conducted in coordination with
  the Director of OCWWS, and staff.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made on the basis of proposal evaluations and technical and
  administrative reviews. Proposal will be submitted to the NOAA Grants
  Management Division for review and approval. Cooperative activities and
  funding amounts are determined through an evaluation conducted in
                                                                                      227
