  coordination with the Director of the Office of Hydrologic Development by the        
  Chief of the Hydrology Laboratory, and the technical experts of the Laboratory.      
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Application deadlines are established by notices appearing on OHD/HL website.        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Approval time is expected to range from 90 to 180 days, which includes               
  processing of the award through the NWS and NOAA financial assistance                
  functions.

Appeals:

  None.

                                                                                       
Renewals:                                                                              
  By negotiations with the Office of Hydrologic Development. Cooperative               
  activities are normally continuing subject to the availability of funding for        
  subsequent budget periods. Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend         
  the period of performance is at the sole discretion of the Department.               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no matching requirements. NOAA may fund up to 100 percent           
  of project costs.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  Awards are usually for a 12-month period. In some instances, award periods may       
  extend beyond 12-months. The funding is spent in the award's budget period           
  unless an extension is requested by the principal investigator and approved by       
  NOAA Grants Office. Since many cooperative projects with universities depend         
  upon student labor there are times when unfunded extensions are required.            
Reports:                                                                               
  Reports are due in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award. The        
  Department's Financial Assistance Standard Terms and Conditions generally            
  require that financial and performance reports be submitted quarterly or             
  semiannually.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit                  
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall      
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act               
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall             
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. In         
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27,         
  2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations;             
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in          
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal           
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted      
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                               
Records:                                                                               
  Records will be retained in accordance with provisions of OMB Circular No. A-        
  110 for institutions of higher education, other nonprofit organizations, and         
  commercial organizations and in accordance with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and         
  local governments.                                                                   
Account Identification:                                                                
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $5,000 to $100,000. Average: $25,000.                                                
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  This program has developed an improved method for automatic calibration of           
  hydrologic models to river basins, made definite progress in the development of      
  distributed rainfall/runoff models, demonstrated improved flash flood models for     
  urbanizing environments.                                                             
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for           
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for                
  nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of        
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial         
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for                  
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial     
  organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.              
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  None.                                                                                
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  Chief, Hydrology Laboratory, National Weather Service - W/OHD-1, 1325                
  East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-0640.               
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.noaa.gov.                                                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  (1) Project to further automate the calibration of hydrologic models; (2)            
  development of procedure to enhance flash flood guidance; (3) development and        
  testing of distributed rainfall/runoff models using radar-derived rainfall data; (4) 


228                                                                              11-08

  demonstration project to show practical benefits from extended streamflow
  predictions in a probabilistic framework; and (5) investigations of flash flood
  models in arid climates.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are subject to office and peer review process taking into consideration
  scientific merit, application to office research goals, principal investigator's
  qualifications, cost, and available funding.
11.463 HABITAT CONSERVATION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1956, 16 U.S.C. 661; 16 U.S.C. 6401 et
  seq.; 16 U.S.C. 3951 et seq.; Public Law 100-220, Title II, Section 2204, 33
  U.S.C. 1901 et. seq.; Department of Commerce Appropriation Act of 1999; and
  Coral Reef Conservation Act, 16 U.S.C. 6401 et seq.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants and cooperative agreements for biological, economic,
  sociological, public policy, and other research, administration, and public
  education projects on the coastal environment to benefit U.S. fisheries, conserve
  protected resources, and add to the economic and social well being of the
  Nation. Projects are funded to carry out public policy pertaining to protection
  and restoration of the Nation's wetlands and other coastal habitats, pursuant to
  the Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act, Magnuson Fishery Conservation and
  Management Act, Endangered Species Act, Estuary Restoration Act, Marine
  Mammal Protection Act, Marine Plastic Pollution Research and Control Act of
  1987, Coastal Wetlands Planning Protection and Research Act (CWPPRA),
  Coral Reef Conservation Act and other legislation. Research and management
  includes determining the effects of habitat modifications and contaminants on
  populations of living marine resources, restoring depleted stocks that have been
  adversely impacted by habitat modifications, determining if artificial or restored
  habitat fulfills essential habitat needs of living marine resources, and quantifying
  contaminants and debris that pose a hazard to populations of these animals.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds can be used by recipients to support a wide variety of research, habitat
  restoration, coral reef conservation, construction, management, and public
  education activities for marine and estuarine habitats, especially for species
  currently under, or proposed for, future Federal or Inter-jurisdictional
  management. Habitat restoration includes providing fish passage, dam and
  barrier removals, marine debris prevention and removal, wetland and riparian
  restoration, and similar activities that restore habitat for diadromous fish,
  shellfish and other marine resources in coastal watersheds.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants for assistance include State and local governments, including
  their universities and colleges; U.S. territorial agencies; federally and State-
  recognized Indian Tribal governments; private universities and colleges; private
  profit and nonprofit research and conservation organizations, and/or individuals.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  This program benefits Federal, State, and interstate marine resource conservation
  and management agencies; U.S. Territories and Freely Associated States; U.S.
  and foreign commercial and recreational fishing industries; conservation
  organizations, academic institutions; international and Indian Tribal treaties;
  private and public research groups; consumers; and the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants are required to satisfy all DOC/NOAA standards and regulations,
  including routine and special terms and conditions, for financial assistance
  programs application and conduct.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the Office of Habitat Conservation, or NOAA Coral Conservation Program lead,
  as appropriate. Proposals are subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and
  24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are initially evaluated by the appropriate NMFS
  Office/Region/Science Center, or their component laboratories, and are subject
  to review for technical merit, soundness of design, competency of the applicant
  to perform the proposed work, potential contribution of the project to national or
  regional goals, and appropriateness and reasonableness of proposed costs.
