  Projects approved for funding will be submitted to the NOAA Grants                    
  Management Division and the Department of Commerce's Office of Federal                
  Assistance for review and approval.                                                   
Deadlines:                                                                              
  Project applications must be received by the receiving NMFS office at least 90        
  days before the requested start date of the project.                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Approval time is expected to range from 150-180 days, which includes                  
  processing of the award through NMFS and NOAA.                                        
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  Grants and cooperative agreements are approved on an annual basis, but may be         
  continued beyond the first segment, subject to approved time frame and scope of       
  work, satisfactory progress, and availability of funds. Renewal of an award to        
  increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the sole discretion of     
  the Department.                                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This program has no statutory formula. Project costs are funded at up to 100          
  percent. Grantee matching contributions vary by specific funding opportunity.         
  Coastal Wetland Planning, Protection and Restoration Act projects require a 15        
  percent match by the State of Louisiana at this time. Under the Community-            
  based Restoration Program guidelines, projects are encouraged to demonstrate a        
  minimum nonfederal match of 50 percent of the total cost needed to complete           
  the proposed project. A 1:1 match is required for the General and International       
  Coral Reef Conservation Grant Programs.                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Awards are normally for 12-24 month periods, and vary by specific funding             
  opportunity. Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and             
  expended in accordance with DOC/NOAA finance and reporting procedures.                
  Funds are released as needed through the automated treasury process (ASAP) or         
  by reimbursement, as indicated in the Standard Terms and Conditions document          
  required for each grant.                                                              
Reports:                                                                                
  Reports are due in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award. The         
  Department's Financial Assistance Standard Terms and Conditions may require           
  that financial and performance reports be submitted semi-annually or on some          
  other agreed upon schedule.                                                           
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June            
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit                   
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall       
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act                
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall              
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.             
Records:                                                                                
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant   
  for three years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In cases   
  where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the three-year
  period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any issues        
  associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention period;  
  whichever is latest.                                                                  
Account Identification:                                                                 
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  (Grants and Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $32,500,000; FY 08 est not                  
  available; and FY 09 est not reported.

Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

  $15,000 to $10,000,000. Typical award: $35,000 to $200,000; CWPPRA

                                                                                        
  awards among the largest, typically in the millions.                                  
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  In fiscal year 2005, cooperative agreements for wetland restoration projects in

  Louisiana under the CWPPRA program resulted in funding construction for the           
  Little Lake Shoreline Protection/Dedicated Dredging near Round Lake                   
  Restoration Project and funding engineering and design for the Riverine Sand          
  Mining/Scofield Island Restoration Project. Under the NOAA Community-based            
  Restoration Program (CRP), 18 applications were recommended for funding in            
  FY05 ranging from $20,000 to $211,507 for a total of $1.72 million, and nearly        
  $8M went to the continued support of 12 national and regional habitat                 
  restoration partnerships (funded between $125K and $1.7M) that provide sub-           
  awards for individual habitat restoration projects. These projects leverage           
  between $3 and $5 for every NOAA dollar invested, have significant community          
  support and hands-on participation, and typically have an associated outreach or      
  informal education component. NOAA's Coral Reef Conservation Grant                    
  Program launched a new international coral reef program in 2002, pursuant to          
  the Coral Reef Conservation Act of 2000. During Fiscal Year 2005, the                 
  International Coral Reef Conservation Grant Program invested $400,000 in 11           
  projects in 12 countries that leveraged $435,109 in matching funds. Funds were        
  distributed among the following four themes: 1) Demonstrate best management           
  practices to reduce and control run-off to near shore coral reef ecosystems in the    


                                                                                   11-08
  Caribbean; 2) Implement management effectiveness programs to enhance
  adaptive management of marine protected areas; 3) Promote use of
  socioeconomic assessments in coastal management; and 4) Regional approaches
  to promote marine reserves in the Caribbean and Southeast Asia.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21 for
  institutions of higher education, with OMB Circular No. A-87 for State and local
  governments, and with OMB Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit organizations.
  For grants management priniciples, see 15 CFR 24 (State and local
  governments) and 15 CFR 14 for other recipients.
Regional or Local Office:
  See Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  CWPPRA: Dr. Erik Zobrist; Community-based Restoration Program (CRP): Ms.
  Robin Bruckner, Program Manager. Office of Habitat Conservation, 1315 East
  West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-0174. Fax:
  (301) 713-0184. E-mail: Erik.Zobrist@noaa.gov; Robin.Bruckner@noaa.gov.
  General Coral Reef Conservation Grant Program: Andy Bruckner, Program
  Manager. Office of Habitat Conservation, FHC1, 1315 East West Highway,
  Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-3459. Fax: (301) 713-1594. E-
  mail: Andy.Bruckner@noaa.gov . International Coral Reef Conservation Grant
  Program: Arthur Paterson, 1315 East West Highway, 5th Floor, Room 5627,
  Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-3078; E-mail:
  Arthur.E.Paterson@noaa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nmfs.noaa.gov/habitat/ecosystem/index.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  NOAA Fisheries Headquarters: Wetland restoration projects in CWPPRA
  program are utilized for protecting and restoring eroding coastal marshes. The
  Community-based Restoration Program (CRP) provides funding to implement a
  wide variety of on-the-ground habitat restoration projects to benefit marine,
  estaurine and reparian habitats, including but not limited to salt marshes,
  seagrass beds, coral reefs, mangrove forests, and freshwater habitat important to
  diadromous fisheries, predominantly in coastal areas around the United States.
  The Office of Habitat Conservation also provides funding for coral reef
  conservation activities. Coral Reef: Nguna-Pele Marine Protected Area
  Community Management and Assessment Enhancement Project. Enhancing
  Management Effectiveness of MPAs: Regional Capacity Building in Indonesia
  and the Philippines, Assessment and Management of Black Grouper Spawning
  Aggregations in Belize essential fish habitat mapping and assessment, coral reef
  trade, sustainable use and management of the live reef fishes, watershed
  management, socioeconomic monitoring, and community-based management
  and conservation. Others: Bonneau Ferry, SC and other West Cooper River
  Corridor land protection, Great Bay NERR Construction and Development, Port
  Aransas Nature Preserve, Wetlands Protection land acquisition, and Village
  Point Park Preserve land acquisition.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are selected from several sources: Unsolicited proposals; special
  solicitations in the Federal Register or Commerce Business Daily; or
  Congressionally mandated projects. Regardless of source, proposals must
  undergo rigorous technical review and comply with all OMB, DOC, and NOAA
  grants policies and procedures. Any financial assistance announcements must
  be made in the Federal Register; announcements in the Commerce Business
  Daily only is not sufficient.
11.467 METEOROLOGIC AND HYDROLOGIC
MODERNIZATION DEVELOPMENT
   (Hydrometeorological Development)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,
  NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Weather Service Organic Act, 15 U.S.C. 313, 1525.
OBJECTIVES:
  To maintain a cooperative university and Federal partnership to conduct
  meteorological training, education, professional development, and research and
  development on hydrometeorological issues common to the hydrometeorological
  community.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants; Direct Payments with Unrestricted Use; Dissemination of
  Technical Information; Training.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds can be used to support education, training, research and development on
  subjects, especially those relating to modernization of the weather services,
  related to the atmospheric, near surface (first ten meters) oceanographic, and
  hydrologic conditions. Specific restrictions, other than those mandated for
                                                                                  229
