  cooperative agreements, are evaluated on an individual basis.                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants are accredited Federally recognized institutions of higher     
  learning, consortia of these institutions, agencies of State or local governments  
  including school systems, quasi-public institutions, consultants, and companies    
  involved in using and developing meteorological or hydrologic forecasts or         
  forecast methodology.                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  The benefits of the overall program are for reduction in loss of life and damage   
  which the general public can realize from improvement in weather forecasts,        
  watches, and warnings of hazardous weather and resultant flooding. For the         
  improvements from the modernization of the Nation's weather and hydrologic         
  services to be realized, there must be significant involvement of the entire       
  hydrometeorological community. Thus, benefits will accrue to: (1) General          
  public through higher quality weather products and information; (2) State and      
  local agencies responsible for the planning and implementation of emergency        
  services, fire prevention, allocation and control of water resources, and those    
  agencies who project economic conditions based on weather and water resource       
  availability; (3) educational institutions (0-13+) which need to incorporate the   
  information which will result from modernization of the weather services into      
  their curricula; (4) scientists and developers who will be using the new           
  information to enhance the State of the knowledge of the atmosphere and            
  improve present system safety and reliability; and academic institutions which     
  are funded for programs dealing with studies of the atmospheric and hydrologic     
  science.                                                                           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Proposals with statement of work, estimated budget, curriculum vitae, and          
  statements of appropriate and/or necessary accreditation. Costs will be            
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-87 for State and local           
  governments, A-21 for educational institutions and A-122 for nonprofit and for-    
  profit organizations.                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Preapplication coordination between the proposer and the Office of Climate,        
  Water and Weather Services (OCWWS) is recommended. Consultation in the             
  preparation of forms is available from OCWWS. This program is eligible for         
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."         
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point  
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State       
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the  
  program for review.                                                                
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Proposals, including a statement of work and budget, are submitted to Chief of     
  the Training Division of OCWWS. When details of the work and budget are            
  mutually agreed upon, the complete proposal will be prepared and formally          
  submitted. Complete grant or cooperative agreement proposals will include          
  forms SF-424 Application for Federal Assistance, SF-424A, Budget Information       
  Non-Construction Programs, statement of work, budget and supporting details,       
  negotiated indirect cost rate sheet, and CD-511 Certifications Regarding           
  Debarment, Suspension and Other Responsibility Matters, Drug Free Workplace        
  Requirements, and Lobbying statements. Cooperative activities and funding          
  amounts are determined through an evaluation conducted in coordination with        
  the Director of OCWWS, and staff.                                                  
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Awards are made on the basis of proposal evaluations as well as technical and      
  administrative reviews.                                                            
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approval time for grants is expected to range from 90 to 180 days, which           
  includes processing of the award through the NWS, NOAA, and DOC financial          
  assistance functions.                                                              
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  By negotiations with OCWWS. Cooperative agreement activities are normally          
  continuing subject to the availability of funding for subsequent budget periods.   
  Renewal of an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is

  at the total discretion of the Agency.                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no specific matching requirements. Projects are accepted at up    
  to 100 percent Federal share.                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Awards are usually for a 12-month period. In some instances, award periods         
  may extend beyond 12 months. The funding is spent in the award's budget            
  period unless an extension is requested by the principal investigator and          
                                                                                     
  approved by NOAA Grants Office. The recipient receives the funds through the

                                                                                     
  financial assistance disbursement system (FADS).

                                                                                     
Reports:

  Reports are due in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award. The      
  Department's financial assistance standard terms and conditions generally          


230                                                                            11-08

  require that financial and performance reports be submitted quarterly.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. In
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 24,
  1997), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All financial and programming records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of grantees or subgrantees are required to be
  maintained by the terms of the agreement. The grantee must retain records for 3
  years from the date when the final expenditure report is submitted.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $4,983,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $15,000 to $4,000,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The Cooperative Program for Operational Meteorology, Education, and Training
  (COMET) has performed in a manner which has met all expectations. COMET
  consists of two programs: the Education and Training Program, and the
  Outreach Program. Experts from the entire academia community cooperate in
  the operational aspects of meteorology and hydrology which leads to the most
  current education and training. The Outreach Program seeks to make
  partnerships with Federal operational meteorologists and research scientists.
  During fiscal year 2002, this program sponsored a total of 15 projects with an
  average level of funding of approximately $35,000 per year for collaborative
  efforts and a total of 12 smaller projects with an average level of funding of
  $8,500. Proposals were treated in the standard peer review process. COMET
  produces cost-effective Web- Based modules and has produced four modules
  within the last year which are available freely on the web at
  http://meted.ucar.edu/.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for
  nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial
  organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Training Division, National Weather Service/OS6, 1325 East West
  Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910 Telephone: (301) 713-0280; Fax: (301)713-
  1598.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.noaa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  The COMET, AMS and UVA are the only projects which are presently funded
  under this program.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are subject to office and peer review process taking into consideration
  scientific merit, application to office research goals, principal investigator's
  qualifications, cost, and available funding.
11.468 APPLIED METEOROLOGICAL RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,
  NATIONAL WEATHER SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  49 U.S.C. 44720.
OBJECTIVES:
  Through the Collaborative Science, Technology, and Applied Research
  (CSTAR) program, the NWS provides funding to the university community for
  highly collaborative applied research activities. The CSTAR program creates a
  cost-effective transition from basic and applied research to operations and
  services. This service-science linkage provides a foundation for the ongoing
