  infusion of science and technology into NWS operations.                          
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                               
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                         
  The funds are used by recipients to implement programs described in proposals    
  submitted and selected in response to calls for proposals from the CSTAR         
  Program Office. The CSTAR Program Office may support non-competitive             
  awards in case specific instances or by direction from legislative language.     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                             
  College and universities in the United States.                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Colleges and universities with interests in atmospheric and related sciences.    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                         
  Proposals will be considered if applicants meet the qualifications listed in     
  solicitations.                                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  No preapplication coordination is required. However, since proposals must        
  demonstrate high levels of collaboration with operational NWS components, it is  
  recommended that applicants discuss potential interactions with relevant NWS     
  operational personnel prior to submission. Consultation and assistance is        
  available through the NWS program manager. This program is excluded from         
  coverage under E.O. 12372.                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                             
  Standard Form 424 series, certification, and other related forms must accompany  
  formal proposals. Detailed instructions are contained in solicitations. Proposals
  will be submitted through the CSTAR program manager to the NOAA Grants           
  Management Division for review and approval. The Department of Commerce          
  will review all projects before an award is executed by the NOAA Grants          
  Officer.                                                                         
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Awards are selected by the NWS Office of Science and Technology and are          
  made on the basis of proposal evaluations and technical and administrative       
  reviews.

Deadlines:

  Deadlines are announced within solicitations published in the Federal Register.

                                                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  Approval time is expected to be about four months, which includes processing     
  the award through NWS, NOAA, and DOC financial assistance functions.             
Appeals:                                                                           
  None.                                                                            
Renewals:                                                                          
  Awards are normally issued on an annual basis.                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  This program has no matching requirements, however, each university normally     
  contributes funding to further support the projects.                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  Awards are for a 12-36 month period, although only one year is funded at a time.

                                                                                   
   Outyears are funded based on availability of funds and adequate progress.

                                                                                   
  Funds are disbursed through the NOAA Accounting Services.                        
Reports:                                                                           
  Semiannual technical and financial progress reports are due within 30 days of    
  the end of the evaluation period. Final reports are due within 90 days of the    
  expiration of the award.                                                         
Audits:                                                                            
  Audits will be conducted in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-133 for           
  universities and nonprofit organizations. In accordance with the provisions of   
  OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of States, Local        
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, nonfederal entities that expend        
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal Awards will have a single or 
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that       
  expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal       
  audit requirements for the year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.          
Records:                                                                           
  Financial records and supporting documents and all other records, i.e., property,
  performance work products, etc., pertinent to the agreement shall be maintained  
  in accordance with the provisions of 15 CFR 14.53 as applicable.                 
Account Identification:                                                            
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                 
Obligations:

                                                                                   
  FY 07 $1,544,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:

                                                                                   
  $100,000 to $3,700,000. Average: $460,285.

                                                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

  Projects awarded through the CSTAR program are leading to a deeper               
                                                                                   
  understanding of meteorological factors involved in the NWS warning and

                                                                                   
  forecasting programs, which, in turn, will benefit the U.S. public with more

                                                                                   
  responsive warning and forecast programs. Specifically, regional and local

                                                                                   
  lightning climatologies are being developed and distributed to NWS forecast

                                                                                   
  offices for use in anticipating thunderstorm development; improvements to

                                                                                   
  operational hurricane prediction models are being implemented; algorithms for

                                                                                   
  better detection and estimation of precipitation amounts in the complex terrain

                                                                              11-08
  of the western U.S. are being developed; and new techniques for forecasting and
  warning extreme winter weather events are being developed.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for
  nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial
  organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  N/A.
Headquarters Office:
  CSTAR Program Manager, National Weather Service, 1325 East-West
  Highway, SSMC2, Room 15326, Mailcode W/OST12, Silver Spring, MD
  20910. Telephone: (301) 713-557 x150.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.noaa.nws.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.467, Meteorologic and Hydrologic Modernization Development.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Awards are related to topics of regional and national importance such as
  developing an operational system for probabilistic quantitative precipitation
  forecasts in the U.S., improving the prediction of warm- and cool-season heavy
  precipitation events over the Northeastern U.S., improving forecasts of
  topographically-forced weather systems in the Carolinas and Virginia, and
  improving operational radar algorithms in the Inter-mountain West.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Selection criteria are announced within solicitations published in the Federal
  Register. Examples of criteria used in past solicitations included operational
  applicability, scientific merit, technology transfer and methodology, capability
  of researchers, and cost effectiveness.
11.469 CONGRESSIONALLY IDENTIFIED AWARDS AND
PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Departments of Commerce, Justice, State, the Judiciary, and Related Agencies
  Appropriations Act.
OBJECTIVES:
  The objectives of the overall program are to facilitate education, research and
  development in the fields of marine and atmospheric science, and to provide a
  provision of assistance for the construction of suitable facilities for these
  activities, as specified by Congress.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To provide appropriated funds to facilitate education, research and development
  in the fields of marine and atmospheric science. Appropriated funds can also be
  used for construction of facilities and construction-related activities to support
  education, research and development associated with issues of atmospheric or
  marine sciences. Specific restrictions, other than those mandated for grants, are
  evaluated on an individual grant or program basis.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants include State and local governments, including their
  universities and colleges, quasi-governmental agencies, private universities and
  colleges, and private profit and nonprofit organizations and/or individuals.
  Typically those specifically identified by Congress in agency appropriations
  legislation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Through the awarding of financial assistance to facilitate education, research
  and development in the fields of marine and atmospheric science, and for the
  construction of educational, research and development facilities, this program
  benefits Federal, State, local governments, public and private universities and
  colleges, profit and nonprofit organizations, and the general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants are required to satisfy all DOC/NOAA standards and regulations,
  including routine and special terms and conditions, for financial assistance
  programs.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms are furnished by the agency. Executive Order
  12372 does not apply to this program. An environmental analysis is required for
  each project funded under this program under the provisions of the National
  Environmental Policy Act, 40 CFR 1500. As a result of this analysis, an
  Environmental Assessment and/or Environmental Impact Statement also may be
  required. Applicants should contact the agency for further NEPA guidance.
Application Procedure:
                                                                                   231
