  Submission of an application on Standard Form 424 as furnished by NOAA,            
  including all required certifications, to the Program Officer, Congressionally     
  Identified Awards, Office of Finance and Administration, Acquisitions and          
  Grants Office. This program is subject to the provisions of 15 CFR 24, Uniform     
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State         
  and Local Governments, and 15 CFR 14, Grants and Agreements with                   
  Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and other Nonprofit Organizations.    
  NOAA reserves the right to withhold the awarding of a grant or cooperative         
  agreement to any individual or organization delinquent on a debt to the Federal    
  government until payment is made or satisfactory arrangements are made with        
  the agency to which the debt is owed.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Applications reviewed by NOAA and are made on the basis of proposal                
  evaluations and technical and administrative reviews.                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Time frame to submit application according to Federal Register announcement        
  (if applicable), or as indicated in specific application cover letter furnished to 
  applicants but in either case no later than May 31, to ensure processing during    
  the fiscal year that funds are appropriated.                                       
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approval time is expected to range from 90 to 180 days from the time of receipt

  of a complete application. This timeframe includes processing of the award         
  through the NOAA and DOC financial assistance functions.

Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Contingent upon future Congressional funding. Renewal of an award to increase      
  funding or extend the period of performance is at the sole discretion of the       
  Department of Commerce/NOAA.                                                       
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no matching requirements. Projects are accepted at up to 100      
  percent Federal share.                                                             
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Awards are usually for a 12-month period. In some instances, award periods         
  may extend beyond 12 months. The funding is spent in the award's budget            
  period unless otherwise negotiated between the recipient and NOAA and              
  approved by the NOAA Grants Management Division.                                   
Reports:                                                                             
  Reports are due in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award. The      
  Department's Financial Assistance Standard Terms and Conditions generally          
  require that financial and performance reports be submitted semi-annually or as    
  otherwise required under special award conditions. Progress reports summarize      
  work accomplished, relate the progress to the original approved proposal and       
  timelines, explain situations where expected work has not been completed, and      
  request modifications to the project plan as necessary.                            
                                                                                     
Audits:

  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit                
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall    
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act             
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall           
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. In       
  accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27,       
  2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,          
  "nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal Awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that   
                                                                                     
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal

                                                                                     
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted

                                                                                     
  in Circular No. A-133.

                                                                                     
Records:

                                                                                     
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical

                                                                                     
  reports, and other records of grantees or sub-grantees are required to be

                                                                                     
  maintained in accordance with the terms of the award. The recipient must retain

                                                                                     
  records for three years from the date when the final financial status report is

                                                                                     
  submitted.

                                                                                     
Account Identification:

  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                   
                                                                                     
Obligations:

  (Grants) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Historically awards have ranged from $140,000 to $28,500,000.                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  NOAA grant recipients receiving funding have developed projects fostering a        
  wide range of public benefits in the fields of marine and atmospheric science as   
  specified by Congress in Appropriations Acts.                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Congressional appropriations, Public Law (for FY 1998, Public Law 105-119,         
  Nov. 13, 1997; for FY 1999, Public Law 105-277, Oct. 19, 1998). Costs will be      
  determined in accordance with OMB Circular No.A-21 for institutions of higher      
  education, OMB Circular No.A-87 for State and local governments, and OMB           


232                                                                            11-08

  Circular No.A-122 for nonprofit organizations. Grants management will be in
  accordance with provisions of 15 CFR Part 14 for institutions of higher
  education and other nonprofit organizations or 15 CFR 24 for State and local
  governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Chief, Grants Management Division, OFA62, SSMC2, 1325 East-West
  Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-0926.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.noaa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Bronx Zoo Construction Project. Land Acquisition in Maine, Various
  Environmental Literacy project such as, Science on the Sphere Projects with
  Bishop Museum, National Maritime Museum, National Model Earth, National
  Ocean Science Bowl, and PRIDE Environmental Enhancement Initiative.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
11.472 UNALLIED SCIENCE PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC AGENCY, NATIONAL
  MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Fish and Wildlife Coordination Act of 1956, 16 U.S.C. 661; Fish and Wildlife
  Act, 16 U.S.C. 753a.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide grants and cooperative agreements of biological, socio-economic and
  physical science research on the stocks of fishery and protected resources of the
  United States and their environment that will contribute to their optimal
  management for the benefit of the Nation; also, to award grants and cooperative
  agreements to develop innovative approaches and methods for marine and
  estuarine science.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds can be used by recipients to support a wide variety of research on high-
  priority marine and estuarine resource issues, especially for resources and/or
  their habitat currently under, or proposed for future Federal or interjurisdictional
  management.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible applicants for assistance include: State and local governments,
  including their universities and colleges; U.S. territorial agencies; federally and
  State-recognized Indian Tribal governments; private universities and colleges;
  private profit and nonprofit research and conservation organizations and/or
  individuals.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  This program benefits Federal, State and interstate marine resource conservation
  and management agencies; U.S. and foreign commercial and recreational fishing
  industries; conservation organizations, academic institutions; international and
  Indian Tribal treaties; private and public research groups; consumers; and the
  general public.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants are required to satisfy all DOC/NOAA standards and regulations,
  including routine and special terms and conditions, for financial assistance
  programs applications and conduct.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.
Award Procedure:
  Proposals are initially evaluated by the pertinent NMFS Office/Region/Science
  Center, and are subject to review for technical merit, soundness of design,
  competency of the applicant to perform the proposed work, potential
  contribution of the project to national or regional goals, and appropriateness and
  reasonableness of proposed costs. Projects approved for funding will be
  submitted to the NOAA Grants Management Division and the Department of
  Commerce's Office of Federal Assistance for review and approval.
