Deadlines:                                                                              
  Project applications must be received by the receiving NMFS office at least 120       
  days before the requested start date of the project.                                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                     
  Approval time is expected to range from 90 to 150 days, which includes                
  processing of the award through the NMFS, NOAA, and DOC financial                     
  assistance procedures.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                                
  None.                                                                                 
Renewals:                                                                               
  Renewal of an award to increase funding and/or extend the period of an award is       
  at the sole discretion of the Department.                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                      
  This program has no statutory formula. Projects are funded at up to 100 percent       
  of the Federal share. Grantee matching contributions are not required, but are        
  encouraged.                                                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                  
  Awards are normally for a 12-month period but in some instances, award periods        
  may extend beyond 12 months, or may be completed in less than 12 months.              
  Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and in accordance            
  with DOC/NOAA finance and reporting procedures. Funds are released in                 
  advance or by reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard Terms and                   
  Conditions document required for each grant.                                          
Reports:                                                                                
  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the                
  Financial Assistance Award. Progress reports summarize work accomplished              
  and explain situations where expected work has not been completed. Financial          
  reports indicate use of funds on a semi-annual schedule.                              
Audits:                                                                                 
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June            
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit                   
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall       
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act                
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall              
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.             
Records:                                                                                
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant   
  for three years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In cases   
  where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the three-year
  period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any issues        
  associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention period;  
  whichever is latest.                                                                  
Account Identification:                                                                 
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                      
Obligations:                                                                            
  FY 07 $34,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                              
  $25,000 to $2,455,000. Average: $546,000.                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                                
  Alaska Region: Carry out marine research activities in the North Pacific, Bering      
  Sea, and Arctic Ocean. Northeast Region: Contributions to enhance data                
  collection for the American lobster resource along the coasts of Maine, New           
  Hampshire and Massachusetts, and to provide improved information for stock            
  assessments and management; and an ocean haul seine survey for striped bass in        
  coastal New York State was conducted. Southeast Region: Development of                
  genetic tools to assess the population structures of major commercial and             
  recreational species, such as swordfish, tunas and sharks. Conservation and           
  management of threatened and endangered marine species in Georgia, South              
  Carolina, and North Carolina including development of an early warning system         
  to reduce right whale/vessel collisions; U.S. Gulf of Mexico marine stock             
  enhancement program; Contributions to the biology of the red drum in South            
  Carolina; funded research to examine the biological and hydrographic                  
  characteristics of the Charleston Bump; provided support for research into            
  pathogens affecting shrimp in the southeastern United States; developed an            
  index of sea turtle abundance along the southern U.S. Atlantic coast. NOS: The        
  goal of FISHTEC is to develop, test and apply new technologies in molecular           
  biology to enhance fisheries management policies and actions. This long term

                                                                                        
  project was focused initially on the development of genetic tools to determine        
  population structures of major commercial and recreational species such as            
  swordfish, tunas and sharks. Emphasis has now been shifted to deal with broader       
  issues of management such as multi-species assemblages or habitats, and               
  detection of pathogens and/or diseases affecting marine organisms. Ongoing            
  research is organized into two major components dealing with molecular

  genetics of pelagic fish populations, and stock structure of coastal marine

  fisheries of the southeastern U.S. The results of FISHTEC research may be             
  found in numerous peer-reviewed publications.                                         
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

  Allowable cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular A-87 for            
  State and local governments and Indian Tribes; OMB Circular A-122 for                 
  nonprofit and for-profit organizations; OMB Circular A-21 for institutions of         


                                                                                   11-08
  higher education; and 48 CFR Part 31 for commercial organizations. Financial
  assistance management will be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 for
  institutions of higher education, hospitals, and other non-profit and commercial
  organizations, and with 15 CFR Part 24 for State and local governments.
Regional or Local Office:
  Alaska: Shawn Carey, Alaska Regional Office, NMFS, P.O. Box 21668, Juneau,
  AK 99802-1668. Telephone: (907) 586-7845, Fax: (907) 586-7255. Use the
  same numbers for FTS. Email: peter.d.jones@noaa.gov. Northeast: Harold C.
  Mears, Director, State, Federal, and Constituent Programs Office, National
  Marine Fisheries Service, Northeast Regional Office, One Blackburn Drive,
  Gloucester, MA 01930-2298. Telephone: (978) 281-9243. Fax: (978) 281- 9117.
  Email: Grants.Information@noaa.gov. Northwest: Kevin Ford, National Marine
  Fisheries Service, Northwest Region, 7600 Sand Point Way NE., Seattle, WA
  98115. Telephone: (206) 526-6115. Fax: (206) 526- 4461. Email:
  Kevin.Ford@noaa.gov. Northwest Center: Dr. Robert Iwamoto, OMI Director,
  Northwest Fisheries Science Center, 2725 Montlake Boulevard East, Seattle,
  WA 98112-2097. Telephone: (206) 860-3200. Fax: (206) 860-3442. Email:
  Bob.Iwamoto@noaa.gov. Southeast: Jeffrey Brown, State/Federal Liaison Staff,
  Southeast Regional Office, 9721 Executive Center Drive, North, St. Petersburg,
  FL 33702-2432. Telephone: (727) 570-5324. Fax: (727) 570-5364. Email:
  jeff.brown@noaa.gov. Southwest Region: Patricia Culver, 501 W. Ocean Blvd.,
  Suite 4200, Long Beach, CA. 90802. Telephone: (562) 980-4239. Email:
  trisha.culver@noaa.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  JoAnna Grable, Management and Administration Division, National Marine
  Fisheries Services, 1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910.
  Telephone (301) 713-1364. Use the same numbers for FTS. Fax: (301) 713-
  2258. Email: joanna.grable@noaa.gov.
Web Site Address:
  Alaska: http://www.fakr.noaa.gov/omi/grants/default.htm. Southeast Region:
  http://caldera.sero.nmfs.gov/grants/programs/science.htm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Alaska: Cooperative Fisheries Research in Alaska. Northeast: Maine Lobster
  Resource Assessment, Monitoring of New Hampshire's Fishery for Shell Disease
  in the American Lobster, Post Stratification and Calibration of a Random
  Stratified Lobster Ventless Trap Survey in Buzzards Bay and Vineyard Sound, A
  Study of the Striped Bass in the Marine District of New York State - Ocean Haul
  Seine Survey. Northeast Center: The Northeast Consortium is used encourage
  and fund collaborative research and monitoring projects within the Gulf of
  Maine and Georges Bank, which involve effective, equal partnerships among
  fishermen, scientists, and other stakeholders. Examine the population biology
  and dynamics of the multispecies fishery of the Northeast USA, with specific
  focus on the groundfish assemblage and American lobster, in support of the
  development of a fisheries management decision support system. Examine the
  population biology and dynamics of the sea scallop, from Virginia to the Hague
  line, USA in support of the development of a decision support system. A
  research and monitoring program to provide information required to sustainably
  manage the horseshoe crab resource for the benefit of all resource users. North
  Atlantic Right Whale Research Grant Program (RWRGP) is used for funding
  research or other activities that can provide information useful to management of
  North Atlantic right whales, with emphasis on understanding or mitigating
  factors inhibiting the species recovery. Southeast Region: Funded a cooperative
  program that investigated the technical, economic and commercial feasibility of
  farm raising marine finfish in cages in the northern Gulf of Mexico utilizing oil
  and gas production platforms as operation centers. Provided funds to refine,
  field-test and demonstrate a successful marine fisheries stock management
  program for the Gulf of Mexico that blends aquaculture technology with
  traditional fishery management practices. Georgia, South Carolina, and North
  Carolina were funded for their endangered species programs on sea turtles.
  Funded research in red drum biology to better understand survival rates in the
  wild. South Carolina was funded to create a taxonomic center to identify and
  archive marine specimens. Cooperative Institute for Fisheries Molecular Biology
  (FISHTEC). Northwest region: Ballard High School Maritime Academy/Seattle
  Public Schools.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are selected from several sources: Unsolicited proposals; special
  solicitations in the Federal Register or Commerce Business Daily; or
  Congressionally-mandated projects. Regardless of source, proposals must
  undergo rigorous technical review and comply with all OMB, DOC, and NOAA
  grants policies and procedures.
11.473 COASTAL SERVICES CENTER
   (CSC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION (NOAA),
  NATIONAL OCEAN SERVICE (NOS), DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
                                                                                 233
