AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  16 U.S.C. 1456C; 15 U.S.C. 1540; 33 U.S.C. 1442, 883a-d.                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To support projects aimed at developing a science-based, multi-dimensional          
  approach that will allow for the maintenance or improvement of environmental        
  quality while at the same time allowing for economic growth.                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Uses will be in the following Center areas: Coastal Learning Services (CLS)         
  program will develop a training program for coastal managers and scientists.        
  The Center's goal is to build leadership skills and capabilities to meet the        
  changing needs within the coastal community. Coastal Learning Services (CLS)        
  program will work with cooperators to collect and analyze physical, social, and     
  environmental indicator data and the Center will provide technical assistance       
  and training on performance measures. The Geographic Information Systems            
  Integration and Development Program (GIS I&D) program will provide relevant,        
  easily accessible spatial data, tools, and support services to the coastal resource 
  management community by working with nationally networked organizations on          
  geospatial solutions to issues related to coastal hazards. The Landscape            
  Characterization & Restoration program will develop an environmental                
  characterization of a coastal region designed for use by coastal resource           
  managers within two or more states to address a single management issue related     
  to coastal development. The Pacific Services Center (PSC), located in Hawaii,       
  will provide competitive grants through the Bay Watershed Education and             
  Training (B-WET) program to support existing environmental education                
  programs, fosters the growth of new programs, and encourages the development        
  of partnerships among environmental education programs throughout the               
  Hawaii. These projects provide meaningful outdoor experiences for students          
  and professional development opportunities for teachers in the area of              
  environmental education.                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Institutions of higher educations, hospitals, other nonprofits, commercial          
  organizations, foreign governments, organizations under the jurisdiction of         
  foreign governments, international organizations, and state, local and Indian       
  tribal governments.                                                                 
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Institutions of higher educations, hospitals, other nonprofits, commercial          
  organizations, foreign governments, organizations under the jurisdiction of         
  foreign governments, international organizations, and State, local and Indian       
  tribal governments.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Proposals with statements of work and estimated budgets. Costs will be              
  determined in accordance with OMB Circulars Nos. A-21 for agreements with           
  education institutions, A-87 for State and local governments and A-122 for          
  nonprofit institutions.                                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency and required by 15        
  CFR Parts 14 and 24 must be used for this program. This program is eligible for     
  coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."          
  An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the single point   
  of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the State        
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the   
  program for review.                                                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Proposal are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the        
  Funding Opportunity and/or CFDA number to access the application package            
  and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to the        
  Coastal Services Center. Proposal are subject to the requirements of 15 CFR         
  Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Awards are made on the basis of proposals evaluations, technical reviews and        
  administrative reviews, if applicable.                                              
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Contact the regional office for application.                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  From 90 to 180 days from time of proposal submission.                               
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Extension requests will be considered by CSC only if the recipient has submitted    
  all required performance reports. At least sixty days prior to the end of the       
  award, recipients must discuss with CSC expected reprogramming and                  
  extensions requests. After preliminary negotiation on proposed projects and         
  extensions, formal written reprogramming and extension requests should be           
  received by CSC 45 days prior to the end date of the award. CSC will not            
  recommend approval for any retroactive extension request (received after the end    
  date of the award). Recipients should make every effort to submit one extension     
  request for all projects needing an extension (when possible, multiple extension    
  requests should be avoided). With sufficient justification, CSC will recommend      


234                                                                             11-08

  approval of a six-month extension for the first extension request. First time or
  cumulative extension requests for more than six months but less than 12 months,
  will need more compelling justification as to why the project was not completed
  on time or could not be completed within the first six-month extension.
  Although CSC discourages extensions of more than 12 months, CSC will
  recommend approval in cases where the funds are already obligated. Renewal of
  an award to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total
  discretion of the Department.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  1-3 years with funding approved annually on individual and group proposals.
Reports:
  Financial Status Reports and Performance Reports are required semi-annually.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  Records will be retained in accordance with 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24 for
  institutions of higher education, other non-profit organizations, and for State and
  local government.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Grants/Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $27,000,000; FY 08 est not available;
  and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Proposals tend to range from $55,000 to $378,000 under the competitive
  process. For Congressional directed grants (non-competitive process) funding
  tends to range from $380,000 to 2,811,000 per proposal.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  For the GIS I&D program the following are accomplishments: A national level,
  state-based inventory of geospatial data, policies, and technology posted on the
  Web at http://www.md.gisinventory.net/ as a result of Random Access Metadata
  Tool for Online National Assessments-Phase 1 grant project. Through a grant
  entitled Developing a Dynamic and Distributed GIS to Support Coastal
  Management Along the Lake Superior Coast of Wisconsin GIS Web sites
  serving spatial data relevant to coastal management long the Lake Superior coast
  of Wisconsin, two refereed journal articles, Web tutorials on-line at
  http://maps.aqua.wisc.edu/lscmp/wlscmp_index.htm , and three project
  workshops were completed.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Department Administrative Order 203-36, dated May 15, 1985 (Department of
  Commerce Grants Administration) and also the NOAA Grants and Cooperative
  Agreement Policy Manual.
Regional or Local Office:
  Jeffrey L. Payne, Deputy Director, NOAA Coastal Services Center, 2234 South
  Hobson Ave., Charleston, SC 29405-2413. Telephone: (843) 740-1207 or
  contact James Lewis A. Free, Grants Coordinator, Telephone: (843) 740-1185.
Headquarters Office:
  Mr. John H. Dunnigan, Assistant Administrator, NOS, 1305 East-West
  Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-3074 Ext. 154.
Web Site Address:
  http:/www.csc.noaa.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.417, Sea Grant Support; 11.419, Coastal Zone Management Administration
  Awards; 11.420, Coastal Zone Management Estuarine Research Reserves;
  11.426, Financial Assistance for National Centers for Coastal Ocean Science;
  11.428, Intergovernmental Climate_ Program (NESDIS); 11.429, Marine
  Sanctuary Program; 11.431, Climate and Atmospheric Research; 11.432, Office
  of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) Joint and Cooperative Institutes;
  11.440, Environmental Sciences, Applications, Data, and Education; 11.449,
  Independent Education and Science Projects and Programs; 11.455, Cooperative
  Science and Education Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  (1) A priority of the GIS I&D program is to fund state and local level coastal
  resource management organizations proposing geospatial solutions to issues
  related to coastal hazards; and to provide other easily accessible spatial data,
  tools, and support services to the coastal management community. An example
  of a cooperative agreement grant awarded in 2005 by the GIS I&D program is a
  project with the Chatham County Emergency Management Agency. This agency
  is working with the Center to develop four Geographic Information Systems
  (GIS) applications to enhance overall planning, response, and recovery from
  hurricane hazards, building on previous tools such as HURREVAC, a restricted-
  use program developed by the Federal Emergency Management Agency
  (FEMA), U.S. Army Corps of Engineers (USACE), and the National Weather
