  Service. This project is scheduled to end in October 2006. (2) Another 2005        
  GIS I&D cooperative agreement grant project was awarded to the Ventura             
  County, California, Planning Division for development of a comprehensive GIS       
  database of biological resources at a parcel scale for Ventura County, California. 
  This project is scheduled to end in March 2007. (3) Under the CIS branch in        
  2005, a $97,570 cooperative agreement was awarded to Mississippi State             
  University to develop a shared geospatial database for Mobile Bay and the          
  Tennessee-Tombigbee watershed. This project is scheduled to end in September       
  2006.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Proposals are subject to office evaluations, technical reviews, administrative     
  reviews, and externals reviews, if applicable, taking into consideration primarily 
  scientific merit and application to the goals of NOAA and the Coastal Services     
  Center.                                                                            
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
11.474 ATLANTIC COASTAL FISHERIES COOPERATIVE                                        
MANAGEMENT ACT                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                   
  NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICES, DEPARTMENT OF                                  
  COMMERCE                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Atlantic Coastal Fisheries Cooperative Management Act, 16 U.S.C. 5107, as          
  amended.                                                                           
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide assistance to eligible States and the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries  
  Commission in order to support and encourage the development,                      
  implementation, and enforcement of effective interstate conservation and           
  management of Atlantic Coastal resources. Activities conducted under projects      
  will be used to collect information necessary for the preparation, implementation  
  and enforcement of coastal fisheries management plans and State activities         
  required within such plans. Primary users of the information would be the          
  Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (ASMFC), the Atlantic Coast            
  States, the National Marine Fisheries Service, and the U.S. Fish and Wildlife      
  Service.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds are restricted to "coastal fishery resources" which means any fishery, any   
  species of fish, or any stock of fish that moves among, or is broadly distributed  
  across, waters under the jurisdiction of two or more Atlantic Coastal States or    
  waters under the jurisdiction of one or more Atlantic Coastal States and the       
  exclusive economic zone. Funds can be provided to the Commission and to the        
  specified States for the preparation, implementation and enforcement of coastal    
  fishery management plans and State activities required within such plans. Funds    
  can also be used for program activities to support and enhance State cooperation   
  in collection, management and analysis of fishery data; law enforcement; habitat   
  conservation; fishery research including biological and socioeconomic research;    
  and fishery management planning.                                                   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants for assistance are the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries        
  Commission (ASMFC), the Atlantic Coast State governments which are Maine,          
  New Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut, New York, New             
  Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South          
  Carolina, Georgia, Florida, the Potomac River Fisheries Commission, and the        
  District of Columbia.                                                              
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  This program benefits State, and interstate marine resource conservation           
  agencies, the marine fishing industries and the general public.                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants are required to satisfy all DOC/NOAA standards and regulations,         
  including routine and special terms and conditions for financial assistance        
  programs application and conduct.                                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The standard application forms are furnished by NOAA. This program is eligible     
  for coverage under E.O. 12372, " Intergovernmental Review of Federal               
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the    
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.                                                            
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the      
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application            
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to   
  the (Name of your Office - Example Coastal Services Center). Proposals are         
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.              
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Proposals are initially evaluated by the pertinent NMFS Office/Region/Science      
  Center, and are subject to review for technical merit, soundness of design,        


                                                                                11-08
  competency of the applicant to perform the proposed work, potential
  contribution of the project to national or regional goals, and appropriateness and
  reasonableness of proposed costs. Projects recommended for funding will be
  submitted to the NOAA Grants Management Division for review and approval.
Deadlines:
  Applications must be received by the Program Office by April 1 of each fiscal
  year.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  The application processing time is 75 days as required by 15 U.S.C. 1539 (sole
  source selection).
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are generally approved on an annual basis,
  but may be continued beyond the initial project period, subject to approved time
  frame and scope of work, satisfactory progress, and availability of funds. The
  Department of Commerce has the discretion to renew the award to increase
  funding, or extend the period of performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. Projects are funded at up to 100 percent
  of the total project cost. A formula may be used to determine allocation of funds
  among eligible applicants. This formula may be based upon factors such as (but
  not limited to) the value of raw fish landed by domestic fishermen and the
  number of recreational fishing trips taken by anglers in each State, and the
  number of coastal fishery management plans in which the States participate.
  Recipient matching contributions are not required, but are encouraged. Direct
  allocations will be given to the District of Columbia, the Potomac River
  Fisheries Commission, Atlantic Coastal States, and the Atlantic States Marine
  Fisheries Commission, pursuant to NOAA'S discretion in accordance with the
  Statute.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Awards are normally for a 12 month period but in some instances, award periods
  may extend beyond 12 months, or may be completed in less than 12 months.
  Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and is expended in
  accordance with DOC/NOAA finance and reporting procedures. Funds are
  released in advance or by reimbursement, as agreed to in the Standard Terms
  and Conditions document required for each grant.
Reports:
  Reporting requirements are outlined in the Terms and Conditions of the
  Financial Assistance Award. Progress reports summarize work accomplished
  and explain situations where expected work has not been completed. Financial
  reports indicate use of funds during the reporting period.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include Hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall
  be subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act
  Amendments of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall
  be subject to the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document.
Records:
  Generally, a recipient is required to retain records relating to a particular grant
  for three years from the date of submission of the final financial report. In cases
  where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to expiration of the three-year
  period, records must be retained until the action and resolution of any issues
  associated with it are complete or until the end of the three-year retention period;
  whichever is latest.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Grants and Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $9,250,000; FY 08 est not
  available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $13,980 to $1,925,948. Average: $150,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Activities include the development and monitoring of interstate fishery
  management plans; fishery research and stock assessment; habitat conservation;
  and law enforcement. Others include restoration and maintenance of shared
  fisheries of the Atlantic Coast, with the principal emphasis on the conservation
  and restoration of migratory marine and diadromous fishery resources and their
  habitat, as well as the maintenance, enhancement, and improvement of public
  uses and benefits from these resources.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  For cost principles, see OMB Circular No. A-87 (State and local governments)
  and OMB Circular No. A-122 for other recipients. For grants management
  principles, see 15 CFR 24 (States and local governments) and 15 CFR 14 for
  other recipients.
Regional or Local Office:
  Northeast: Harold C. Mears, Director, State, Federal and Constituent Programs
  Office, National Marine Fisheries Service, Northeast Regional Office, One
  Blackburn Dr., Gloucester MA 01930. Telephone: (978) 281-9243. Fax: (978)
                                                                                       235
