  281-9117. Email: Grants.Information@noaa.gov. Southeast: Cynthia Binkley,          
  Federal Program Officer, State/Federal Liaison Branch, 263 13th Ave. South, St.    
  Petersburg, FL 33701. Telephone: (727) 824-5324. Fax: (727) 824-5364. E-           
  mail: cynthia.binkley@noaa.gov.                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Director, Office of Sustainable Fisheries, National Marine Fisheries Service,      
  1315 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-             
  2334. Fax: (301) 713-0596. E-mail: anne.lange@noaa.gov. Web site address:          
  http://www.nmfs.noaa.gov/sfa/state_federal/state_federal.htm.                      
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  Southeast: http://sero.nmfs.noaa.gov/grants.htm. Northeast:                        
  http://www.nero.noaa.gov/statefedoff/                                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  11.405, Anadromous Fish Conservation Act Program; 11.407, Interjurisdictional      
  Fisheries Act of 1986.                                                             
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Northeast Region: A Cooperative State-Federal Program for Conservation of          
  Atlantic Coastal Fisheries; Marine Recreational Fishery Statistics Survey;         
  Interstate Fisheries Management Support Program; Implementation of the             
  Atlantic Coastal Cooperative Statistics Program; and Biomonitoring and             
  Assessment Project for American Shad and River Herring. Southeast Region:          
  Florida Atlantic Coast Stock Assessments; Interstate Fisheries Management          
  Planning and Implementation; Implementation of the Atlantic Coastal                
  Cooperative Statistics Program; Interstate Fisheries Management Program            
  Implementation for North Carolina; and Fisheries Conservation Programs and         
  Management Plans.                                                                  
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Proposals are solicited from eligible coastal States and other eligible applicants 
  by notification from the National Marine Fisheries Service, Northeast and          
  Southeast Regional Offices. Proposals must undergo rigorous technical review       
  and comply with all OMB, DOC, and NOAA grants policies and procedures.             
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
11.477 FISHERIES DISASTER RELIEF                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL OCEANIC AND ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION,                                   
  NATIONAL MARINE FISHERIES SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  COMMERCE                                                                           
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Magnuson-Stevens Fishery Conservation and Management Act of 1996, Section          
  312(a), 16 U.S.C. 1861a; Departments of Justice and State, the Judiciary, and      
  Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Title II.                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To deal with commercial fishery failures due to fishery resource disasters.        
  Disaster causes may be (a) natural; (b) man-made (if they are "beyond the          
  control of fisheries managers to mitigate through conservation and management      
  measures"); or (c) undetermined.                                                   
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Funds can be used for assessing the effects of commercial fishery failures, or     
  restoring fisheries or preventing future failures, and assisting fishing           
  communities affected by the failures. However, the Secretary of Commerce           
  must first determine that the activity will not expand the commercial fishery      
  failure in that fishery or into other fisheries or other geographical regions.     
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants are agencies of State governments or fishing communities for   
  programs to provide assistance to fishing communities (including fishing vessel    
  owners, operators, and crew and United States fish processors that are based in    
  such community).                                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  This program directly benefits fishing communities (including fishing vessel       
  owners, operators, crew, and U.S. fish processors based in such communities)       
  that are adversely affected by commercial fishery failures due to a fishery        
  resource disaster.                                                                 
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants are required to satisfy all Department of Commerce, National            
  Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (DOC/NOAA) standards and                    
  regulations, including routine and special terms and conditions, for financial     
  assistance programs application and conduct. Costs will be determined in           
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A- 87 for State and local governments.            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  The standard application forms as furnished by the agency. This program is         
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov. Applicants will need to enter the      
  Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA number to access the application            
  package and instructions. Application package will then be submitted directly to   
  the National Marine Fisheries Service. Proposals are subject to the requirements   
  of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable.                                          


236                                                                            11-08

Award Procedure:
  Proposals are initially evaluated by the pertinent National Marine Fisheries
  Service (NMFS) office, region science center, or their component laboratories,
  and are subject to review for technical merit, soundness of design, competency
  of the applicant to perform the proposed work, potential contribution of the
  project to national or regional goals, and appropriateness and reasonableness of
  proposed costs. Projects recommended for funding will be submitted to the
  NOAA Grants Management Division for review and approval.
Deadlines:
  Project applications must be received by the receiving NMFS office at least 120
  days before the requested start date of the project.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval time is expected to range from 90 to 120 days, which includes
  processing of the award through the NMFS and DOC financial assistance
  procedures.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Grants and cooperative agreements are approved for a fixed period, but may be
  continued beyond that period, subject to approved time frame and scope of
  work, satisfactory progress, and availability of funds. Renewal of an award to
  increase funding, extend the period of an award to increase funding, or extend
  the period of performance is at the total discretion of the Department.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The Federal share of any activity under this program must not exceed 75 percent
  of the total costs of the activity. The minimum 25 percent contribution from the
  recipient may be as cash or in-kind contributions.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Varies. Award funds must be spent in the indicated budget period and are
  expended in accordance with OMB Cost Principles and DOC financial and
  reporting procedures. Funds are released in advance or by reimbursement, as
  agreed to in the Standard Terms and Conditions document required for each
  grant.
Reports:
  Reports are due in accordance with the terms and conditions of the award. The
  Department's financial assistance standard terms and conditions generally
  require that financial and performance reports be submitted on a semi-annual
  basis.
Audits:
  Audits are required at lease biennially by DOC Office of the Inspector General
  auditors, or an independent public accountant, and are subject to the Audit Act
  of 1984, 312 U.S.C. 7501-7507. Recipients that are subject to the provisions of
  OMB Circular No. A-133; Audit of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations; and that expend $500,000 or more in Federal awards shall have
  an audit performed in accordance with the requirements contained in OMB
  Circular No. A-133. In accordance with 15 CFR Part 14.26, for-profit recipients
  shall have a project audit performed no less than once every two years in
  accordance with the Generally Accepted Government Auditing Standards. See
  OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised June 27, 2003) (Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations and Information Collection Under
  OMB Review).
Records:
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical
  reports, and other records of grantees or subgrantees are required to be
  maintained by the terms of the agreement. The grantee must retain records for 3
  years from the date when the final financial status report is submitted unless
  otherwise directed by DOC/NOAA pursuant to the exception or 15 CFR Part 24,
  as applicable. In cases where litigation, claim or an audit is initiated prior to
  expiration of the three-year period, records must be retained until the action and
  resolution of any issues associated with it are complete or until the end of the
  three-year retention period; whichever is latest.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $343,500 to $7,000,000. Average: $2,781,167. FY 2006 Defense appropriations
  bill supplemental. Amount from USDA = $199.8M to refurbish/rehabilitate
  oyster beds damaged by 2005 hurricanes and HUD = $11.5B for disaster relief,
  long term recovery, restoration of infrastructure and mitigation in communities
  in 2005 hurricane disaster areas.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Fishery resource assessment, contaminant monitoring, debris mapping, and
  development of fishing effort reduction and market-based approaches to fishery
  management.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Grants administration will be in accordance with provisions of 15 CFR Part 24
  for State and Local Governments. For other projects developed to provide
  assistance to universities, nonprofits, and individuals, grants administration will
  be in accordance with 15 CFR Part 14 and costs will be determined in
