Account Identification:                                                               
  13-1450-0-1-306.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $16,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported. For         
  the OHHI program, those funds are allocated within the COP budget dollar            
  amounts.                                                                            
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $25,000 to $1,000,000.                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The Coastal Ocean Program is currently funding over 68 competitively awarded        
  ongoing extramural research funding commitments to over 80 external marine          
  science institutions. This cutting-edge research has already and will in the future 
  benefit the management of U.S. coastal resources and increase our                   
  understanding of the coastal ocean. Projects are underway to unravel the            
  ecology and oceanography of harmful algal blooms and help coastal states            
  manage HAB associated health and economic risks; understand the effects of          
  human impacts on coral reef ecosystems in the Caribbean and Micronesia;             
  assess the potential impacts of the Everglades restoration project on South         
  Florida ecosystems; understanding the effects of climate variability on fish        
  stocks in the Northwest Pacific and Northwest Atlantic; and detecting and           
  assessing the extent of the hypoxic area in the Northern Gulf of Mexico.            
  CSCOR studies will also examine the impacts of multiple stressors on coastal        
  ecosystems in Louisiana and integrate the findings of recently completed east       
  coast research projects.                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  None.                                                                               
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  Rob Magnien, Director, NOAA/CSCOR/COP, 1305 East-West Highway, Silver               
  Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713- 3338, Fax: (301) 713-4044. For the          
  OHHI program: Hal Stanford, 1305 East-West Highway, Silver Spring, MD               
  20910. Telephone: (301) 713-3020, Ext. 135, Fax (301) 713-4044.                     
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Center for Sponsored Coastal Ocean Research, Coastal Ocean Program, National        
  Ocean and Atmospheric Administration, 1305 East West Highway, Room 8243,            
  Silver Spring, MD 20910. Telephone: (301) 713-3338.                                 
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.cop.noaa.gov.                                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  The Coastal Ocean Program uses a regional, multi-disciplinary approach to           
  understanding and predicting the impacts of natural and anthropogenic               
  variability on coastal ecosystems, communities, and economies. The main goal        
  of the Coastal Ocean Program (COP) is to improve predictions for coastal            
  management through research to understand and describe coastal systems, data        
  synthesis and modeling to assess and predict ecosystem conditions, and              
  translation of scientific results to engage, inform, and advise the public. The     
  COP sponsors competitive, peer-reviewed research to collaborate with and            
  augment NOAA-based research programs focused on the coastal ocean,                  
  estuaries, and coastal margins.                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Proposals are evaluated by competitive peer review taking into consideration        
  primarily scientific merit and applicability to COP's research goals. Principal     
  investigators' qualifications and cost are also considered, with cost subject to    
  negotiation.                                                                        
                                                                                      
11.480 NATIONAL OCEAN SERVICE INTERN PROGRAM                                          
                                                                                      
      (NOS Intern Program)                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE, NATIONAL OCEANIC AND                                        
  ATMOSPHERIC ADMINISTRATION, NATIONAL OCEAN SERVICE                                  
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  15 U.S.C. 1540.                                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To establish an Intern Program which will provide unique opportunities for          
  cooperative study, research, and development that would be of major benefit in      
  advancing the number and diversity of skilled engineers, scientists, and            
  managers in the environmental arena who are familiar with the techniques and        
  technologies used by the National Ocean Service (NOS).                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Primary grantee may use funds to recruit and evaluate candidate interns and to      
  administer and fund stipends for implemented internships.                           
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Primary awards will be available to nonprofit organizations. Internships are        
  restricted to recent college graduates and have a maximum cumulative duration       
  of 24 months for any individual.                                                    


238                                                                             11-08

Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Benefits to the Nation are increased opportunities for recent college graduates to
  increase public awareness and gain exposure to government programs that affect
  the Nation's coastal areas and resources. This program will also promote interest
  in civil service as a career. Benefits also include a transfer of the techniques,
  technologies, and methods used by NOS to the next generation of engineers,
  scientists, and managers in the environmental arena. Interns who are selected by
  the program will receive increased training and skill enhancement as identified
  by the particular Internship opportunity in which they participate.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants are required to satisfy all Department of Commerce (DOC) and
  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) standards and
  regulations, including routine and special terms and conditions, for financial
  assistance programs application and conduct. Costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for educational institutions and A-22
  for nonprofit organizations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372,
  Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs.
Application Procedure:
  Grantee: Candidate partners will submit an application for financial assistance
  (SF 424) with statement of work to be performed and proposed amount. This
  program is subject to the requirements of OMB Circular No. A-110 and 15 CFR
  24, Grants and Cooperative Agreements with State and Local Governments, as
  applicable. The Statement of work should include the proposed plan for
  advertising and recruitment, costs for recruiting, selecting, and administering an
  intern based on duration and stipend level of the internship. Intern: Intern
  candidates will apply for internships developed, documented, and funded by a
  component of NOS, and transmitted, after review by the project office, to the
  grantee who shall advertise them according to their proposed plan. The grantee
  will screen the applicants based on the documented requirements of the
  internship and transmit the highest qualified (typically 5 to 10) to NOS for
  further review. NOS will assign priority sequences to the candidates who will be
  offered the internship by the grantee in that order. Funding of the intern and
  administrative supervision will be through the grantee according to their
  proposal. The interns will work in Governmental offices under the technical
  supervision of the Government. Proposals are submitted through Grants.Gov.
  Applicants will need to enter the Funding Opportunity Number and/or CFDA
  number to access the application package and instructions. Application package
  will then be submitted directly to the Office of Coast Survey. Proposals are
  subject to the requirements of 15 CFR Parts 14 and 24, as applicable. In FY06
  this grant closed and no further funding accepted.
Award Procedure:
  Awards are made on the basis of proposal evaluation, technical review, and
  administrative review.
Deadlines:
  Applications must be received by NOS 45 days following announcement in the
  Federal Register.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval time is expected to range from 90 to 180 days, which includes
  processing of the award through the NOS, NOAA, and DOC financial assistance
  functions.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Cooperative activities are generally approved on an annual fiscal year basis, but
  may be continued beyond the first year, subject to satisfactory progress and
  availability of funds.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Five years with funding approved annually.
Reports:
  Implementation plans are required annually. Progress reports are due semi-
  annually. Financial status reports are require quarterly. Final reports are due
  ninety days after expiration of reward.
Audits:
  Recipients will be subject to the provisions of the Single Audit Act Amendments
  of 1996 and revised OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  None.
Account Identification:
  13-1450-0-1-306.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $0; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not
  reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Indeterminate and highly variable. Minimum of $40,000 and maximum of
  $1,800,000 per year (1 to 50 interns).
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
