Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Educational Partnership           
  Program, Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research, Education Partnership         
  Program, 1315 East-West Highway, SSMC 3, Room 10600, Silver Spring, MD             
  20910. Telephone: (301) 713-9437. Attn: Jacqueline J. Rousseau.                    
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://epp.noaa.gov.                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  (a) Cooperative Science Centers (b) High School Pipeline Projects Enhancement      
  Projects (c) Demonstration Research Projects (d) Student Scholarship Programs.     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Proposals are subject to a review process taking into consideration the            
  applicant(s) Performance Plan, research plans, scientific merit, investigator's    
  qualifications, cost and available funds. Proposals must undergo a rigorous        
  technical review and comply with all OMB, DoC and NOAA grant policies and          
  procedures. Specific information about the selection process will be included in   
  the solicitation.                                                                  
                                                                                     
11.550 PUBLIC TELECOMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES                                          
                                                                                     
PLANNING AND CONSTRUCTION                                                            
      (PTFP)                                                                         
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND INFORMATION                                        
  ADMINISTRATION, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Communications Act of 1934, Title III, Part IV, 47 U.S.C 390-394, 397-399 (b)      
  as amended, Public Law 87-447, 76 Stat. 64; Science, State, Justice, Commerce,     
  and Related Agency Appropriations Act of 2006; Public Law 109-108.                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To assist in the planning, acquisition, installation, and modernization of public  
  telecommunications facilities, through planning grants and matching                
  construction grants, in order to: (a) extend delivery of public                    
  telecommunications services to as many citizens of the United States and           
  territories as possible by the most efficient and economical means, including the  
  use of broadcast and nonbroadcast technologies; (b) increase public                
  telecommunications services and facilities available to, operated by and owned     
  by minorities and women; and (c) strengthen the capability of existing public      
  television and radio stations to provide public telecommunications service to the  
  public.                                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Provides grants for the planning and construction of public telecommunications     
  facilities. Matching grants are given for apparatus necessary for the production,  
  dissemination, interconnection, captioning, broadcast, or other distribution of    
  noncommercial educational, cultural radio and television programs, as well as      
  noncommercial instructional or informational services. Buildings and               
  renovations of buildings, land, operational expenses, and indirect costs are       
  ineligible.                                                                        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  A public or noncommercial educational broadcast station; a noncommercial           
  telecommunications entity; a system of public telecommunications entities; a       
  nonprofit foundation, corporation, institution or association organized primarily  
  for educational or cultural purposes; State, local, and Indian Tribal governments  
  (or an agency thereof); or a political or special purpose subdivision of a State.  
  Special consideration is given to applications which would increase minority       
  and women's ownership of, operation of, and participation in public                
  telecommunications entities.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  General public and students.                                                       
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  All applicants must supply proof of eligibility. Applicants must supply proof of   
  their Federal Communications Commission (FCC) license, permit, or application      
  if FCC authorization is required for any aspect of the proposed project.           
  Applicants must provide assurances required under Program Rules and                
  Regulations.                                                                       
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Program staff members are available to provide technical and other assistance in   
  preparing application forms. This program is eligible for coverage under           
  E.O.12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant            
  should consult the office or official designated as the single point of contact in 
  his or her State for more information on the process the State requires to be      
  followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the program for     
  review. Applicants must coordinate their project plans with the State educational  
  television, radio, or telecommunications agency and must file an application       
  with the FCC if an FCC authorization is required for the proposed project.         


240                                                                            11-08

  Applicants must show evidence of participation in comprehensive planning in
  the area to be served including an evaluation of alternate technologies.
Application Procedure:
  The application forms as furnished by the Federal Agency and approved by
  OMB must be used for this program. The Application Kit can be requested from
  the Agency or retrieved from the web-site at www.ntia.doc.gov/ptfp. By the
  deadline, applicants must file a completed PTFP Application Form, Project
  Narrative, Project Budget forms, relevant exhibits, CD-511, CD 346, SF 424B,
  and SF LLL. Where applicable, applicants must notify the State
  Telecommunications Agency, State Single Point of Contact, and the Federal
  Communications Commission. Applications postmarked or received after the
  deadline are returned to applicants.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed on the basis of funding criteria for construction and
  planning applications as set forth in the regulations. The Administrator of NTIA
  may select an application for funding, in whole or in part, and will notify the
  applicant, the relevant State agency, the FCC, and the Corporation for Public
  Broadcasting.
Deadlines:
  The Administrator of NTIA shall select and publish in the Federal Register the
  date by which applications must be filed in order to be considered for funding in
  the current fiscal year. For fiscal year 2008 consideration, the deadline for filing
  applications is February 22, 2008.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Awards for the current fiscal year are generally announced in 180 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Applications that are not funded may be reactivated upon request of the
  applicant during the two consecutive years following the applicant's initial
  receipt by the agency, as provided by program regulations.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  47 U.S.C 392 (b) and (c); 15 CFR 2301.6. The Administrator may provide up to
  100 percent of the funds necessary for the planning of a public
  telecommunications facility. The maximum amount of a federal grant for the
  construction of a public telecommunication facility is 75 percent of the eligible
  project costs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Projects must be completed within a reasonable period of time, generally one to
  two years as specified in the award document. Prompt completion is expected.
  Extensions, however, may be requested in writing if circumstances require
  additional time. Extensions must be approved by the Grants Officer. Financial
  assistance is generally released as required during the award period.
Reports:
  During construction, quarterly progress reports must be submitted. The Federal
  Government maintains a ten-year reversionary interest in the use of the facilities
  from the date of completion. Annual reports must be submitted before April 1st
  of each year during such period.
Audits:
  Audits will be conducted in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
  award and OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Nonprofit Organizations. In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular
  No. A-133, (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and
  Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of
  $500,000 or more in federal awards will have a single or a program-specific
  audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than
  $500,000 a year in federal awards are exempt from federal audit requirements
  for the year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients of construction grants shall keep a complete and itemized inventory
  of equipment for all public telecommunications facilities under their control. All
  grantees shall keep complete, current and accessible financial records on all
  funds associated with the total project. All records of accounts, supporting
  documents and project records must be retained by the recipient and
  subrecipient for a period of three years from the date of submission of the final
  Financial Status Report.
Account Identification:
  13-0551-0-1-503.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $22,450,443; FY 08 est $19,456,872; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $6,787 to $1,189,250. Average: $190,258.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  During 2007, the program awarded 118 grants for $22.45 million.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Public Telecommunications Facilities Program and Policy Statement, Final
  Rules, 15 CFR 2301 printed in 61 FR 57966 (November 8, 1996). Written
  request to the Director, Public Telecommunications Facilities Program, will
  obtain application forms containing regulations, authorizing legislation, and
  other pertinent materials. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB
