  are conducted on an annual basis. It also develops device performance and           
  commodity packaging standards with representatives of manufacturers,                
  packagers, distributors, consumer groups, and officials in Federal, State, and      
  local jurisdictions who enforce laws and regulations governing packages and         
  measuring devices. The agency provides technical support to the National            
  Conference on Weights and Measures (NCWM) and aids in the development of            
  uniform and compatible State weights and measures laws and regulations, codes       
  for measuring device design and performance, and the design and                     
  implementation of test procedures and prototype device evaluation. The Weights      
  and Measures Division staff participates actively in NCWM affairs, and              
  provides technical assistance to its members, to Federal, State, and local          
  government, and to private manufacturing and service businesses. The Fourth         
  Edition of NIST Handbook 133 was published in January 2003. A                       
  comprehensive CD-ROM-based training course in laboratory mass calibration           
  procedures and concepts was completed in September 2003. A CD-ROM-based             
  training course in the use of electronic audit trails for commercial weighing and   
  measuring devices was completed in June 2004. Workshops for weights and             
  measures administrators were held in 2001 and in 2004 to address management         
  and budget issues confronting weights and measures enforcement programs. A          
  benchmark study of the national weights and measures system was completed in        
  February 2005.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Model laws, regulations, codes, and test procedures relating to weights and         
  measures enforcement, packaging and labeling, method of sale of commodities,        
  unit pricing, open dating, field inspections, and registration of service persons,  
  and service agencies, engine fuel quality, and weighmasters. Manuals for            
  coordinating the system of State laboratories, testing specific measuring devices,  
  and training State officials. Design and performance codes for scales, liquid and   
                                                                                      
  vapor meters, distance and time measuring devices, and other measuring

                                                                                      
  equipment. Most publications available from the Government Printing Office.

                                                                                      
  List of Publications is available from the Weights and Measures Division at no

                                                                                      
  charge.

                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                      
  Carol Hockert, Chief, Weights and Measures Division, National Institute of

                                                                                      
  Standards and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 2600, Gaithersburg, MD

                                                                                      
  20899-2600. Telephone: (301) 975-4004. Use the same number for FTS.

                                                                                      
Web Site Address:

                                                                                      
  http://ts.nist.gov/ts/htdocs/230/235/owmhome.htm.

                                                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:

  11.601, Calibration Program.                                                        
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Awards not available. Funds support standards development for devices and           
  packaging, the development of training materials for State and local weights and    
  measures officials, and the delivery of weights and measures related training to    
  weights and measures officials, industry representatives, and State and industry    
  laboratory metrologists.                                                            
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                     
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
11.609 MEASUREMENT AND ENGINEERING RESEARCH                                           
AND STANDARDS                                                                         
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Bureau of Standards Organic Act, Public Law 56-177, as amended, 15         
  U.S.C. 271 et seq, 19 U.S.C 2343-45.                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide scientific research and technology transfer for measurement and          
  engineering research and standards.                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Grant money will be used to further scientific research and technology transfer,    
  in areas of fire research, building research, precision measurement, automation     
  manufacturing, materials science, chemistry, physics, biotechnology, electronics,   
  optical technologies, mathematics, communications and information, science          
  and technology and other areas of specific research.                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Institutions of higher education (e.g. universities and colleges), professional     
  institutes and associations, nonprofit organizations, State and local governments,  
  laboratories, and commercial organizations.                                         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Universities, colleges, professional institutes and associations, nonprofit         
  organizations, State and local governments, and commercial organizations.           
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants must have and demonstrate scientific competence in areas of              


246                                                                             11-08

  research for which grants are requested. Costs will be determined in accordance
  with applicable cost principles found at 2 CFR Part 220, Cost Principles for
  Education Institutions (OMB Circular A-21), 2 CFR Part 225, Cost Principles
  for State, Local and Indian Tribal Governments (OMB Circular A-87), 2 CFR
  Part 230, Cost Principles for Non-profit Organizations (OMB Circular A-122),
  48 CFR 31 for Commercial Organizations, 45 CFR 74, Appendix E for
  Hospitals.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants should reply to notices published as Federal funding opportunities at
  www.grants.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Award process based upon published selection criteria.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines for proposal submissions are contained in announcements described
  in the application procedure.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Approval times are from 6 to 9 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Future or continued funding will be at the discretion of NIST, based on such
  factors as satisfactory performance and the availability of funds. Renewals are
  competed whereas continuations of multi-year agreements are not subject to
  further competition.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Usually one to five years in length.
Reports:
  Semi-annual and final program and financial status reports are required; unless
  specified in award document.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit
  Organizations (to include hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall be
  subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act Amendments
  of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall be subject to
  the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. In accordance with
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, Audits of States, Local
  Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, nonfederal entities that expend
  financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal Awards will have a single or
  a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend
  less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit
  requirements for the year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  All records of accounts and supporting documents will be retained by recipient
  and subcontractors for a period of three years from the date of submission of
  final expenditure report.
Account Identification:
  13-0500-0-1-376; 13-0525-0-1-376; 13-4650-0-4-376.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $34,362,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Dependent upon nature and type of grant.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Three hundred and nine grants, cooperative agreements, and amendments were
  funded in fiscal year 2005. It is estimated that approximately the same level will
  be funded in fiscal years 2006 and 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  This program is subject to the provisions of 15 CFR 24 and 15 CFR 14.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  National Institute of Standards and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Bldg. 411,
  Room A120, Mail Stop 3580, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-3580. Telephone: (301)
  975-6328.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.nist.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.601, Calibration Program; 11.603, National Standard Reference Data
  System; 11.604, Standard Reference Materials; 11.606, Weights and Measures
  Service.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Examples of funded projects include: Development and Study of Strong and
  Ductile Magnesium Alloys; Experimental Investigation of Vitiated Flame
  Behavior and Self-Extinction in Fires; Interaction of Laser and Synchrotron
  Radiation with Semiconductor Photodetectors; Measurements of Molecular
  Assemblies on Surfaces; and Ultra-Thin Oxide Metrology and Reliability.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
