  Criteria vary with type of proposal. Specific criteria listed in the Federal Funding
  Opportunities posted at www.grants.gov.                                             
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
11.610 NATIONAL CENTER FOR STANDARDS AND                                              
CERTIFICATION INFORMATION                                                             
   (NCSCI)                                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Bureau of Standards Organic Act, Public Law 56-177, as amended, 31         
  Stat. 1449, 15 U.S.C. 271 et seq; Trade Agreements Act of 1979, Public Law          
  96-39, 93 Stat. 299, 19 U.S.C. 2416.                                                
                                                                                      
OBJECTIVES:

  To serve as a standards information and conformity assessment center and

  referral service, by maintaining a reference collection of standards and            
  specifications, regulations, certification rules, directories, reference books and

                                                                                      
  special publications. To respond to inquiries, develop and publish lists,           
  bibliographies, indexes, and directories of standards and related information,      
  and to provide trade related regulations and certification information to U.S.      
  exporters and manufacturers. To serve as U.S. Inquiry Point for the WTO TBT         
  Agreement, NAFTA, and ISONET. To serve as U.S. Notification Authority for           
  the WTO TBT Agreement.                                                              
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Dissemination of Technical Information.                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Responds to the needs of government, industry, U.S. exporters, manufacturers,

                                                                                      
  and the general public for information on domestic and foreign standards,           
  regulations, certification procedures, and standards related activities.

                                                                                      
  Information on standards, collections, copyrights and lending restrictions are

                                                                                      
  provided on site. NCSCI does not analyze, evaluate, or interpret standards.         
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State and local government, private, public, profit organizations, nonprofit        
  institutions and individuals.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State and local government, private, public, profit organizations, nonprofit        
  institutions and individuals will benefit.                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  None.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

                                                                                      
  Inquiry may be made by telephone, letter, fax, or e-mail to the National Center

                                                                                      
  for Standards and Certification Information, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 2160,

                                                                                      
  Gaithersburg, MD 20899-2160. Telephone: (301) 975-4040. Fax: (301) 926-

                                                                                      
  1559. E-mail: ncsci@nist.gov.

                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  None.

Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  None.                                                                               
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Depends on the nature of the request. Response time for 90 percent of the           
  inquiries ranges from immediate to several weeks. Trade related inquiries that      
  depend on information from abroad may take longer for response.                     
Reports:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  None.                                                                               
Records:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  13-0500-0-1-376; 13-4650-0-4-376.                                                   
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Operating expenses) FY 07 $700,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est         
  not reported.                                                                       
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Published directories and indexes on standards related information. Publications



                                                                                 11-08
  are available from NCSCI, GPO, NTIS, or other designated private publishers.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Dr. Carmina Londono; Telephone: (301) 975-2573 or Global Standards and
  Information Group, Standards Services Division, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 2100,
  Gaithersburg, MD 20899-2100. Telephone: (301) 975-4040. Fax: (301) 926-
  1559.
Web Site Address:
  http://ts.nist.gov/ncsci/
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.606, Weights and Measures Service.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
11.611 MANUFACTURING EXTENSION PARTNERSHIP
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, 15 U.S.C. 278K, as amended
  by Public Law 100-418; American Technology Preeminence Act of 1991;
  Technology Administration Act of 1998.
OBJECTIVES:
  To establish, maintain, and support manufacturing extension centers and
  services, the functions of which are to improve the competitiveness of firms
  accelerating the usage of appropriate manufacturing technology by smaller U.S.
  based manufacturing firms, and partner with the States in developing such
  technical assistance programs and services for their manufacturing base.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Cooperative Agreements; Dissemination of Technical Information.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Federal funding provided under this program shall be used for the creation and
  support of manufacturing extension services, or used by the States to plan for
  and pilot test state-wide extension services. It may also be used to plan for and
  pilot test services within a multi-state region which has sufficient regional
  linkages to justify such services. Extension service providers shall be affiliated
  with a U.S. based nonprofit institution or organization or group thereof. Funds
  may be used for the purpose of demonstrations, technology deployment, active
  transfer and dissemination of research findings and extension service expertise
  to a wide range of companies and enterprises, especially small manufacturers
  with fewer than 500 employees. Congressional funding has been provided
  annually since fiscal year 1988 (under Manufacturing Technology Centers and
  the State Technology Extension Program, which were combined into the
  Manufacturing Extension Partnership in fiscal year 1993).
Applicant Eligibility:
  For extension services, eligible applicants shall be U.S.-based nonprofit
  institutions or organizations or groups thereof. Applicants must contribute 50
  percent or more of the proposed service's capital, annual operating and
  maintenance costs. At least 50 percent of the applicant's share must be as cash or
  full-time personnel. For extension service planning and pilot services
  agreements, eligible applicants shall be State governments and State affiliated
  nonprofit organizations. For multi-state regional planning and pilot services
  agreements, eligible applicants shall be State and local governments,
  representing either themselves or a consortium of States, and appropriate private
  or public nonprofit organizations, operating on behalf of a consortium of States
  or as a representative of States.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiary shall be U.S.-based manufacturing firms, especially smaller
  companies.
Credentials/Documentation:
  An applicant for manufacturing extension centers must submit a proposal in
  accordance with 15 CFR 290, which provides assurances that they will
  contribute 50 percent or more of the proposed center's capital, annual operating
  and maintenance costs. Proposals also must contain sufficient information
  regarding management, technical, and technology strengths sufficient for a
  formal merit review of the proposal. Applicants must have and demonstrate
  competence in areas for which financial assistance is requested. Costs will be
  determined in accordance with applicable cost principles found in OMB
  Circular Nos. A-87 for State and local governments, A-21 for educational
  institutions, A-122 for nonprofit organizations, 48 CFR 31 for commercial
  organizations, and 45 CFR 74, Appendix E for hospitals.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The extension service planning and pilot testing portion of this program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs". An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
                                                                                    247
