  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected  
  the program for review. For manufacturing extension centers, no formal               
  preapplication is required, although applicants are advised to discuss their         
  proposal during the early stages of development with NIST MEP regional               
  managers. This portion of the program is excluded from coverage under E.O.           
  12372.                                                                               
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applicants must submit proposals in accordance with deadlines and other details      
  as published in formal program announcements including Standard Form 424             
  and Commerce Department Form 511. Applicants for manufacturing extension             
  centers must follow the format set out in 15 CFR 290.                                
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  All timely submitted and qualified proposals are reviewed by a NIST selection        
  panel. For proposals for manufacturing extension centers, the finalists' proposals   
  are selected on the basis of NIST evaluations and judgments based on published       
  evaluation criteria, and may undergo a site visit.                                   
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Notices of availability of funds and deadlines are published in the Federal          
  Funding Opportunity at www.grants.gov.                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Applicants should be notified within 60 to 90 days of the application deadline       
  for extension service planning/pilot testing agreements, and 120 days for            
  manufacturing extension centers.                                                     
Appeals:                                                                               
  None.                                                                                
Renewals:                                                                              
  Future or continued funding will be based on availability of funds, and will be      
  based on satisfactory performance, and may be subject to competition.                
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  A State may be required to provide adequate assurances that it will increase its     
  spending on technology extension by an amount at least equal to the amount of

  Federal assistance requested. For manufacturing extension centers, the program       
  has no statutory formula. For years 1-3, applicants must provide at least 50

  percent of the capital, annual operating and maintenance funds required to create    
  and maintain the center. For year 4, applicants must provide 60 percent, and         
  66.7 percent for year 5 and beyond. Funds may be provided by any non- Federal        
  source. A minimum of 50 percent of the applicant's share must be as cash or          
  full-time personnel.                                                                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  For extension service planning and pilot-testing agreements, one year. For           
  manufacturing extension centers, duration of support is based upon positive          
  evaluation every two years, and availability of funds.                               
Reports:                                                                               
  Quarterly progress and financial reports are required. Each request for              
  reimbursement must be accompanied by a report of applicant's cost-share              
  contribution.                                                                        
Audits:                                                                                
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June           
  27, 2003), recipients that are States, Local Governments, Nonprofit                  
  Organizations (to include hospitals), and Institutions of Higher Learning shall be   
  subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act Amendments       
  of 1996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall be subject to          
  the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. In accordance with       
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of        
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, nonfederal entities that     
  expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal Awards will have a        
  single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities      
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal      
  audit requirements for the year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.              
Records:                                                                               
  All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents, statistical            
  reports, and other records of awardees or subawardees are required to be             
  maintained by the terms of the agreement. The awardees must retain records for       
  3 years after completion of the project or submission of the final financial report, 
  whichever is later, and be readily available for inspection and audit.               
Account Identification:                                                                
  13-0525-0-1-376.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $35,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY          
  09 est not reported.                                                                 
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  Individual awards for extension service planning and pilot testing agreements        
  should range between $25,000 and $100,000. Awards for manufacturing                  
  extension centers fall in the range of $200,000 to $6,500,000 annually.              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  In fiscal year 2006, the MEP program will continue to increase U.S.                  
  manufacturers productivity and competitiveness as well as to ensure reliable and     
  secure supply chains. NIST MEP will leverage the manufacturing extension             
  infrastructure by cooperating with other federal agencies to encourage               
  innovative practices, to develop a workforce ready to meet the demands of our        


248                                                                              11-08

  nation's high growth industries and to expand manufacturers participation in the
  global economy. The most recent performance results of the MEP program can
  be found on the MEP website at:
  http://www.mep.nist.gov/impacts/impacts.html.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Program regulations are codified at 15 CFR 290-92. A Federal Register Notice
  announcing the request for proposals from qualified organizations will be
  published when funds are available. This program is subject to the provisions of
  15 CFR 24 and 15 CFR 14.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Mr. Roger Kilmer, Director, Manufacturing Extension Partnership, National
  Institute of Standards and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive Stop 4800,
  Gaithersburg, MD 20899-4800. Telephone: (301) 975-5020.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.mep.nist.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.303, Economic Development_Technical Assistance; 11.650, National
  Technical Information Service; 43.002, Technology Transfer; 59.037, Small
  Business Development Centers.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A map of the current funded MEP centers is available at
  http://www.mep.nist.gov/about-mep/center-info.html.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are selected on the basis of merit. Selection criteria are published in
  the Federal Funding Opportunity, and for manufacturing extension centers,
  appear in 15 CFR 290.
11.612 ADVANCED TECHNOLOGY PROGRAM
   (ATP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, Public Law 100-418, Section
  5131(a); American Technology Preeminence Act of 1991, Public Law 102-245,
  Section 201(c), 15 U.S.C. 278n.
OBJECTIVES:
  To work in partnership with industry to foster the development and broad
  dissemination of challenging, high-risk technologies that offer the potential for
  significant, broad-based economic benefits for the nation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Single for-profit company recipients can receive ATP funds for R&D activities
  for up to 3 years, with ATP funding not to exceed $2 million. ATP funds may
  only be used to pay for direct costs for single company recipients. Single
  company recipients are responsible for funding all of their overhead/indirect
  costs. Small and medium sized companies applying as single company proposers
  are not required to provide cost-sharing of direct costs. Large companies
  applying as single company proposers, however, must cost-share at least 60
  percent of the total project costs (direct plus indirect costs). A large company is
  defined as any business, including any parent company plus related subsidiaries,
  having annual revenues in excess of $3.043 billion. (Note that this number will
  likely change for future competitions and, if so, will be noted in future annual
  announcements of availability of funds and ATP Proposal Preparation Kits.)
  Joint ventures can receive ATP funds for R&D activities for up to 5 years, with
  ATP funding a minority share of the total project costs. Joint ventures must cost-
  share (matching funds) more than 50 percent of the total project costs (direct
  plus indirect costs). Joint ventures must consist of at least two separately-owned
  for-profit companies, both of which are substantially involved in the R&D and
  both contributing towards the matching fund requirement. The joint venture may
  include additional for-profit companies, universities, governmental laboratories
  (excluding any NIST laboratory), independent research organizations, and/or
  nonprofit organizations, which may or may not contribute funds (other than
  Federal funds) to the project and perform R&D activities. The joint venture need
  not be a legally constituted entity but can consist of companies who simply agree
  to collaborate on the R&D and divide tasks. ATP funding may not be used to
  fund product development or be used to fund existing or planned research
  programs that would otherwise be conducted in the same period.
Applicant Eligibility:
  U.S. businesses and U.S. joint research and development ventures. Foreign-
  owned businesses are eligible for funding, provided they meet the requirements
  of Public Law 102-245, Sec. 201(c)(6-7). Universities, government laboratories
  (excluding any NIST laboratory), independent research organizations, and/or
  nonprofit organizations, may participate as a member of a joint venture that
  includes at least two separately owned for-profit companies, both of which are
