  substantially involved in the R&D and both contributing towards the matching-       
  fund requirement.                                                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  U.S. businesses and U.S. joint ventures; and foreign-owned businesses that meet     
  the requirements of Public Law 102-245, Section 201(c)(6-7).                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Proposals with statements of work, business plans, and detailed budgets. Costs      
  will be determined in accordance with applicable Federal costs principles found     
  in OMB Circular Nos. A-21 for educational institutions, A-122 for nonprofit         
  organizations, 48 CFR 31 for commercial organizations, and 45 CFR 74,               
  Appendix E for hospitals.                                                           
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Proposal are submitted under a multi-stage and sequential review process to         
  reduce the amount of information required at one time. Required information is      
  submitted at different stages as determinations are made by ATP that proposals      
  have high merit based on the selection criteria. These stages in the review         
  process are called "gates." Proposals must pass through each gate in order to       
  receive funding. Proposals should be submitted only in response to formal           
  competition announcements and requests for proposals published in the "Federal      
  Register" and "Federal Funding Opportunity" available at www.grants.gov.            
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  Competitive award process based upon published selection criteria.                  
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines for proposal submissions are contained in the formal competition          
  announcements and requests for proposals published in the "Federal Register"        
  and "Federal Funding Opportunity" available at www.grants.gov.                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  120 to 180 days.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  ATP awards may be renewed within the statutory time limitation based on             
  satisfactory performance and availability of funds from Congress.                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  ATP funds may only be used to pay for direct costs for single company               
  recipients. Single company recipients are responsible for funding all of their      
  overhead/indirect costs. Small and medium sized companies applying as single        
  company proposers are not required to provide cost-sharing of direct costs.         
  Large companies applying as single company proposers, however, must cost-           
  share at least 60 percent of the total project costs (direct plus indirect costs). A
  large company is defined as any business, including any parent company plus         
  related subsidiaries, having annual revenues in excess of $3.043 billion. (Note     
  that this number will likely change for future competitions and, if so, will be     
  noted in future annual announcements of availability of funds and ATP Proposal      
  Preparation Kits.) Joint ventures must cost-share (matching funds) more than 50     
  percent of the total project costs (direct plus indirect costs).                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Funding for joint research and development ventures may be provided for no          
  more than five years. Funds for single company awards may not exceed three          
  years. The funds are released on an advance payment basis. Continued funding

  is contingent on satisfactory performance and availability of appropriated          
  funding from Congress.

Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly and annual technical progress and business reports are required.

Audits:                                                                               
  Audits of all recipients shall be conducted in accordance with Government           
  Auditing Standards (GAS), issued by the Comptroller General of the United           
  States (the Yellow Book). Other requirements are as follows: 1) For single          
  companies, the NIST Program-Specific Audit Guidelines for Advanced                  
  Technology Program (ATP) Cooperative Agreements with Single Companies,              
  issued by the DoC/OIG; 2) for joint venture recipients, the NIST Program-           
  Specific Audit Guidelines for Advanced Technology Program (ATP)                     
  Cooperative Agreements with Joint Ventures, issued by the DoC/OIG; and 3)           
  ATP recipients covered under OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of States,             
  Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," should have an audit               
  performed in accordance with the requirements of the OMB Circular. The              
  program-specific audit guidelines may be useful in identifying the allowability     
  of specific cost elements and other programmatic compliance. In accordance          
  with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27, 2003),            
  "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal      
  entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards     
  will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year.             
  Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 in Federal awards are exempt     
  from Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted in Circular No. A-    
  133.                                                                                
Records:                                                                              
  Documents, papers, and financial records are required to remain available to the    
  Federal government for 3 years from the date of submission of the final financial   


                                                                                 11-08
  status report. All financial and programmatic records, supporting documents,
  statistical reports, and other records of recipients are required to be maintained
  in accordance with the terms of the agreement.
Account Identification:
  13-0525-0-1-376.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not available; and
  FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Range: $434,000 to $31,000,000. Average: $2,900,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The ATP has made 768 awards since its first competition in 1990 - 218 to joint
  ventures and 550 to single companies. In fiscal year 2004, the ATP held a single
  competition open to all technology areas. ATP did not hold a competition in
  fiscal year 2005 and will not hold a competition in fiscal year 2006.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Implementing regulations are published at 15 CFR Part 295. The ATP Proposal
  Preparation Kit may be obtained by contacting the ATP toll-free "hotline"
  number (1-800) ATP-FUND or (1-800) 287-3863. The Kit is also available on
  the Internet on the ATP website www.atp.nist.gov. An electronic form for
  requesting general information from ATP and/or to have your name on the ATP
  mailing list is available at http//www.atp.nist.gov/atpform.htm. This program is
  subject to the provisions of 15 CFR Part 14.
Regional or Local Office:
  Advanced Technology Program, National Institute of Standards and Technology,
  100 Bureau Drive Stop 4701 Gaithersburg, MD 20899-4701. Telephone: (1-
  800) ATP-FUND. Fax: (301) 926-9524. E-mail: atp@nist.gov.
Headquarters Office:
  Barbara Lambis, Advanced Technology Program, National Institute of Standards
  and Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 4700, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-4700.
  Telephone: (301) 975-4447. Use the same number for FTS. FAX: (301) 869-
  1150. E-mail: barbara.lambis@nist.gov. To receive application kits, contact
  ATP customer service staff, at (1-800) ATP-FUND or E-mail: atp@nist.gov.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.atp.nist.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Printed wiring board manufacturing technology, flat panel display
  manufacturing, handwriting recognition, magnetoresistive random access
  memories, deep ultraviolet lasers, high temperature superconducting material
  processes, superconducting motors, stem cell expansion, viral inactivation,
  scalable high-density electronics, polymeric switches, nanocrystalline ceramics,
  polymer compatibilization, catalysis, biocatalysis, process chemistry,
  combinatorial methods, aquaculture, net-shaped ceramic processing, neural
  network controls, thermoplastic liquid composite molding, autonomous robots,
  digital image compression, software for managing complex healthcare data, and
  biochips for DNA diagnostics.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Scientific and Technological Merit and (2) Potential for Broad-Based
  Economic Benefits.
11.616 TECHNOLOGY INNOVATION PROGRAM (TIP)
   (TIP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Section 3012 of the America Creating Opportunities to Meaningfully Promote
  Excellence in Technology, Education, and Science (COMPETES) Act, Public
  Law 110-69 (August 9, 2007) 15 U.S.C.A. § 278n (2008).
OBJECTIVES:
  Technology Innovation Program (TIP), is a cost-shared federal financial
  assistance program to support, promote, and accelerate innovation in the United
  States through high-risk, high-reward research in areas of critical national need.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Single small or medium sized company recipients can receive up to a total of $3
  million in TIP funding for R and D activities spanning up to 3 years. TIP funds
  may only be used to pay direct costs. Single company recipients are responsible
  for funding all of their indirect/overhead costs. Small and medium sized
  companies applying as single company proposers must cost share at least 50
  percent of the yearly total project costs (direct plus all of the indirect costs). A
  large-sized company is not eligible to apply for TIP funding. Joint venture
  recipients can receive up to a total of $9 million for R and D activities spanning
  up to 5 years. TIP funds may only be used to pay direct costs. Joint ventures
  are responsible for funding all of their indirect/overhead costs. Joint ventures
                                                                                     249
