  must cost share at least 50 percent of the yearly total project costs (direct plus 
  all of the indirect costs). A Joint Venture is a business arrangement that         
  includes (1) At least two separately owned small-sized or medium-sized for-        
  profit companies that are both substantially involved in the project and both of   
  which are contributing to the cost-sharing requirement, with the lead entity of    
  the joint venture being an eligible company as defined in the TIP regulations      
  (15 CFR Part 296); or(2)at least one eligible company and one institution of       
  higher education or other organization,such as a national laboratory,              
  governmental laboratory (not including NIST), or nonprofit research institute,     
  that are both substantially involved in the project and both of which are          
  contributing to the cost haring requirement, with the lead entity of the joint     
  venture being either the eligible company or the institution of higher education.  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  A U.S.-owned, single, small-sized ormedium-sized company doing a majority          
  of its business in the UnitedStates or a joint venture may apply for TIP funding.  
  Members of jointventures that are companies must also be doing a majority of       
  their business in the United States. In addition, a company incorporated inthe     
  United States that has a parent company incorporated in another country may        
  apply as either a single applicant or a joint venture memberprovided that          
  certain requirements are met. Institutions of higher education, national           
  laboratories, governmental laboratories (not including NIST), and nonprofit        
  research institutions may also participate as a member of a joint venture.         
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  A U.S.-owned, single, small-sized or medium-sized company doing a majority of      
  its business in the United States or a joint venture may apply for TIP funding.    
  Members of joint ventures that are companies must also be doing a majority of      
  their business in the United States. In addition, a company incorporated in the    
  United States that has a parent company incorporated in another country may        
                                                                                     
  apply as either a single applicant or a joint venture member provided that certain

                                                                                     
  requirements are met. Institutions of higher education, national laboratories,

                                                                                     
  governmental laboratories (not including NIST), and nonprofit research

                                                                                     
  institutions may also participate as a member of a joint venture.

                                                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:

  Proposals with statements of work and detailed budgets. Costs will be              
  determined in accordance with applicable federal cost principles found in OMB

  Circular Nos. A-21 for institutions of higher education, A-122 for nonprofit       
  organizations, 48 C.F.R. 31 for commercial organizations, and 45 C.F.R. 74,

                                                                                     
  Appendix E for hospitals.

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                     
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                     
Application Procedure:

                                                                                     
  Proposals are submitted in response to formal competition announcements and

                                                                                     
  requests for proposals published in the Federal Register and Grants.gov.

                                                                                     
  Proposals must be prepared in accordance with the instructions in the TIP

                                                                                     
  Proposal Preparation Kit.

                                                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Competitive award process based upon published evaluation and award criteria.      
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines for proposal submissions are contained in the formal competition         
  announcements and requests for proposals published in the Federal Register and     
  Grants.gov.                                                                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Approximately 120 to 180 days.                                                     
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  TIP awards may be renewed within the statutory time limitation based on            
  satisfactory performance and availability of funds.                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Recipients must cost share at least 50 percent of the yearly total project costs   
  (direct plus all of the indirect costs).                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Single recipients may receive TIP funding for up to 3 years. Joint venture         
  recipients may receive funding for up to 5 years.                                  
Reports:                                                                             
  Quarterly technical performance, impact assessment, and financial reports.         
Audits:                                                                              
  Audits of all recipients shall be conducted in accordance with Government

                                                                                     
  Auditing Standards (GAS) issued by the Comptroller General of the United           
  States (the Yellow Book). TIP recipients covered under OMB Circular No. A-         
  133, Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations, should      
  have an audit performed in accordance with the requirements of the OMB             
  Circular.                                                                          
Records:                                                                             
  All financial and programmatic records are required to remain available to the     
  federal government for 3 years from the date of submission of the final financial  
  status report.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                              
  13-0525-0-1-376.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         


250                                                                            11-08

  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 08 est $9,000,000; FY 09 est not available; FY 10
  est not available.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  New program; therefore, no range and average available.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  New program; therefore, no accomplishments available.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Implementing regulations are published at 15 C.F.R. Part 296. The TIP Proposal
  Preparation Kit is available at www.nist.gov/tip/helpful.html . This program is
  also subject to the provisions of 15 C.F.R. Part 14.
Regional or Local Office:
  Technology Innovation Program, National Institute of Standards and
  Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 4701, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-4701.
  Telephone: 1 (888) 847-6478. Fax: (301) 926-9524. Email: tip@nist.gov .
Headquarters Office:
  Barbara Lambis, Technology Program, National Institute of Standards and
  Technology, 100 Bureau Drive, Stop 4700, Gaithersburg, MD 20899-4700.
  Telephone: (301) 975-4447. FAX: (301) 975-1150. Email:
  barbara.lambis@nist.gov . To have your name added to the TIP mailing list
  complete the electronic request at
  http://tipmailing.nist.gov/forms/mailing_list.cfm.
Web Site Address:
  www.nist.gov/tip .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  New program; therefore, none available.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Proposals are selected for funding based on the evaluation criteria listed in 15
  C.F.R. § 296.21 and the award criteria listed in 15 C.F.R. § 296.22.
  Additionally, no proposal will be funded unless TIP determines that it has
  scientific and technical merit and that the proposed research has strong potential
  for addressing a societal challenge within the TIP-identified areas of critical
  national need.
11.617 CONGRESSIONALLY-IDENTIFIED PROJECTS
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF STANDARDS AND TECHNOLOGY,
  DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Science, State, Justice, Commerce, and Related Agencies Appropriations Act.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist various organizations identified by Congress to achieve objectives
  specified by Congress.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance is provided to implement specific projects identified by Congress.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Organizations specifically identified by Congress in agency appropriations
  legislation.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries are those served by the organizations receiving awards.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplications are not required. This program is excluded from coverage under
  E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Submit all standard forms (SF-424 Series Forms), project proposal and budget
  following the format specified by the Department of Commerce.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are reviewed by NIST and awards are issued by the Grants and
  Agreements Management Division.
Deadlines:
  None. However, to ensure processing during the fiscal year that funds are
  appropriated, applications should be submitted to NIST by June 30.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Renewals are contingent upon future Congressional funding.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula or matching requirements, except when
  specified by Congress.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Financial and progress reports are to be submitted in accordance with the terms
