  www.nist.gov.                                                                       
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Proposals are selected for funding based on the evaluation criteria published in    
  the Federal Register and Grants.gov notices.                                        
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
11.650 NATIONAL TECHNICAL INFORMATION SERVICE                                         
      (NTIS)                                                                          
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  NATIONAL TECHNICAL INFORMATION SERVICE, DEPARTMENT OF                               
  COMMERCE                                                                            
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Research and Technical Services Act, Public Law 81-776, 15 U.S.C. 1151-1157,        
  3710; Omnibus Trade and Competitiveness Act of 1988, Public Law 100-418;            
  National Institute of Standards and Technology Authorization Act, Title II,         
  Subtitle B; National Technical Information Act of 1988, Public Law 100-519,         
  15 U.S.C. 3704; American Technology Preeminence Act of 1991, Public Law             
  102-245.                                                                            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide products and services designed to increase the flow of technical         
  information and technology into the world marketplace. To serve as a principal      
  source for the public sale of U.S. Government-sponsored scientific, engineering     
  and technical information products, related business information, research in       
  progress information, machine-processed data files, computer software, and to       
  serve the information dissemination needs of the Federal Government.                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Dissemination of Technical Information.                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Provides an extensive inventory of over 3,000,000 information products, of          
  which approximately 2,500,000 are under computerized inventory control.             
  Customers may quickly locate summaries of interest using public vendor online       
  systems, NTIS Catalogs, or by referring to NTIS' web site, www.ntis.gov. NTIS       
  is a permanent archive of information on research conducted or sponsored by the     
  U.S. government. With over 3,000,000 titles, NTIS is the nation's largest           
  collection of scientific, technical, engineering and related business information   
  produced by or for hundreds of government agencies and complementary                
  materials from international sources. NTIS maintains an extensive, user-friendly    
  website, www.ntis.gov in which individuals can browse, search and retrieve full     
  text reports, downloading from the NTIS site or ordering from NTIS in a variety     
  of formats. In addition, NTIS acts as a point of entry for key online services

  providing important business information, such as export regulations, research      
  in progress and international news. See NTIS' Homeland Security Information         
  Center website www.ntis.gov/hs. This is the place to go to get information

  products related to Homeland Security, especially in the areas of health and        
  medicine, food and agriculture, biological and chemical warfare, preparedness

  and response, and safety training. NTIS is also the home of the National            
  Audiovisual Center, www.ntis.gov/nac. The center offers more than 9,000 tittes      
  in a range of subjects as varied as the 200 agencies that produce them -- subjects  
  like business, education and training, firefighting, health and safety, languages,  
  law enforcement, personal enrichment, entertainment as well as training             
  materials.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Any United States and most foreign organizations or individuals are eligible to     
  purchase NTIS products and services.                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Any United States and most foreign organizations or individuals.                    
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Payment options available for all products and services.                            
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                      
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Write NTIS, 5285 Port Royal Road, Springfield, VA 22161, for information            
  concerning products and services ask for NTIS PR-827.                               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  None.                                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:



252                                                                             11-08

  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Not applicable.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  13-4295-0-3-376.
Obligations:
  (NTIS Revolving Fund) FY 07 $41,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09
  est not reported. Normal operating costs are funded through the sale of NTIS
  products and services.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  NTIS has over 3,000,000 scientific, technical, and engineering reports
  permanently available for sale. Each report added to the collection is abstracted,
  catalogued, and indexed so that it can be identified and merged into the
  permanent bibliographic database for future generations of researchers and the
  public-at-large who may benefit from this valuable research and innovations.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  NTIS descriptive brochures, and product and service brochures are available on
  request.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Ellen Herbst(Director), 5285 Port Royal Road, Room 1014 Sills, Springfield,
  VA 22161. Telephone: (703) 605-6400. Sales Division: Telephone: 1-800-553-
  6847 or E-mail: info@ntis.gov (for Placing orders and for information on NTIS
  products and services).
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ntis.gov.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.603, National Standard Reference Data System; 11.604, Standard Reference
  Materials; 11.900, Patent and Trademark Technical Information Dissemination;
  39.009, Federal Citizen Information Center; 40.001, Depository Libraries for
  Government Publications; 40.002, Government Publications Sales and
  Distribution; 42.007, Reference Services in Science, Technology and Business;
  43.002, Technology Transfer; 81.003, Granting of Patent Licenses.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
11.702 INTERNSHIP PROGRAM FOR POSTSECONDARY
STUDENTS
   (Postsecondary Internship Program)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY, DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  5 U.S.C. 7201.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide college students interested in future Federal employment with
  experiential learning opportunities related to their academic studies. Students
  must be U.S. citizens enrolled in colleges or universities (to include graduate and
  law shools). The educational institution must be accredited by an organization
  recognized by the U.S. Department of Education. No employment relationship
  is created between the government and the student by virtue of participation in
  this program.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Selected institutions will perform the following functions: Outreach and
  recruitment, application process and referral, selection notification and follow
  up, logistics, including temporary housing and accommodations, orientation and
  communication, enrichment activities program, intern personnel and pay
  administration, intern supervision, intern monitoring, intern evaluation, program
  evaluation, and evaluation reporting. The number of available internships will
  vary depending upon the financial position of the potential host offices and
  bureaus. Student opportunities will be primarily located in the Washington,DC
  metropolitan area; however a limited number of opportunities may exist outside
  of the area.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Accredited universities and colleges (2- year, 4-year, graduate and law schools)
  and nonprofit organizations are eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Postsecondary educational students who wish to have experiential training at the
