  Department of Commerce. Students may be assigned to work in Federal               
  agencies other than DOC.                                                          
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  An applicant should propose an intern program design that represents a            
  comprehensive approach to a work-study experience and its own philosophy          
  about workforce preparedness. For the purposes of the proposal, plans and         
  budgets should be presented separately for the summer and academic year           
  sessions. Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21       
  for institutions of higher education and with Circular No. A-122 for nonprofit

  organizations.                                                                    
Preapplication Coordination:

  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                          
Application Procedure:

  A standard application package is required. This includes SF-424, SF-424A, SF-    
  424B, CD-511, CD-346, SF-LLL (if applicable), Project Plans, and Budgets.         
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  A notice of availability of funding will be published in the Federal Register and 
  on Grants.gov website. Each responsive application will receive an independent,   
  objective review by a panel qualified to evaluate the applications submitted.     
  The final decision on awards will be based upon the numerical review panel        
  ranking, availability of funding, and Selecting Official's determination of which 
  proposals best meet the objectives of the program, specifically related to        
  ensuring who will best reach the targeted audience of intern candidates.          
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Contact the information contact for application deadlines.                        
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  Applicants should be notified of approval or disapproval within 120 days from     
  deadline date.                                                                    
Appeals:                                                                            
  None.                                                                             
Renewals:                                                                           
  If an application is selected for funding, DOC has no obligation to provide any   
  additional future funding in connection with that award. Renewal of an award      
  to increase funding or extend the period of performance is at the total discretion
  of DOC.                                                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula.                                            
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  The award period for the internship project will be 3 years and three months.     
  Funding will be provided annually at the discretion of the DOC and will depend    
  upon satisfactory performance by the recipient and availability of funds for the  
  DOC to continue funding the project.                                              
Reports:                                                                            
  Department of Commerce Standard Terms and Conditions require performance          
  and financial reports to be submitted semi-annually. Final reports will be due    
  within 90 days of award expiration.                                               
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003); Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations;      
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in       
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in Circular No. A-133.                                                            
Records:                                                                            
  Records will be retained in accordance with provisions of OMB Circular No. A-     
  110 for institutions of higher education and other nonprofit organizations.       
Account Identification:                                                             
  13-0120-0-1-376.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $1,270,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY        
  09 est not reported.                                                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $196,209 to $513,550; $288,898.                                                   
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In 2005, 110 students received internships. It is anticipated that a similar      
  number of students will receive internships in fiscal years 2006 and 2007.        
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  15 CFR Part 14.                                                                   
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Ms. Cynthia Brice, Office of Human Resources Management, Department of            
  Commerce, Washington, DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-6402. Beverly                
  Manley, Office of Acquistion Management and Financial Assistance,                 
  Department of Commerce, Washington, DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-1370.          
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Office of Human Resources Management, Department of Commerce,                     
  Washington, DC 20230.                                                             
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.ohrm.os.doc.gov/Career/PROD01_000871.html                              
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  None.

                                                                               11-08
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Project activities are designed to give college students an opportunity to gain
  experience in public service that will foster future employment in Federal
  government agencies or public service in general.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  The following criteria will be used to evaluate applications: Quality of Program
  Plan, Proposed Costs, Key Personnel Qualifications, and Capabilities of the
  applicant Organization.
11.800 MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE CENTERS
   (MBDC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Executive Order 11625, October 13, 1971; Department of Commerce and
  Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Public Law 105-277.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide electronic and one-on-one business development services for a
  nominal fee to minority firms and individuals interested in entering, expanding
  or improving their efforts in the marketplace. MBDA's funded Minority
  Business Enterprise Center operators provide a wide range of services to clients,
  from initial consultations to the identification and resolution of specific business
  problems.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) competitively solicits
  and will fund in Fiscal Year 2007 twenty-six MBEC's to provide standardized
  business assistance services to rapid growth potential minority businesses
  directly; to develop a network of strategic partnerships; to charge client fees; and
  to provide strategic business consulting through one-on-one management and
  technical assistance in designated states and/or Metropolitan Statistical Areas
  (MSA) throughout the country. Recipients of MBDA's MBEC financial
  assistance awards provide clients with advice and counseling in such areas
  business assessment and strategic business consulting, access to capital and
  access to markets. These services may include preparing financial packages,
  business planning and counseling, business information and management
  assistance, accounting, marketing, business/industrial site analysis, production,
  engineering, construction assistance, procurement, and identification of potential
  business opportunities. MBDA does not have the authority nor does it make
  loans to minority businesses. Program funds in this category are restricted to
  providing management and technical assistance.
Applicant Eligibility:
  There are no eligibility restrictions for this program. Applicants eligible to
  operate a MBDC may include individuals, nonprofit organizations, for-profit
  firms, local and State governments, Native American Tribes, and educational
  institutions.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Recipient operators are to provide electronic and one-on-one business assistance
  to rapid growth potential minority-owned businesses. Eligible beneficiaries of
  this program have been designated as African American, Native American,
  Aleut, Asian Indian, Asian Pacific American, Eskimo, Hasidic Jew, Puerto
  Rican, and Spanish-Speaking Americans.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for awards
  to State, local and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments; OMB
  Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions; OMB Circular No. A-122 for
  other recipients; and 15 CFR Part 24 contains administrative requirements for
  States, local and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments. All other
  recipients are subject to the administrative requirements contained in OMB
  Circular No. A-110.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Pre-application and post award conferences will be scheduled for most MBDA
  projects. These conferences will be announced in the Federal Register. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by 15 CFR Part 24 must be used for this program. This program is subject to the
  provisions of 15 CFR Part 14.
Award Procedure:
  The Federal Register and Grants.Gov will advise the applicant where to submit
  the application. Each application will be reviewed and evaluated by MBDA.
  Name checks, verification of academic credentials and post-award audits may be
  required from applicants.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines for formal competitive awards are outlined in the Federal Register,
  Grants.gov, and as detailed in the Federal Funding Opportunity Announcement.
                                                                                     253
