Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                 
  From four to six months. Unsuccessful applicants shall be notified in writing     
  within ten days of notification to the successful applicant.                      
Appeals:                                                                            
  All decisions are final. There is no administrative appeal process.               
Renewals:                                                                           
  MBEC awards are typically made for a period of three years with funding           
  provided on an annual basis at the discretion of MBDA and the Department of       
  Commerce. Performance evaluations will be conducted and funding levels will

  be established for each of the budget periods. The MBEC will receive continued

  funding after the initial competitive year at the discretion of MBDA based upon

                                                                                    
  the availability of funds, the MBEC's performance, and agency priorities. The     
  current funding cycle (2004 - 2006) will terminate December 31, 2006. The         
  next formal competition is tentatively scheduled for the Summer of 2006 with

  new awards beginning in January 2007.                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula. In most program areas, MBDA has            
  established minimum requirements for matching or cost sharing by the recipient.   
  New awards are generally required to provide a minimum 15 percent cost            
  sharing through in-kind contributions and cash, including client service fees.    
  MBDA reserves the right to decide on a case-by-case basis whether a nonfederal    
  contribution is required in other program areas so as to successfully implement   
  the program.                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Awards may be granted for one to three years.                                     
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial (quarterly and annually); program narrative reports (semi-annual and    
  annual); statistical reports on each client are required.                         
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (June 27, 2003),      
  Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations shall be        
  subject to the audit requirements contained in the Single Audit Act Amendments    
  of l996 (31 U.S.C. 7501-7507). Commercial organizations shall be subject to       
  the audit requirements as stipulated in the award document. In accordance with    
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, (Revised, June 27, 2003), Audits of     
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations, nonfederal entities      
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal Awards will       
  have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal     
  entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from  
  Federal audit requirements for the year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.   
Records:                                                                            
  Documents, papers, and financial records relating to the MBEC are required to     
  remain available to the Federal Government for 3 years from the date of           
  submission of the final financial status report. All financial and programmatic   
  records, supporting documents, statistical reports, and other records of grantees 
  or subgrantees are required to be maintained by the terms of the agreement. The   
  grantee must retain records for 3 years after completion of the project or        
  submission of the final financial report, whichever is later, and be readily      
  available for inspection and audit.                                               
Account Identification:                                                             
  13-0201-0-1-376.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $8,400,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY        
  09 est not reported.                                                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $155,000 to $400,375.                                                             
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  MBDA estimates in calendar years 2006 and 2007, the MBEC program will             
  assist 4,254 clients and achieve a minimum of $614,269,965 in combined            
  financings and contracts respectively.                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  There are no applicable regulations in the Code of Federal Regulations (CFR).

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Contact the nearest Minority Business Development Agency Regional Office

                                                                                    
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                    
  Office of Business Development, Minority Business Development Agency,

                                                                                    
  Department of Commerce, 14th and Constitution Avenue, NW., Washington,

                                                                                    
  DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-1940. Use the same number for FTS.

                                                                                    
Web Site Address:

                                                                                    
  http://www.mbda.gov.

                                                                                    
RELATED PROGRAMS:

                                                                                    
  11.303, Economic Development_Technical Assistance; 11.801, Native

                                                                                    
  American Business Enterprise Centers; 11.803, Minority Business Opportunity

                                                                                    
  Center (MBOC); 15.850, Indian Arts and Crafts Development; 39.001, Business

                                                                                    
  Services; 59.005, Internet-Based Technical Assistance; 59.006, 8(a) Business

                                                                                    
  Development Program; 59.007, 7(j) Technical Assistance; 59.009, Procurement

                                                                                    
  Assistance to Small Businesses.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    


254                                                                           11-08

CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Competitive awards for the MBDC program are made based on a panel
  evaluation of the applications submitted. This evaluation includes such factors
  as capability and experience of staff assigned to the project, techniques,
  methodology, resources and costs. MBDA publishes notices in the Federal
  Register, Grants.gov website and the MBDA website when seeking applications
  for this program. Competitive applications are normally sought every three
  years, upon the availability of funds and depending on the Agency's priorities.
11.801 NATIVE AMERICAN BUSINESS ENTERPRISE
CENTERS
   (NABEC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Executive Order 11625, October 13, 1971; Department of Commerce and
  Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Public Law 105-277.
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide electronic and one-on-one business development service to Native
  Americans interested in entering, expanding or improving their efforts in the
  marketplace. MBDA's Native American Business Enterprise Center operators
  provide a wide range of services to clients, from initial consultations to the
  identification and resolution of specific business problems.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Minority Business Development Agency (MBDA) competitively selects and
  will fund in Fiscal Year 2007 approximately eight Native American Business
  Enterprise Centers (NABDC's) to deploy standardized business assistance
  services to the Native American business public directly, develop a network of
  strategic partnerships and provide strategic business consulting within the
  geographic services area. Recipients of MBDA's NABEC financial assistance
  awards provide clients with advice and counseling in such areas as business
  assessment and strategic business consulting, access to capital and access to
  markets. These services may include preparing financial packages, business
  counseling, business information and management, accounting guidance,
  marketing, business/industrial site analysis, production, engineering,
  construction assistance, procurement and identification of potential business
  opportunities. MBDA does not have the authority nor does it make loans to
  Native American firms. Program funds are restricted to providing management
  and technical assistance.
Applicant Eligibility:
  There are no eligibility restrictions for this program. Applicants eligible to
  operate a NABEC may include individuals, nonprofit organizations, for-profit
  firms, local and State governments, Native American Tribes, and educational
  institutions.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Native Americans and minorities will benefit. Award recipients must provide
  assistance to Native Americans and minorities interested in starting, expanding,
  or maintaining a business. Assistance emphasis is on Native Americans.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87 for awards
  to States, local governments and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal
  Governments. OMB Circular No. A-21 for educational institutions; OMB
  Circular No. A-122 will be used for other recipients. Administrative
  requirements for States, local governments and Federally Recognized Indian
  Tribal Governments are contained in 15 CFR, Part 24. All other recipients are
  subject to the administrative requirements contained in 15 CFR Part 14.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Preapplication and post award conferences may be scheduled for NABEC
  projects. The conferences will be announced in the Federal Register. This
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Federal agency and required
  by 15 CFR Part 24 must be used for this program. This program is subject to the
  provisions of 15 CFR Part 14.
Award Procedure:
  The Federal Register and Grants.Gov will advise the applicant where to submit
  the application. Each application will be reviewed and evaluated by MBDA.
  Name checks, verification of academic credentials and pre-award audits may be
  required from applicants.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines for formal competitive awards are outlined in the Federal Register,
  Grants.Gov and as detailed in the Federal Funding Opportunity Announcement.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 4 to 6 months. Unsuccessful applicants shall be notified in writing within
  10 days of notification to the successful applicant.
