Appeals:                                                                            
  All decisions are final. There is no administrative appeal process.               
Renewals:                                                                           
  NABEC awards are typically made for a period of 3 years with funding provided     
  on an annual basis at the discretion of MBDA and the Department of

  Commerce. Performance evaluations will be conducted, and funding levels will

  be established for each of three budget periods. The NABEC recipient will

                                                                                    
  receive continued funding after the initial competitive year at the discretion of 
  MBDA based upon the availability of funds, the NABDC's performance, and           
  agency priorities. The current cycle (2004 - 2006) of projects will terminate on  
  December 31, 2006. The next formal competition is tentatively scheduled for the   
  Summer of 2006 with new awards beginning in January 2007.                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  This program has no statutory formula. The Native American Program currently      
  does not require any matching or cost-sharing by the recipient.                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  Awards may be granted for 1 to 3 years.                                           
Reports:                                                                            
  Financial (quarterly and annually); program narrative reports (semi-annual and    
  annual); statistical reports on each client are required.                         
Audits:                                                                             
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June        
  27, 2003), Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,      
  non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in      
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that  
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal        
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted  
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.                                                        
Records:                                                                            
  Documents, papers and financial records relating to the NABEC are required to     
  remain available to the Federal Government for 3 years from the date of           
  submission of the final financial status report. All financial and programmatic   
  records, supporting documents, statistical reports, and other records of grantees 
  or subgrantees are required to be maintained by the terms of the agreement. The   
  grantee must retain records for 3 years after completion of the project or        
  submission of the final financial report, whichever is later, and be readily      
  available for inspection and audit.                                               
Account Identification:                                                             
  13-0201-0-1-376.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $1,591,500; FY 08 est not available; and FY        
  09 est not reported.                                                              
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  $155,500 to $287,500.

                                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  In calendar year 2005, MBDA funded Native American Business Enterprise

                                                                                    
  Centers in eight locations throughout the United States to provide management

                                                                                    
  and technical assistance to minority and Native American Business Enterprise

                                                                                    
  Center clients. A total of 742 clients were assisted and obtained $315,375,112 in

                                                                                    
  combined financings and contracts. In 2006 and 2007, we estimate that the

                                                                                    
  NABECs will assist 1229 clients and obtain $117,776,442 in combined

                                                                                    
  financings and contracts.

                                                                                    
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                    
  There are no applicable regulations in the Code of Federal Regulations.

                                                                                    
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                    
  Contact the nearest Minority Business Development Agency Regional Office

                                                                                    
  listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.

                                                                                    
Headquarters Office:

                                                                                    
  Office of Business Development, Minority Business Development Agency,

                                                                                    
  Department of Commerce, 14th and Constitution Avenue, N.W., Washington,

                                                                                    
  DC 20230. Telephone: (202) 482-1940. Use the same number for FTS.

                                                                                    
Web Site Address:

                                                                                    
  http://www.mbda.gov.

RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  11.303, Economic Development_Technical Assistance; 11.800, Minority               
  Business Enterprise Centers; 11.803, Minority Business Opportunity Center         
  (MBOC); 15.850, Indian Arts and Crafts Development; 39.001, Business              
  Services; 59.005, Internet-Based Technical Assistance; 59.006, 8(a) Business      
                                                                                    
  Development Program; 59.007, 7(j) Technical Assistance; 59.009, Procurement

                                                                                    
  Assistance to Small Businesses.

                                                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                    
  In FY 2004, an organization was awarded $235,000 in federal funds to operate a

                                                                                    
  NABDC. It delivered one-to-one management and technical assistance to

                                                                                    
  eligible minority and Native American business clients to develop business plans

                                                                                    
  and promote the development and operation of businesses. NABDC program

                                                                                    
  funding is not designed for the financing of individual businesses.

                                                                                    
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                    
  Competitive awards for the NABDC are made based upon a panel evaluation of

                                                                                    
  the applications submitted. This evaluation includes such factors as capability

                                                                                    
  and experience of staff assigned to the project, techniques, methodology,

                                                                                    


                                                                              11-08 
  resources and costs. MBDA publishes notices in the Federal Register,
  Grants.Gov website and the MBDA website when seeking applications for this
  program. Competitive applications are normally sought very three years, upon
  the availability of funds and depending on the Agency's priorities.
11.803 MINORITY BUSINESS OPPORTUNITY CENTER
(MBOC)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  MINORITY BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF
  COMMERCE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Department of Commerce and Related Agencies Appropriations Act, Executive
  Order 11625, Public Law 105-277.
OBJECTIVES:
  To promote access to key decision makers in the public and private sectors ,
  facilitate the brokering of contracts and financial transactions, and identify and
  coordinate local business resources to benefit minority business entrepreneurs.
  Facilitate business opportunities for minority businesses through the utilization
  of public and private sector organizations that provide minority business
  owners/individuals with enhanced access to the marketplace by identifying and
  brokering procurement and contract awards, marketing and sales opportunities,
  financing transactions and potential joint ventures or merger and acquisitions;
  by promoting relationship building and sharing of business information between
  organizations in a geographic service area; by conducting media outreach, by
  disseminating economic data, by sponsoring workshops, conferences and
  seminars within service area; and by maintaining inventories of resources such
  as bid opportunities, sources of debt and equity funds, business ownership
  possibilities such as franchises, and prospective joint venture partners.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds will be used in support of the MBDA policy statement on funding
  business development programs. Minority Business Development Agency
  (MBDA) is charged under Executive Order 11625 with fostering new minority
  business enterprises and maintaining and strengthening existing firms to
  increase their opportunities to participate and receive the benefits of our
  economic system. MBDA uses a portion of its program funds to award
  contracts, grants, and cooperative agreements to public and private sector
  entities which have the greatest potential for developing access to capital,
  market, and other opportunities on behalf of minority business. The performance
  of each funded recipient is evaluated on a scheduled basis. Renewals are based
  on Agency priorities, funding availability, and performance of recipients.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants for this program are Federal, State or local government entities or
  quasi governmental entities, American Indian Tribes, colleges, universities,
  nonprofit organizations, and for project organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Client/Beneficiaries of this program are minority business persons/firms.
  Eligible client/ beneficiaries of this program have been designated as African
  American, Native American, Aleut, Asian Indian, Asian Pacific American,
  Eskimo, Hasidic Jew, Puerto Rican, and Spanish- Speaking Americans.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-87 for
  awards to State, local and Federally Recognized Indian Tribal Governments; A-
  21, Cost Principles For Educational Institutions; and A-122 for other recipients.
  Administrative requirements are found in 15 CFR Part 24 for State and Local
  governments and Indian tribes and all others are at 15 CFR Part 14.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A pre-application conference may be scheduled for recipients of these awards.
  Conferences will be announced in the Federal Register. This program is
  excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms as furnished by the Department of Commerce
  must be used for this program. Recipients are subject to the administrative
  requirements contained in 15 CFR Part 14 or 15 CFR Part 24.
Award Procedure:
  The application package will advise the applicant where pre-award audits may
  be required from applicants.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines for formal competitive awards are outlined in the Federal Register,
  Grants.gov and as detailed in the Federal Funding Opportunity Announcement.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From approximately four to six months after closing date for submission of
  applications. Successful and unsuccessful applicants shall be notified in writing
  at the same time.
Appeals:
  All decisions are final. There are no administrative appeals.
Renewals:
  Minority Business Opportunity Center (MBOC) awards may be made for a
                                                                                   255
