                                                          DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE

12.002 PROCUREMENT TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR                                            
                                                                                       
BUSINESS FIRMS

                                                                                       
  (Procurement Technical Assistance (PTA) Cooperative Agreement                        
  Program)                                                                             
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  DEFENSE LOGISTICS AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                                      
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  Public Law 98-525, as amended, Title 10, Chapter 142, as amended, Section            
  2411.                                                                                
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To increase assistance by the DoD for eligible entities furnishing PTA to            
  business entities, and to assist eligible entities in the payment of the costs of    
  establishing and carrying out new PTA Programs and maintaining existing PTA          
  Programs.                                                                            
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                             
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  The purpose of the PTA Cooperative Agreement Program is to generate                  
  employment and to improve the general economy of a locality by assisting             
  business firms in obtaining and performing under Federal, State and local            
  government contracts. Recipients are to provide marketing and technical              
  assistance to business firms in selling their goods and services to the Department   
  of Defense (DoD), other Federal agencies, and State and local governments. The       
  DoD cost-share will not exceed 50 percent of the net cost of a single PTA            
  Program, excluding any Federal funds and other income. The DoD share may be          
  increased up to 75 percent for an existing program or new start program that         
  qualifies solely as servicing a distressed area. In no event, shall the DoD share of 
  the net program cost exceed $150,000 for a program providing less than               
  statewide coverage, or $300,000 in the case of a statewide program or a program      
  providing multi-area coverage (Indian Program).                                      
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Existing or new start PTA Programs established by State and local governments,       
  private nonprofit organizations, American Indian tribal organizations, and           
  American Indian economic enterprises (nonprofit and for-profit).                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Existing or new start PTA Programs established by State and local governments,       
  private nonprofit organizations, American Indian tribal organizations, and           
  American Indian economic enterprises (nonprofit and for-profit).                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-21, "Cost             
  Principles for Educational Institutions," and OMB Circular No. A-122, "Cost          
  Principles for Nonprofit Organizations."                                             
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental           
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information   
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the  
  State has selected the program for review.                                           
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  This program is subject to the provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-102 and A-          
  110.                                                                                 
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  All State and local governments, eligible private nonprofit organizations,           
  American Indian tribal organizations and American Indian economic enterprises        
  (nonprofit and for-profit), including those which have cooperative agreements        
  with the Defense Logistics Agency (DLA), can submit applications for                 
  participation in the DoD cost-sharing cooperative agreement program in               
  accordance with the Solicitation for Cooperative Agreement Applications              
  (SCAA). If selected for an award, the applicant is bound to perform the services     
  described in its application, when the application is incorporated into the          
  cooperative agreement award document. Cooperative agreements will be                 
  awarded on a competitive basis consistent with the SCAA.                             
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Please contact the program contact listed in the Information Contacts or             
  Headquarters Office section below.                                                   
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  From 120 to 160 calendar days after the solicitation closes.                         
Appeals:                                                                               
  A written objection "protest," by an interested party to SCAA may be made,           
  concerning a proposed award of a cooperative agreement or the award of an            
  agreement. The protest is filed with the applicable Grants Officer. The              
  subsequent decision of the Grants Officer shall be final unless the recipient        
  appeals the decision to the Headquarters, DLA PTA Cooperative Agreement              
  Program Policy Committee. The Policy Committee is the final administrative           
  appeal authority for disputes and protests.                                          
                                                                                       
258                                                                              11-08

Renewals:
  Cooperative agreements will be awarded for a base year (FY 96), or a base year
  with one option period (FY 96 through FY 97), or a base year with two option
  periods (FY 96 through FY 98) of twelve months each. Awards are based on
  competitive evaluation of the applications submitted in response to the SCAA.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Public Law 98-525, as amended; Chapter 142, 10 U.S.C., Section 2411,
  Procurement Technical Assistance Program, requires the use of annual DoD
  appropriations. The DoD share shall not exceed 50 percent of the net program
  cost of a single PTA Program, excluding any Federal funds and other income.
  The DoD share may be increased up to 75 percent for an existing or a new start
  program that qualifies solely as a distressed area. In no event shall the DoD
  share of the net program cost exceed $150,000 for programs providing less than
  statewide (general program) or multi-area coverage (Indian program), or
  $300,000 in the case of those programs providing statewide or providing multi-
  area coverage.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Twelve months from the beginning of the performance period. Recipients may
  submit requests for reimbursement of the Government's share of total costs
  incurred to the Administrative Grants/Contract Officer at the appropriate post
  award administration activity on a periodic basis, but not more often than
  monthly. Recipients are required to furnish a final reimbursement request for
  services rendered within 90 days after the expiration date of the cooperative
  agreement.
Reports:
  Recipients are required to submit quarterly reports (DLA Form 1806) not later
  than 30 calendar days after the end of each quarter to the Administrative Grants
  Officer at the cognizant post award administration activity. Reports are to
  include, as a minimum, the following information: Budgeted versus actual
  expenditures; goals versus performance against goals; problems encountered in
  implementing the program; and problems encountered by clients in the
  performance of government contracts which cannot be resolved by the recipient.
  A final report using the same format as the quarterly report is to be prepared and
  submitted not later than 90 days after the expiration date of the cooperative
  agreement.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recipients are required to maintain records adequate to reflect the nature and
  extent of their costs and expenditures and to insure that the required cost of
  participation is achieved. Records must be maintained for 3 years following the
  date of submittal of a final reimbursement request for services rendered.
Account Identification:
  97-0100-0-1-051.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 est not available; FY 08 est not reported; and
  FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $30,000 to $300,000. Average: $160,185.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  For fiscal year 2002, it is anticipated that approximately 115 applications will be
  received and 66 agreements will be awarded.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations, Guidelines, and Literature: Title 10, U.S.C., Chapter 142, as
  amended, "Procurement Technical Assistance Cooperative Agreement Program;"
  DLA Regulation 9040.2, "Cooperative Agreement Program;" and Cooperative
  Agreement Revised Procedures published in the Federal Register March 5, 1996.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  Defense Logistics Agency, Office of Small and Disadvantaged Business
  Utilization (DDAS), 8725 John J. Kingman Road, Suite 2533, Fort Belvoir, VA
  22060-6221. Telephone (703) 767-1650. FTS is not available.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.d/a.mil/ddas.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None available at this time.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Applications are competitively evaluated and awarded. They are evaluated on
  the likelihood of achieving the stated program objectives, considering past
