  performance (existing programs), Management, technical, qualifications,            
  services area (geographic and demographic), and cost realism. In the event that    
  insufficient funds are available to award all applicants that meet the minimum     
  requirements of the SCAA, only those applicants found to be the most               
  meritorious will be funded for an award.                                           
                                                                                     
                                                                                     
12.100 AQUATIC PLANT CONTROL                                                         
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY,                          
  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  River and Harbor Act of 1958, as amended, Section 104.                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide for the cooperation of the Army Corps of Engineers with State and       
  local government agencies in the control of obnoxious aquatic plants in rivers,

  harbors, and allied waters.                                                        
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

  Provision of Specialized Services; Dissemination of Technical Information.         
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

  To supply Federal assistance for the control and eradication of obnoxious          
  aquatic plants in rivers, harbors and allied waters. Nonfederal interests must     
  agree to hold the government of the United States free from damages and to         
  finance 50 percent of the costs of control operations. The program is designed to  
  deal primarily with weed infestations of major economic significance including     
  such weeds as water hyacinth, alligatorweed, hydrilla, elodea, and watermilfoil.   
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  States and their political subdivisions or instrumentalities.                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  States and their political subdivisions or instrumentalities.                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Letters of intent from applicants to cost-share, as required by law, for control   
  operations. Cost will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87       
  for State and local governments.                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  Cooperative action of local, State, Federal and other interests in support of the  
  project. This program requires development of environmental documents to           
  comply with the National Environmental Policy Act (Public Law 91-190). This        
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review       
  of Federal Programs". An applicant should consult the office or official           
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information 
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.                                         
Application Procedure:                                                               
  A letter to the District Engineer at the nearest U.S. Army Corps of Engineers      
  District Office, requesting a reconnaissance study of the problem.                 
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Preparation, approval and budget of a plan for control of problem aquatic plants.  
Deadlines:                                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 6 to 18 months.                                                               
Appeals:                                                                             
  There are no appeals procedures as such. The reasons for refusal will be fully     
  stated. If reconsideration is desired, the applicant should make the changes as    
  appropriate to the situation.                                                      
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  Fifty percent of the cost of developing a plan for control and fifty percent of the
  cost of control operations must be obtained from local and State resources.        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Reports:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Audits:                                                                              
  Audit Office. This program is subject to the requirements of OMB Circular No.      
  A-133.                                                                             
Records:                                                                             
  District Engineer.                                                                 
Account Identification:                                                              
  96-3125-0-1-301.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Salaries and expenses) FY 07 est not reported; FY 08 est not reported; and FY     
  09 est not reported.                                                               
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  Not reported.                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Engineer Regulation 1130- 2-412 (33 U.S.C. 273) and information about the          
                                                                                11-08
  program are available from the District Engineer.
Regional or Local Office:
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the office of the nearest U.S. Army
  District Engineer listed in Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Headquarters Office:
  Commander, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Attn: CECW-ON, Washington, DC
  20314-1000. Telephone: (202) 272-0247. FTS is not available.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usace.army.mil/business.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  10.025, Plant and Animal Disease, Pest Control, and Animal Care.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
12.101 BEACH EROSION CONTROL PROJECTS
   (Small Beach Erosion Control Projects)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS, DEPARTMENT OF ARMY,
  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION:
  River and Harbor Act of 1962, Section 103, as amended, Public Law 87-874, 33
  U.S.C. 426g.
OBJECTIVES:
  To control beach and shore erosion to public shores through projects not
  specifically authorized by Congress.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Provision of Specialized Services.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Corps of Engineers designs and constructs the project. Each project selected
  must be engineering feasible, complete within itself, and economically justified.
  The nonfederal sponsoring agency must agree to: (1) Share equally in cash and
  in-kind services for feasibility studies; (2) share in the cost of the project,
  including a cash contribution, providing the necessary lands, easements, right-
  of-way, and relocations required for the project; (3) assume full responsibility
  for all project costs in excess of the Federal cost limit of $2,000,000; (4) hold
  and save the United States free from damages; (5) assure that water pollution
  that would affect the health of bathers will not be permitted; (6) assure continued
  public ownership or public use of the beach, and its administration for public
  use; (7) provide project maintenance; and (8) provide and maintain necessary
  access roads, parking areas and other public use facilities open and available to
  all on equal terms.
Applicant Eligibility:
  States, political subdivisions of States or other responsible local agencies
  established under State law with full authority and ability to undertake necessary
  legal and financial responsibilities.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States, political subdivisions of States or other responsible local agencies
  established under State law with full authority and ability to undertake necessary
  legal and financial responsibilities.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must furnish evidence of legal authorization, financial capability, and
  willingness to provide all necessary local participation and required cooperation.
Preapplication Coordination:
  State or local government officials should consult the nearest District Engineer
  regarding specific problems and the possibility of remedial action under this
  program. An environmental impact statement is also required. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected
  the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Formal letter to the District Engineer from a prospective sponsoring agency
  indicating clear intent to provide all required local participation.
Award Procedure:
  The Division Engineer approves an individual project upon the basis of a
  comprehensive investigation and report by the District Engineer. Advertising
  and award are subject to availability of funds from the Chief of Engineers.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
                                                                                    259
