  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Headquarters, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Attn: CERM-FC., 20                      
  Massachusetts Avenue, NW., Washington, DC 20314-1000. Telephone: (202)              
  272-1931. FTS is not available.                                                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.usace.army.mil/business.html.                                            
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
12.113 STATE MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT                                                  
PROGRAM FOR THE REIMBURSEMENT OF TECHNICAL                                            
SERVICES                                                                              
                                                                                      
   (DSMOA)                                                                            
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF THE CHIEF OF ENGINEERS, DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY,                           
  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                                                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act               
  (CERCLA) of 1980, Public Law 96-510, as amended, 10 U.S.C. 2810;                    
  Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986, Section 211(d),               
  Public Law 99-499.                                                                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To reimburse each State and territory for their costs incurred by providing         
  technical services in support of Department of Defense Environmental                
  Restoration Program activities. This program seeks to facilitate State and          
  territory participation in expediting cleanup at DoD hazardous waste sites, and     
  to foster relations between States, military services, Defense agencies and DoD.    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  State/territorial services that qualify for payment under the program include the   
  following types of assistance provided by the State/territory commencing at site    
  identification and continuing through operation and maintenance as well as any      
  other activities that are funded by DERA: 1. Technical review, comments and         
  recommendations on all documents or data required to be submitted to the            
  State/territory under an agreement between the State/territory and a DoD            
  component, all documents or data that a DoD component requests the                  
  State/territory to review, and all documents or data that are provided by a DoD     
  component to the State/territory for review as a result of a request from the       
  State/territory made under applicable State/territorial law; 2. identification and  
  explanation of State/territorial applicable or relevant and appropriate             
  requirements related to response actions at DoD installations; 3. site visits to    
  review DoD response actions and ensure their consistency with appropriate           
  requirements, or in accordance with site-specific requirements established in       
  other agreements between the State/territory and DoD Component; 4.                  
  participation in cooperation with DoD in the conduct of public education and        
  public participation activities in accordance with Federal and State/territorial    
  requirements for public involvement; 5. services provided at the request of DoD     
  in connection with participation in technical review committees; 6. preparation     
  and administration of a cooperative agreement (CA) to implement this                
  agreement, including the estimates of State/territorial costs; and 7. other services
  that the State/territory will provide that are set out in the DSMOA or are          
  included in installation-specific cleanup agreements. The DSMOA program does        
  not include costs incurred prior to October 16, 1986. Funded from DERA,             
  BRAC 1, BRAC 91, and Defense stock funds and will soon include selected             
  formerly used Defense site activities.                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  State and territorial governments only.                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  State and territorial governments, local governments, public nonprofit              
  organization/institution, public institution/organization, profit organization,     
  private nonprofit institution/organization.                                         
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants must enter into a Defense/State Memorandum of Agreement (54 FR           
  31358-31362, July 28, 1989).                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental          


                                                                                 11-08
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact in his or her State for more information
  on the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review.
Application Procedure:
  Administration of CAs will be in accordance with Office of management and
  Budget (OMB) Circular No. A-102, Grants and Cooperative Agreements with
  State and Local Governments, and Title 32 CFR 278, Office of the Secretary of
  Defense, Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative
  Agreements to State and Local Governments. A State/territory will submit a
  complete application package for Federal assistance, consisting of Standard
  Form 424 (SF 424) and attachments, including a proposal narrative, the signed
  DSMOA, and a project management plan. The State/territory's application must
  also include a description of the type and amount of support services that the
  State/territory plans to provide for each installation covered in the DSMOA for
  the specific award period of the CA. CAs will be awarded for a term of two
  years, based on an annual estimate of requirements. Applications will be
  accepted after signature of the DSMOA by both parties; DoD processing time
  for applications is expected to be two months. The Corps of Engineers, as
  executive agent for DASD(E) will accept the application, review it, and make a
  decision as to the award. This CA agreement, when signed by both the Head of
  the Agency signing on behalf of the State/territory, and approved by the chief of
  engineers, comprises the contractual relationship between the DoD and the
  State/territory. States/territories may request funds in accordance with the
  methods outlined in OMB Circular No. A-102 and 32 CFR 278. These
  documents provide for the following methods of payment: (1) Advances; and (2)
  reimbursement; and a State/territory may request a payment method in its
  cooperative agreement application. Allowable costs will be determined in
  accordance with OMB Circular No. A-87, Cost Principles for State and Local
  Governments. Specific services to be provided by the State/territory will be as
  described in the DSMOA. Auditing of State/territorial programs will be
  accomplished in accordance with OMB Circular No. A-128, Audits of State and
  Local Governments. DoD DASD(E) will invite State/territories to sign
  DSMOAs and submit applications for CAs.
Award Procedure:
  Reimbursement will be accomplished, using Federal procedures for CAs, with
  State/territories that have signed DSMOAs. Eligible activities are limited to
  those authorized for the Defense Environmental Restoration Program (DERP),
  and funded by the Defense Environmental Restoration Account (DERA),
  Sections 2701 et seq., of Title 10 U.S.C., and as specified in the DSMOA. In
  general, these activities will be centralized in the Office of the Deputy Assistant
  Secretary of Defense (Environment) with the assistance of the Army Corps of
  Engineers who will administer the program on a day to day basis. CAs will be
  awarded for a term of two years, based on annual estimate of requirements.
  Applications will be accepted after signature of the DSMOA by both parties;
  processing time for applications is expected to be two months. The Deputy
  Assistant Secretary of Defense (Environment) (DASD(E)) will approve the
  DMOSA, and the Corps of Engineers accept the application, review it, and make
  a decision as to the award. This CA agreement, when signed by the Head of the
  Agency signing on behalf of the State/territory, and approved by the Corps of
  engineers, comprises the contractual relationship between the DoD and the
  State/territory. States may request funds in accordance with the methods
  outlined in OMB Circular No. A-102 and 32 CFR 278. These documents
  provide for the following methods of payment: (1) Advances; and (2)
  Reimbursement; and a State may request either payment method in its
  cooperative agreement application.
Deadlines:
  For receipt of funds in any given year a complete application must be received
  by June 1.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  30 to 60 days.
Appeals:
  For applications not approved, the Army Corps of Engineers (managing office of
  the program) will work with applicants to complete applications.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Two years. Annual budgets are prepared and reimbursement or advances are
  awarded on a quarterly basis.
Reports:
  Quarterly financial and technical reports by object class and installation.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $300,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
                                                                                   267
