  information, documenting of environmental damage, and developing a system           
  for prioritization of mitigation and cost to complete estimates for mitigation, on

  Indian lands resulting from Department of Defense activities.                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  The 50 States, the District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the                  
  Commonwealth of the Northern Marinas, Palau Island, the Commonwealth of             
  Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Federally recognized Indian tribes.            
                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  The 50 States, the District of Columbia, Guam, American Samoa, the                  
  Commonwealth of the Northern Marinas, Palau Island, the Commonwealth of             
  Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, and Federally recognized Indian tribes.            
                                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:

  Applicants must furnish evidence is sufficient detail so that the relationship of a 
  State's or Tribes request for Corps input for some particular aspect of the State or
                                                                                      
  Tribe program may be appraised.

                                                                                      
Preapplication Coordination:

                                                                                      
  Pre-application and selection by DoD and USACE occurs prior to development

                                                                                      
  of the CA. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

                                                                                      
Application Procedure:

  Requests are made in the form of a letter to the District Engineer documenting      
  the need for assistance.                                                            
                                                                                      
Award Procedure:

  The appropriate Division Engineer reviews and approves federally recognized         
  Tribe requests. The Office of the Chief of Engineers allocates funds to the         
  appropriate Corps field office.                                                     
                                                                                      
Deadlines:

  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Renewals:                                                                             
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  100 percent Federal upon award.                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Funds are released from the Office of the Chief of Engineers on an annual basis     
  after the start of the fiscal year. The length of the agreement is defined in the   
  Cooperative Agreement, but is subject to some modification, depending on the        
  availability of funds to each of the participating Federally recognized Tribe.      
  Federal assistance is provided as rapidly as possible depending on availability of  
  funds and competent personnel resources. Federal assistance is not guaranteed       
  beyond the term of the Cooperative Agreement.                                       
Reports:                                                                              
  Quarterly reports are required including financial (SF 269). SEE MOA/CA for         
  details.                                                                            
Audits:                                                                               
  internal review is accomplished by BIA of Tribal programs.                          
Records:                                                                              
  Per OMB Circular No. A-102.                                                         
Account Identification:                                                               
  97-2003-0-1-999.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 est not reported; FY 08 est not reported; and FY 09 est not reported. No      
  current information provided by Agency.                                             
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                     
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  The role of the BBRPO is to ensure the timely an proper mitigation of the former    
  BBR to condition that is safe for the anticipated reasonable use of its owners.     
  The BBRPO ensures that land usage issues are evaluated to the proper UXO            
  clearance. The BBRPO is responsible for coordinating the necessary parties          
  required for any and all cultural issues and concerns of the BBR.                   
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  DOD Regulation 3210.6-R Department of Defense Grant and Agreement                   
  Regulations.                                                                        
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog for listing of District Engineers.                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, Attn: CEMP-RF (KIM DAILY), Washington,                
  DC 20314-1000. Telephone: (202) 761-5145. FTS is not available.                     
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                     
                                                                                      
                                                                                      


                                                                                 11-08
12.300 BASIC AND APPLIED SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF NAVAL RESEARCH, DEPARTMENT OF THE NAVY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 79-588, 10 U.S.C. 5150-5153; Public Law 87-651, 10 U.S.C. 2358,
  as amended; Public Law 97-86, 31 U.S.C. 6304.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support basic and applied research at educational or research institutions,
  which has a potential for leading to the improvement of naval operations, and to
  support training and stimulation of future researchers in science and engineering
  disciplines.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Basic and applied research in the physical, mathematical, environmental,
  engineering and life sciences providing knowledge necessary for the Navy to
  make informed decisions about further exploratory development to provide the
  technology base from which naval capabilities are drawn. Partial support of
  symposia in the listed disciplines. Programs to encourage careers in science and
  engineering by supporting outstanding graduate, undergraduate and high school
  students pursuing studies in areas of naval concern. Programs to increase science
  and engineering graduates from under-represented minority groups. Programs
  providing means for universities to buy major, high-cost research equipment.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private/public educational institutions; other private/public nonprofit
  organizations which are operated primarily for scientific, educational, or similar
  purposes in the public interest, and are not organized primarily for profit. Grants
  cannot be awarded to individuals. Eligibility requirements for Office of Naval
  Research's (ONR) training and research instrumentation/ equipment programs
  are also described in the ONR publication "Guide to Programs".
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Private/public educational institutions; other private/public nonprofit
  organizations which are operated primarily for scientific, educational or similar
  purposes in the public interest, and are not organized primarily for profit. Grants
  cannot be awarded to individuals.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Costs will be determined in accordance with OMB Circular Nos. A-21, A-87, A-
  88, and A-122 and Subpart 31.2 of the Federal Acquisition Regulation
  applicable to commercial firms and those nonprofits exempted from OMB
  Circular No. A-122. The administrative requirements of OMB Circular Nos. A-
  102, A-110, A-128 and A-133 apply. Patents, inventions and rights in technical
  data and computer software are subject to 48 CFR 227 and 252, as amended,
  and 37 CFR 401.14.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  This program is subject to OMB Circular No. A-110. All eligible private/public
  educational institutions and other private/public nonprofit organizations may
  submit proposals in response to the relevant Broad Agency Announcement
  published annually in the Federal Business Opportunities (www.fedbizopps.gov)
  Information regarding areas of scientific interest and points of contact is
  contained in the ONR "Guide to Programs". Application and award procedures
  for ONR's training and research instrumentation/equipment programs is also
  contained in separate brochures describing these programs.
Award Procedure:
  Award decisions will be based on a competitive selection of proposals resulting
  from a peer and/or scientific review. Evaluations will use the criteria contained
  in the relevant Broad Agency Announcement. If selected for award, the proposal
  is incorporated into a grant document and the applicant agrees to perform the
  research described therein.
Deadlines:
  Proposals may be submitted at any time during a year period from the date of
  publication of the Broad Agency Announcement in the Commerce Business
  Daily.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Awards may be made at any time throughout the year for which funding is
  authorized.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Reapplication with new proposal is permitted.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funding will reflect period of performance and may be awarded incrementally.
Reports:
  Grantee is expected to publish or otherwise make results of work publicly
  available. Copies of reports are furnished by the grantee to a prescribed list of
  addressees (as set forth in the grant), which includes the Defense Technical
  Information Center. Subsequent distribution to DoD agencies and their
                                                                                   269
