  None.                                                                              
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  None.                                                                              
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  Criteria are defined specifically in the BAAs when issued.                         
                                                                                     
12.351 BASIC SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH - COMBATING                                         
                                                                                     
WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION                                                          
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  10 U.S.C. 2358, as amended (R&D Projects), 10 U.S.C. 2371 (OTA), 10 U.S.C          
  2413 (Cooperative Agreements), 10 U.S.C. 2361 (Grants and Contracts to             
  universities-competitive)                                                          
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To support and stimulate basic, applied and advanced research and technology       
  development at educational or research institutions, non-profit organizations,     
  and commercial firms, which support the advancement of fundamental                 
  knowledge and understanding of the sciences with an emphasis on exploring          
  new and innovative research for combating or countering Weapons of Mass            
  Destruction (WMD).                                                                 
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Uses and restrictions are specified in individual program BAAs and award           
  documents issued by and codified regulations applicable to awards. These are       
  submitted at the time of proposal or prior to award, as specified by executive     
  agents.                                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  As stated in individual program BAAs. Generally, competitions are open to          
  private and public educational accredited institutions of higher education that    
  carry out science and engineering research and/or related science and              
  engineering education on a non-profit basis. Some awards are made to non-          
  profit, commercial or federal laboratories that conduct basic research. Awards     
  are not made to individuals.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  If the award is a grant, cooperative agreement or other transactinal agreement the 
  applicant must not appear on the non-procurement, debarred or suspended list       
  for DoD. Recipient eligibility is contingent upon submission of representations    
  and certifications that are required by federal statues and Executive Orders (EO). 
  Costs will be determined in accordance with 2 CFR Part 220 (formerly OMB           
  Circular No. A-21). The administrative requirements of OMB Circular Nos. A-        
  102, A-110, A-128 and A-133 apply. Patents, inventions and rights in technical     
  data and computer software are subject to 48 CFR 227 and 252, as amended,          
  and 37 CFR 401.14.                                                                 
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Eligible applicants may submit proposals in response to relevant BAAs              
  published on www.FedBizOpps.gov under "Other Defense Agencies - DTRA",             
  which will advise potential applicants what activities or research topic areas will
  be supported, and how to apply.                                                    
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Award decisions are based on evaluations of proposals, using technical merit,      
  peer and/or scientific review. Evaluation criteria are contained in the relevant   
  Broad Agency Announcement. If selected for award, the proposal is the basis for    
  the award document and the applicant agrees to perform the research or research    
  related activities described therein.                                              
Deadlines:                                                                           
  Deadlines for submitting proposals are specified in the individual relevant Broad  
  Agency Announcements.                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Award times will be identified in the relevant BAA. Typically, decisions are       
  made within 90-120 days of receipt of proposal for which funding is authorized.    
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Re-application with new proposals is permitted.                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  There are no statutory formulas. Cost-sharing or matching, when required, is

  specified in the individual BAA.

Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                     
  Since this is a research and technology program, the assistance is generally for   
  the period of performance as stated in the individual grant, agreement or OTA.     
  Funding is usually provided incrementally in accordance with a payment             
  schedule contained in the award document.                                          
Reports:                                                                             


                                                                                11-08
  Awardee is expected to publish or otherwise make results of work publicly
  available. Copies of reports are furnished by the awardee to a prescribed list of
  addressees as set forth in the grant, agreement or OTA. Technical and financial
  reporting requirements are in accordance with terms and conditions of award
  documents and with Department of Defense implementation of applicable OMB
  Circulars A-110 and A-102.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Each awardee will maintain accounting records, in accordance with Department
  of Defense implementation of OMB Circular A-110, which will permit
  determination that the funds were used for the grant purposes.
Account Identification:
  97-X-0400.34HQ.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $13,298,000; FY 08 $38,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Average $450,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Initiated a new start program in FY 07 via Broad Agency Announcement BAA.
  174 white papers from 86 US Universities were received and down selected via
  the technical criteria in the BAA to 75 invitations for full proposals. Ninety-
  three peer-reviewers external to DTRA performed the evaluations, again using
  the technical criteria in the BAA. Based on their evaluations and other factors,
  including budget limitations and balance of the entire portfolio as set forth in the
  BAA, 33 grants were awarded to 27 Universities.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Regulations, Guidelines and Literature sources are specified in the individual
  relevant Broad Agency Announcements.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Defense Threat Reduction Agency BE-BC, 8725 John J. Kingman Rd - MS
  6201, Ft. Belvoir, VA 22060-6201.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.dtra.mil/be/business_opp/procurement/acq_procopp.cfm
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Eight topic Areas include: Radiological and Nuclear Detection Material Science;
  Novel High Energy Materials and Processes for Counter WMD; Particulate and
  Agent Dynamics in Multipurpose Turbulent Reacting Flows; Understanding
  Network Response to Attack; Adversarial Social Network Theory; Biodosimetry
  Biomarkers for Mixed Radiation Exposure; Thermal Bionanosensor Material
  Science; Novel Methods of WMD Explosives Detection; Sample Projects
  include: Control of grain boundaries and defects in nano-engineered transparent
  scintillator ceramics; Radiological and Nuclear Detection Material Science -
  Investigation of Overpressure Related Brain Injury Mechanism; Polymer-
  Inorganic Nanohybrid Materials for High-Sensitivity Radiation Detection; High-
  Energy-Density Structural Energetic Materials for Counter WMD Applications;
  Fundamental Particle Combustion Kinetics Measurements in the Shock Tube in
  Support of Enhanced Blast Weapons Development; Coarse-grained Dynamics
  and Robustness of Networks: An Equation-free Approach; Framework for
  Adversarial Social Networks; Integrated Adversarial Network Theory; Discovery
  and Validation of Proteomic Biomarkers for Radiation Exposure; Composite-
  Nanoparticles Thermal History Sensors; Macrophage-Derived Receptors as
  Novel Detectors of Explosive-Released Chemicals.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Generally, the principal evaluation and selection criteria are the technical or
  socio-economic merits of the proposal and potential long term contributions of
  DTRA's specific mission. Other selection criteria vary with the nature of the
  specific research or research-related activity. Typically, these inculde the
  qualifications, capabilities, and experience of the proposed Principal Investigator
  and/or key personnel who are critial in achieving the proposal objectives;
  adequacy of cureent or planned facilities, and equipment; and reasonableness
  and realisn of the proposed costs.
12.352 SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH - COMBATING WEAPONS
OF MASS DESTRUCTION
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEFENSE THREAT REDUCTION AGENCY, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION:
  10 U.S.C. 2358 (R&D grants and cooperative agreements), 10 U.S.C. 2361
                                                                                    271
