  (grants & contracts to universities- competitive), 10 U.S.C. 2371 (OTA)            
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To support and stimulate applied research, advanced research, and technology       
  development at educational or research institutions, nonprofit organizations, and  
  commercial firms, in order to advance the fundamental knowledge and                
  understanding of the sciences with an emphasis on exploring new and innovative     
  research for combating or countering Weapons of Mass Destruction (WMD),            
  which may have a military or dual-use application (10 U.S.C. 2511, recipient       
  must cost share) This support may take the form of grants, cooperative             
  agreements, other transactions or contracts.                                       
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Project Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  No block or formula grants. Only project grants resulting from scientific          
  proposals. Funds must be expended in furtherance of the research identified in     
  the proposal, in accordance with the cost principles established in 2 CFR Part     
  220 and CFR Part 230.                                                              
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Any domestic or foreign industrial/commercial concerns including small             
  business; accredited degree granting colleges and universities; not-for profit     
  organizations; DoD- sponsored Federally Funded Research and Development            
  Centers (FFRDCs) specified in DoD FAR Supplement 235.017-1; DOE                    
  sponsored FFRDCs With authorization from DOE sponsor. Awards are not               
  made to U.S. Government agencies and organizations, Federal academic               
  institutions, Federal laboratories not identified in DFARS 235-071-1, or           
  individuals.                                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  Applicants must not appear on the debarred of suspended list for the Department    
  of Defense. Costs will be determined in accordance with 2 CFR Part 220             
  (formerly OMB Circular No. A-21), 2 CFR.225 (formerly OMB Circular No. A-          
  87), and 2 CFR Part 230 (formerly OMB Circular A-122). The administrative          
  requirements of OMB Circular Nos. A-102, A-110, A-128 and A-133 apply.             
                                                                                     
  Patents, inventions and rights in technical data and computer software are

                                                                                     
  subject to 48 CFR 227 and 252, as amended, and 37 CFR 401.14.

                                                                                     
Preapplication Coordination:

  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                     
Application Procedure:                                                               
  Eligible applicants may submit proposals or white papers in response to relevant   
  Broad Agency Announcements publicized on Grants.gov and in the Federal             
  Business Opportunities (www.fedbizopps.gov) under Other Defense Agencies -

  DTRA. This program is subject to OMB Circular No. A-110.                           
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  Award decisions will be based on a competitive selection of proposals resulting

  from a peer and/or scientific review. Evaluations will use the criteria contained  
  in the relevant Broad Agency Announcement. If selected for award, the              
  Statement of Work (SOW) and budget are incorporated and the applicant agrees       
  to perform the research described therein.                                         
Deadlines:                                                                           
  White paper submission and invitation proposal instructions will be specified in   
  the Broad Agency Announcement.                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  Awards may be made at any Time throughout the year for which funding is            
  authorized.                                                                        
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Reapplication with new proposals is permitted.                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  This program has no statutory formula and matching is normally not applicable;     
  however, if award instrument is under 10 U.S.C. 2511 (Defense Dual-Use             
  Critical Technology Program) 50 percent cost sharing is mandatory.                 
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  Funding will reflect period of performance and may be awarded incrementally.       
Reports:                                                                             
  Technical and financial reporting requirements are in accordance with terms and    
  conditions of award document. Grantee is expected to publish or otherwise make     
  results of work publicly available. Copies of reports are furnished by the grantee 
  to a prescribed list of addressees (as set forth in the grant), which includes the 
  Defense Technical Information Center (DTIC). 112 Audits: In accordance with        
  the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June 27, 2003), "Audits of      
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations," nonfederal entities       
  that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in Federal awards will have   
  a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities  
  that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal    
  audit requirements for that year, except as noted in Circular No. A-133.           
Audits:                                                                              
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June         
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"     
                                                                                     
272                                                                            11-08

  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in OMB Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Each grantee will maintain accounting records which will permit determination
  that the funds were used for the grant purposes. Financial records must be
  maintained for at least three years; records Shall be retained beyond the 3-year
  period if audit findings have not been resolved.
Account Identification:
  970400.34HQ.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $500,000; FY 08 est $1,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  None.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Department of Defense Grants and Agreements Regulations (DoDGARs), and
  specific program announcements (Broad Agency Announcements) issued by
  DTRA.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  Defense Threat Reduction Agency, 8725 John J. Kingman Rd, MS 6201, Ft.
  Belvoir, VA 22060-6201.
Web Site Address:
  See Broad Agency Announcement for specific website information.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  None.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  (1) Overall scientific, technical or socio-economic merits of the proposal; (2)
  potential contributions of the effort to the DTRA's specific mission; (3)
  capabilities, related experience, facilities, techniques or unique combinations of
  these, which are integral factors for achieving the proposal objectives; 4.
  qualifications, capabilities and experience of the proposed principal investigator,
  team leader or key personnel who are critical in achieving the proposal
  objectives; and 5. reasonableness and realism of the proposed cost.
12.360 RESEARCH ON CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL
DEFENSE
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  JOINT PROGRAM OFFICE FOR CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL
  DEFENSE, CHEMICAL AND BIOLOGICAL MEDICAL SYSTEMS
  PROGRAM OFFICE, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION:
  10 U.S.C. 2358.
OBJECTIVES:
  To further the capability to prevent, detect, diagnose and treat the effects of
  chemical, radiological and biological warfare agents.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Recipients are required to conform to their accepted research protocol and are
  usually required to submit some form of annual or project report.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must be a public or private educational institution, nonprofit
  organizations operated for purposes in the public interest and commercial firms.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries are relatively independent investigators associated with an
  applicant organization.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must furnish evidence of legal authorization, financial and
  managerial capability as well as a certification of compliance with Federal,
  State, and local environmentallaws, ordinances and regulations. Applicants must
  not appear on the DoD debarred or suspended list.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants should obtain a copy of The relevant BAA which describes the full
  research program areas of interestand includes necessary forms and instruction
  for proposal submissions. The BAA is available at no cost to the applicant and is
  also available for download at www.fedbizopps.gov (search under USASMDC),
  www.jpeocbd.osd.mil/ and www.grants.gov .
Award Procedure:
  None.
Deadlines:
