  ARNG Environmental and Integrated Training Area Management Programs                   
  Resources Management provide Federal support for services provided by the             
  States to accomplish environmental actions such as: a. Environmental                  
  Compliance/Corrective Projects - maintenance and repair and construction              
  projects that are initiated to comply with environmental laws, prevent pollution,     
  conserve the environment, and restore the environment; b. Environmental               
  Services - activities that support environmental compliance, pollution                
  prevention, conservation, and restoration; such as studies, plans, surveys,           
  assessments, test, monitoring, hazardous waste management and environmental           
  public affairs requirements; c. Program Management - actions, activities, and         
  tasks which are accomplished to maintain a strong environmental program.              
  Program management includes, but is not limited to items such as salaries and         
  benefits, training, maintaining and environmental reference library and material,     
  file/records administration, travel, per diem, mileage, etc.; d. ITAM program - an    
  Army program designed to sustain future us of federally supported training lands      
  through program components and to integrate other Federal programs and                
  stewardship principles into range, training; 3. ARNG Security Guard Activities -      
  provide Federal support for services provided by the States for authorized            
  facilities and services for security guard costs; 4. ARNG Electronic Security         
  System Operation and Maintenance - provide Federal support for services               
  provided by the States for Joint Services Interior Intrusion Detection Systems (J-    
  SIIDS), Commercial Intrusion Detection Systems (CIDS), Exterior Instruction           
  Detection Systems, Closed Circuit Television (CCTV) used for security                 
  surveillance and associated on site and off site remote monitoring equipment          
  provided by the State for authorized facilities; 5. ARNG Telecommunications -         
  provide Federal support for services provided by the States for                       
  installation/activity telephone service; facsimile service; telecommunication         
  services; foreign exchange (FX) service; Wide Area Telecommunications                 
  Service (WATS); telephone directories; funding, billing, and internal controls for    
  base telecommunications services; and Defense Switched Network (DSN); 6.              
                                                                                        
  ARNG Aviation Training Base Operation - provide Federal support for services

                                                                                        
  provided by the States for Air Traffic Control (ATC) Service, Airport Service

                                                                                        
  Agreements, and Aircraft Rescue Fire Fighting (AFF); 7. ARNG Ranges and

                                                                                        
  Training Land Program - provide Federal support for services provided by the

                                                                                        
  States for range operations, range maintenance, leases, rentals and equipment for

                                                                                        
  authorized ranges and training lands; 8. ARNG Full Time Dining Facility               
  Operations - provide Federal support for services provided by the States for          
  authorized Food Service Operations at ARNG missions and training sites; 9.            
  ARNG Store Front Recruiting Office Activities - provide Federal support for           
  services provided by the States for authorized Store Front Recruiting activities;     
  10. Office of the Chief - Information Services Activities - provide Federal           
  support for services provided by the States for printing and duplication services,    
  mail distribution services, and records management services; 11. ARNG Air and         
  Surface Petroleum, Oil and Lubricants (POL) - provide Federal support services        
  and maintenance expenses for POL activities; 12. ARNG Aviation Reimbursable           
  Maintenance Operations - Provide Federal support for aviation reimbursable            
  maintenance operations within the State. These operations include the                 
  maintenance, fabrication, and/or repair of aircraft, aircraft subassemblies, and      
  systems; 13. Air National Guard(ANG) Facilities O & M - provide                       
  Federalsupportforservicesprovided                                                     
  by the State for authorized facilities for leases, real property operations, real     
  property maintenance and repair, and O + M minor construction costs; 14. ANG          
  Environmental Programs Management provide Federal support for services                
  provided by the States to accomplish environmental actions such as: a.                
  Environmental Compliance/Corrective Projects - maintenance and repair and/or          
  construction projects that are initiated to comply with the environmental laws,       
  prevent pollution, conserve the environment, and restore the environment, b.          
  Environmental Services - activities that support environmental compliance,            
  pollution prevention, conservation, and restoration; such as studies, plans,          
  surveys, tests, monitoring, hazardous waste disposal and management and               
  environmental public affairs requirements, c. Program Management - actions,           
  activities, and tasks which are accomplished to maintain a strong environmental       
  program. Program management includes, but is not limited to items such as             
  environmental corrective actions, Hazardous waste management, ECAMP                   
  auditing, Training, Environmental Project reviews, Environmental planning             
  activities, and Natural resources actions; 15.ANG Security Guard - provide            
                                                                                        
  Federal support for services provided by the States for authorized expenses

                                                                                        
  incurred in rendering security guard service; and 16. ANG Fire Protection

                                                                                        
  Activities provide Federal support for services provided by the States for

                                                                                        
  authorized fire protection activities. 17 ANG Natural and Cultural Resources

                                                                                        
  Management - provide Federal support for Natural and Cultural resource                
  Management projects which are initiated to comply environmental laws,                 
  conserve and restore the environment; 18. ANG Air Traffic Control Activities -        
  provide Federal support to the State for sufficient personnel, equipment (except      
  GFE), tools, materials, supervision and other items/services necessary to perform     
  non-approach control air traffic control, and aviation weather                        
  observing/reporting services; 19. ANG Paint Facility Activities - provide Federal     
  support for paint facility activities, which include but are not limited to, painting 
  aircraft, and administrative support; 20. ANG Services Resources Management -         


274                                                                               11-08

  provide Federal support for State services employees training, lodging and food
  service activities, i.e., cooks, custodial support and, food service accounting.
  Note: State means any of the States of the United States, District of Columbia,
  the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Virgin Islands, and Guam, including their
  political subdivisions, counties, municipalities, cities, towns, townships, local
  public authorities and tax-supported agencies.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  To provide a combat-ready reserve force in the Army and Air Force National
  Guard units in the 50 States, District of Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto
  Rico, Virgin Islands, and Guam.
Applicant Eligibility:
  The 50 States, District of Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Virgin
  Islands, and Guam. The State National Guard unit must be federally recognized.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  The 50 States, District of Columbia, Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Virgin
  Islands, and Guam. The State National Guard must be federally recognized.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  The State Adjutant General submits proposed projects in accordance with
  National Guard Bureau criteria guidelines.
Award Procedure:
  After Congress authorizes, approves, and appropriates funds, the National Guard
  Bureau reviews and approves all necessary plans, specifications, and other
  documentation, the award can be made.
Deadlines:
  Not later than June 30, the States shall submit a budget to NGB, for
  review/approval, for each succeeding fiscal year (September 1 through October).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 1 to 2 months.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Requires submission of a budget proposal for the coming fiscal year.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Federal funds provide from 75 percent to 100 percent of cost for these programs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Twelve month funding.
Reports:
  States must submit certified vouchers for each payment to the United States
  Property and Fiscal Officer of the State.
Audits:
  Governed by Single Audit Act of 1984.
Records:
  Maintained at State level.
Account Identification:
  57-3840-0-1-051.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 $100,000,000; FY 08 est not reported; and FY
  09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $100,000 and up.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  All programs have been successful. For specific accomplishments for the
  programs listed in Objectives above, please contact the Program Managers listed
  in Appendix IV of the Catalog under National Guard Bureau Headquarters
  Offices.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  None.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  See Appendix IV of the Catalog.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ngb.dtic.mil/indexshtm/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  ARNG Real Property O&M Projects (RPOMA; Environmental Resources
  Management; Security Guard Activities; Electronic Security System;
  Telecommunications; Aviation Operations; Automated Target Systems; Full
  Time Dining Facility Operations; Store Front Office Recruiting Lease;
  Administrative Services Activities; ARNG Air and Surface Petroleum, oil and
  lubricants; ARNG Aviation Reimbursable Maintenance Operations; Air
  National Guard (ANG) Facilities O&M; ANG Environmental; ANG Security
  Guard; (ANG) Fire Protection; (ANG) Natural and Cultural Resources
  Management; (ANG) Air Traffic Control Activities and (ANG) Paint Facility
