  Activities.                                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  States shall submit annual financial plans which will be reviewed, prioritized,    
  and approved by the appropriate NGB Program Manager.                               
                                                                                     
12.404 NATIONAL GUARD CIVILIAN YOUTH                                                 
                                                                                     
OPPORTUNITIES                                                                        
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  DEPARTMENT OF THE ARMY, NATIONAL GUARD BUREAU,                                     
  DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  Defense Appropriation Act, as amended, 32 U.S.C. 509; 10 U.S.C. 2193.              
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Chief of the National Guard           
  Bureau, conducts a National Guard civilian youth opportunities program (to be      
  known as the "National Guard ChalleNGe Program") to use the National Guard         
  to provide military-based training, including supervised work experience in        
  community service and conservation projects, to civilian youth who cease to        
  attend secondary school after graduating so as to improve the life skills and      
  employment potential of such youth.                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Formula Grants.                                                                    
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  To carry out the National Guard ChalleNGe Program in a State, the Secretary of     
  Defense shall enter into an agreement with the Governor of the State or, in the    
  case of the District of Columbia, with the commanding general of the District of   
  Columbia National Guard, under which the Governor or the commanding                
  general will establish, organize, and administer the National Guard ChalleNGe      
  Program in the State. The agreement may provide for the Secretary to provide       
  funds to the State for civilian personnel costs attributable to the use of civilian
  employees of the National Guard in the conduct of the National Guard               
  ChalleNGe Program.                                                                 
                                                                                     
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                     
  The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the conduct of the National Guard

                                                                                     
  ChalleNGe Program in such States and U.S. territories and possession as the

                                                                                     
  Secretary considers to be appropriate, except that Federal expenditures under the

                                                                                     
  program may not exceed $62.5M for fiscal year 01.                                  
Beneficiary Eligibility:

  The Secretary of Defense shall provide for the conduct of the National Guard

  ChalleNGe Program in such States and U.S. territories and possession as the        
  Secretary considers to be appropriate, except that Federal expenditures under the  
  program may not exceed $62.5M for fiscal year 01.

Credentials/Documentation:                                                           
  None.                                                                              
Preapplication Coordination:                                                         
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                           
Application Procedure:                                                               
  The State shall develop a plan which includes details on student application and   
  selection procedures, number of students to be trained, staffing, curriculum,      
  Post-Residential phase execution, facilities and services, State public and private
  service to be provided and a detailed budget.                                      
Award Procedure:                                                                     
  After Congress authorizes, approves, and appropriates funds for the project and    
  the National Guard Bureau reviews and approves all necessary plans,                
  specifications, bidding documents, contracts and other documentation, the          
  award can be made.                                                                 
                                                                                     
Deadlines:

  Not available.                                                                     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                  
  From 2 to 3 months.                                                                
Appeals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                              
Renewals:                                                                            
  Not applicable.                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                   
  The amount of assistance provide under this section to a State program of the      
  National Guard ChalleNGe Program may not exceed: (1) For fiscal year 2000,         
  65 percent of the costs of operating the State program during the year; and (2)    
  for fiscal year 2001 and each subsequent fiscal year, 60 percent of the costs of   
  operating the State program during that year."                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                               
  One year from the approval of the agreement.                                       
Reports:                                                                             
  State must submit certified vouchers for each payment to the U.S. Property and     
  Fiscal Officer of the State. Within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the 
  Secretary of Defense shall submit to Congress a report on the design, conduct,     
  and effectiveness of the National Guard ChalleNGe Program during the               
  preceding fiscal year. In preparing the report, the Secretary shall coordinate with
  the Governor of each State in which the National Guard ChalleNGe Program is        


                                                                                11-08
  carried out and, if the program is carried out in the District of Columbia, with
  the commanding general of the District of Columbia National Guard.
Audits:
  Governed by the Single Audit Act of 1984. The USPFO shall conduct an annual
  internal review of the program. The internal review shall commence 90 days
  after the close of the program budget year.
Records:
  An inventory of program assets by each State.
Account Identification:
  57-3840-0-1-051.
Obligations:
  (Grants) FY 07 $62,500,000; FY 08 est not reported; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Section 509(b) limits the use of Federal funds in an amount not to exceed
  $62.5M for fiscal year 05.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  The ChalleNGe and Starbase programs have grown during the past 9 years from
  ideas into the most successful programs of their types in the United States.
  ChalleNGe has grown from a pilot program of 10 States to a permanent program
  with 25 States currently participating and more than 22,000 graduates. Starbase
  has grown from 1 program to the 19 that exist today, and has been adopted by
  the Navy and Air Force Reserve.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  DoD and NGB guidance.
Regional or Local Office:
  None.
Headquarters Office:
  NGB/NGB-YP (Youth Programs Division), 1411 Jefferson Davis Highway, JP1,
  Arlington, VA 22202-3221. Telephone: (703) 607-5975. (Use 327-5975 for
  DSN).
Web Site Address:
  http://www.ngb.dtic.mil/indexstm/.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  None.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  ChalleNGe, Youth Conservation, and STARBASE.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  States shall submit annual financial plans which will be reviewed, prioritized,
  and approved by the appropriate NGB Program Manager.
12.420 MILITARY MEDICAL RESEARCH AND
DEVELOPMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF ARMY ARMY RESEARCH AND MATERIAL
  COMMAND, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION:
  10 U.S.C. 2358.
OBJECTIVES:
  To reduce illness and injury among U.S. military personnel on the battlefield
  through basic and applied medical research executed largely through grants and
  contracts with civilian educational and research institutions.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Recipients are required to conform to their accepted research protocol and are
  usually required to submit some form of annual or project report. Project support
  is limited to fundamental research which is defined as basic and applied research
  aimed at sustaining the technology base or understanding a biological- medical
  process, thereby providing a technological edge in solving complex biological-
  medical problems and countering future military medical threats. Some grants
  are also awarded to support conferences and symposiums.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants must be a public, nonprofit institution/organization, other public
  institution/organization, private nonprofit institution/organization, specialized
  group, or quasi-public nonprofit institution/organization.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Beneficiaries are relatively independent investigators associated with an
  applicant organization.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must furnish evidence of legal authorization, financial and
  managerial capability as well as a certification of compliance with Federal,
  State, and local environmental laws, ordinances and regulations.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Applicants should obtain a copy of the U.S. Army Medical Research and
  Development Command's Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) which describes
  the full research program and includes necessary forms and instructions for
  proposal submissions. BAA's may be obtained by request in writing from U.S.
                                                                                 275
