  Army Medical Research and Development Command, ATTN: MCMR-ACQ-                       
  BA, Fort Detrick, Frederick, MD 21702-5012. Pre-proposals are encouraged             
  prior to submission of a formal application. (See also www.fedbizopps.gov,           
  search on Army Medical Command).                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  Proposals are evaluated by in-house committee or by a combination of in-house        
  and extramural review committees against the following factors: (1) Military and     
  program relevance; (2) research objective; (3) scientific feasibility; (4)           
  qualifications; (5) facilities; and (6) budget. The final stage of evaluation is the 
  establishment of an order of merit in which all competing proposals are ranked       
  on the basis of their respective military relevance and scientific merit             
  evaluations. Award amount will be negotiated with those proposals                    
  recommended for acceptance. Awards depend upon the availability of funds and         
  the priority which USAMRDC determines to exist at the time of award.                 
Deadlines:                                                                             
  No overall program deadlines exist. Individual research areas may initiate           
  deadlines which will be communicated upon review of the pre-proposal.                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Pre-proposals are normally reviewed within 60 to 120 days. Formal proposals          
  are usually reviewed and notifications received within 6 months from                 
  submission. Grant award dates are normally within 6 months from notification.        
Appeals:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                              
  Once a grant is awarded, any follow-on research proposal is treated as a new         
  request. Follow-on work should allow for the review time noted above.                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  This program has no formula or matching requirements.                                
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                 
  The length of time for which support is requested should be consistent with the      
  nature and complexity of the proposed research. The maximum period                   
  acceptable for a research proposal is 5 years. Funds are normally released on a      
  quarterly basis.                                                                     
Reports:                                                                               
  Quarterly financial reports and a final financial transactions report, i.e., SF 272  
  are required. Additionally, some grants may require midterm and/or final             
  technical reports.                                                                   
Audits:                                                                                
  Defense Contract Audit Agency or Department of Health and Human Services             
  Audit Agency with no specific frequency established.                                 
Records:                                                                               
  Recipients are required to maintain records adequate to reflect the nature and       
  extent of their costs and expenditures and to insure that the required cost of       
  participation is achieved. Records must be maintained for 3 years following the      
  date of submission of final reimbursement request for services rendered.             
Account Identification:                                                                
  21-2040-0-1-051.                                                                     
Obligations:                                                                           
  (Grants) FY 07 est $140,000,000; FY 08 est not reported; and FY 09 est not           
  reported. Note: No current information provided by Agency.                           
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                             
  $100,000 to $5,000,000. Average: $650,000.                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                               
  None.                                                                                
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                               
  U.S. Army Medical Research and Development Command Board Agency                      
  Announcement (BAA) available without cost from the sponsoring agency. OMB            
  Circular Nos. A- 110 and A-122 are applicable to the project grants.                 
Regional or Local Office:                                                              
  Commander, U.S. Army Medical Research Acquisition Activity, Attn: SGRD-              
  RMA-RC, Fort Detrick, Frederick, Maryland 21702-5014. POC: Mr. Craig D.              
  Lebo. Telephone: (301) 619- 2036.                                                    
Headquarters Office:                                                                   
  U.S. Army Medical Research and Material Command, ATTN: MCMR-ACQ-                     
  BA, Fort Detrick, Frederick, MD 21702-5012. Telephone: (301) 619-7216.               
Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://mrmc-www.army.mil; http://cdmrp.army.mil.                                     
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  None.                                                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:

                                                                                       
  (1) Characterization and Utilization of Opioid-Like Hibernation Factors, $621K;

                                                                                       
  (2) Analysis of Investigational Drugs in Biological Fluids, Method Development

                                                                                       
  and Routine Assay, $2.4M; (3) Studies of Altered Response to Infection Induced

                                                                                       
  by Severe Injury, $1.1M; and (4) Mechanisms of Cutaneous Vesication, $862K.

                                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                       
  Not applicable.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
12.431 BASIC SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  ARMY RESEARCH OFFICE, ARMY MATERIAL COMMAND                                          


276                                                                              11-08

AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Laws 79-588, 87-651, 97-86, 10 U.S.C. 5150- 5153; 10 U.S.C. 2358, as
  amended; 10 U.S.C. 2361; 10 U.S.C. 6304.
OBJECTIVES:
  To support basic research that is related to or has potential for leading to the
  improvement of Army programs or operations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Basic Research in the mathematical, physical, engineering, biological and
  geosciences providing knowledge necessary for the Army to make informed
  decisions about further exploratory development to provide the technology base
  from which Army capabilities are drawn. Partial support of symposia in the
  listed disciplines. Programs to encourage careers in science and engineering by
  support to outstanding graduate, undergraduate and high school students
  pursuing studies in areas of Army concern. Programs to increase science and
  engineering graduates from under-represented minority groups. Programs
  providing means for universities to buy major, high-cost research equipment.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Educational institutions and nonprofit scientific research organizations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Educational institutions and nonprofit scientific research organizations.
Credentials/Documentation:
  The following documentation is required to be submitted with offerors
  proposals: Cover page and information requested thereon (ARO Form 51);
  Statement of Disclosure Preference (AR Form 52 or 52A); Abstract; Technical
  Proposal; and Cost Proposal including SF 1411. The technical portion of the
  proposal should contain the following: A complete discussion stating the
  background and objectives of the proposed work; information that will identify
  the magnitude of the research program currently underway by the proposed
  principal investigator(s) such as (i) description of the work, (ii) the annual dollar
  volume of the effort, (iii) the names Federal, State, local agencies or other parties
  presently funding the work or requested to fund such work, and (iv) a complete
  breakdown of the time of the principal investigator and/or co-principal
  investigator; brief biographical information and list of recent publications of the
  offeror's key personnel who will be involved in the research; type of support
  requested, for example, facilities, equipment, materials; names of other Federal,
  State, local agencies or other parties receiving the proposal and/or funding the
  proposed effort; statement regarding possible impact if any of the proposed
  effort on the environment; brief description of organization; and identity of
  facilities to be used for the work if appropriate for an understanding of the
  proposal. The cost proposal must be a complete and thoroughly documented
  estimate of the proposed costs of the research project.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  This program is subject to OMB Circular No. A-110. All eligible organizations
  may submit proposals in response to ARO's general and specific broad agency
  announcements (BAAs) published annually or as the need arises in the Federal
  Business Opportunities (www.fedbizopps.gov). Information regarding areas of
  scientific interest and points of contact are contained in the BAAs. Application
  and award procedures are also contained in the BAA brochures. Pre-proposal
  contacts are encouraged prior to submission of a formal application.
Award Procedure:
  Upon receipt of a proposal, the ARO scientific staff will perform an initial
  review of its scientific merit and potential contribution to the Army mission and
  also determine if funds are expected to be available for the effort. Proposals not
  considered to have sufficient scientific merit or relevance to the Army's needs or
  those in areas for which funds are not expected to be available may be declined
  without further review. Proposals not declined as a result of the initial review
  may be subject to an extensive peer review by highly qualified scientists from
  within the government and leading scientists and other preeminent experts
  outside the government. Each proposal will be evaluated based on how the
  proposal relates to the overall ARO program rather than against other proposals
  for research in the same general area normally using the following factors: (1)
  overall scientific and/or technical merits; (2) military and program relevance; (3)
  capabilities, related experience, facilities, techniques or unique combinations of
  these; (4) qualifications, capabilities and experience of the proposed principal
  investigator, team leader or other key personnel; (5) record of past performance;
  and (6) reasonableness and realism of proposed costs. If selected for award, the
  proposal is incorporated into a grant document and the awardee agrees to
  perform the research described therein.
Deadlines:
  Proposals may be submitted at any time during the indicated submission time
  contained in the BAA.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Formal proposals are normally reviewed and notification made within six
  months from submission. Grant awards are usually made within three months
  from notification.
Appeals:
