  Not applicable.                                                                  
Renewals:                                                                          
  Once a grant is awarded, any follow-on research proposal is treated as a new     
  request. Follow-on work should allow for the review time noted in the "award     
  procedure" above.                                                                
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                 
  This program has no statutory formula.                                           
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                             
  The length of time for which support is requested should be consistent with the  
  nature and complexity of the proposed research. It is preferred that proposals   
  submitted cover a three year period with each year proposed as a severable unit. 
  The maximum period acceptable for a research proposal is five years. Funds are   
  normally provided in individual grants according to a quarterly schedule of      
  payments.                                                                        
Reports:                                                                           
  Quarterly financial reports (SF 272) and a final transactions report (SF 269) are
  required. Additionally, grants require interim technical, progress and final     
  reports as outlined in ARO Form 18, U.S. Army Research Office Reporting          
  Instructions; a copy of which is provided to each awardee. In addition, awardees 
  are required to provide ARO copies of manuscripts and reprints.                  
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June      
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit                  
  Organizations," non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit         
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a    
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, 
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.                                           
Records:                                                                           
  Recipients are required to maintain records adequate to document costs incurred. 
   Financial records, supporting documents, statistical records and all other      
  records pertinent to an agreement will be retained for a period of 3 years. The  
  retention period starts from the date of the submission of the final expenditure 
  report or, for grants that are renewed annually, from the date of the submission 
  of the annual financial status report. The recipient will allow access to any    
  pertinent books, documents, papers, and records of the recipient organization    
  and their subrecipients to make audits, examinations, excerpts and transcripts.  
Account Identification:                                                            
  97-0400-0-1-051.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 07 est not reported; FY 08 est not reported; and FY 09 est not reported.      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  $25,000 to $1,000,000.                                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  None.                                                                            
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  U.S. Army Research Office Broad Agency Announcement (BAA) is available           
  without cost from the sponsoring agency. OMB Circular Nos. A-110, A- 133,        
  A-88, and A-21; DoD Instruction 3218.2; DoD Directive 3210.2; DoD Directive      
  3210.6; are applicable to the project grants.                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Not applicable.                                                                  
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Dr. George Neece, U.S. Army Research Office, ATTN: AMXRO-RT, P. O. Box           
  12211, Research Triangle Park, NC 27709-2211. Telephone: (919) 549-4204;         
  DSN 832-4204.                                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  http://www.amc.army.mil.                                                         
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  None.                                                                            
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  1. Research entitled Focused Ion Beam Fabrication of Microelectronic             
  Structures at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; 2. research entitled    
  Manufacturing Science Reliability and Maintainability Technology at the          
  University of Delaware; 3. National Defense Science and Engineering Graduate     
  Fellowship in Materials Science with Dr. Patrick T. Mather at the University of  
  California; 4. Center of Excellence in Rotary Wing Technology at Rensselaer      
  Polytechnic Institute; and 5. Research performed by a historically black         
  college/university entitled Computational Methods for the Simulation of Non-     
  Newtonian Flows at Hampton University.                                           
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  
  The criteria for selecting proposals are as indicated in the Award Procedures.   
                                                                                   
                                                                                   
12.550 NATIONAL FLAGSHIP LANGUAGE PROGRAM                                          
GRANTS TO U.S. INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER                                              
EDUCATION                                                                          
                                                                                   
   (National Security Education Program (NSEP))                                    
                                                                                   
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                    


                                                                              11-08
  OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE FOR PERSONNEL
  AND READINESS, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION:
  50 U.S.C. 1901-1911.
OBJECTIVES:
  (1) To establish centers for the teaching of critical languages to the ILR level 3
  (ACTFL Superior level) and beyond in Arabic, Chinese, Russian, Korean,
  Persian, Hindi, and Urdu; (2) To develop curricular, institutional, and
  instructional models for advanced language learning; (3) To test those models;
  (4) To stimulate institutional support and long term commitment to reforming
  language learning; and (5) To improve national capacity in critical languages.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Grant awards are made to U.S. institutions of higher education to develop or
  strengthen their capabilities to enhance the national capacity and educate U.S.
  citizens in critical languages & cultures together with a variety of academic and
  professional disciplines. The National Security Education Act places no special
  or unique requirements on grantee institutions. Only requirements that govern all
  Federal grants will apply to NSEP grants. No International exchange programs
  may be funded by NSEP.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Any accredited U.S. institution of higher education (defined in Section 1201(a)
  of the Higher Education Act of 1965, 20 U.S.C. 1141(a) is eligible to apply for a
  grant. This includes 2 and 4 year colleges and universities, both public and
  private. Other organizations, associations, agencies, and foreign institutions
  may be included in proposals but may not be direct recipients of a grant. Federal
  government schools are not eligible.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Accredited U.S. institutions of higher education and their students.
Credentials/Documentation:
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  All eligible, private and public U.S. institutions of higher education may submit
  proposals in response to the relevant agency announcements.
Award Procedure:
  Award decisions will be based on a competitive selection of proposals resulting
  from an independent merit review.
Deadlines:
  Specified in requests for applications released on behalf of NSEP by the Institute
  of International Education Center (IIE) and the Center for Applied Study of
  Languages (CASL).
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  From 45 to 60 days at each stage of a two-stage process.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  Renewals are negotiated through IIE, and are conducted annually based on
  performance.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  No less than 25% of the grant supported program costs are required to be shared
  by a grant recipient.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Grants are multi-year renewed each year based on performance.
Reports:
  Semi-annual progress reports.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
  year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a year in Federal
  awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year, except as noted
  in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  The Comptroller General of the United States or a duly authorized representative
  from the General Accounting Office shall, until 3 years after final payment under
  this grant have access to and right to examine any of the recipient's directly
  pertinent books, documents, papers, or other records involving transactions
  related to this grant.
Account Identification:
  97-0100-0-1-051.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $12,000,000; FY 08 est $12,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Grants ranges from $150,000 to $1,000,000 annually for multi-year projects.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Participants in NSEP grant programs are provided instruction in Arabic, Hindi,
  Urdu, Central Asian Languages, Russian, Korean, Persian, and Mandarin
                                                                                  277
