  Fellowship awards are made to degree-seeking graduate-level U.S. citizens who     
  are enrolled in academic and professional programs at a U.S. institution of       
  higher education to study in critical world areas. All Boren Fellowship recipients
  agree to seek employment with the U.S. federal government, and serve for a        
  period of time equal to the length of the award but no less than one year.        
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  Any U.S. citizen enrolled in an accredited public or private U.S. institution of  
  higher education (defined in Section 1201(a) of the Higher Education Act of       
  1965, 20 U.S.C. 1141(a)) is eligible to apply for a graduate fellowship. Students 
  enrolled in Federal government schools are not eligible.                          
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  U.S. students enrolled in public or private accredited U.S. institutions of higher
  education.                                                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Proof of enrollment and proof of U.S. citizenship.                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.

Application Procedure:

  All eligible, U.S. graduate students may apply for fellowships in response to the 
  relevant agency announcement.                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Award decisions will be based on a competitive selection of proposals resulting

  from an independent merit review.                                                 
Deadlines:                                                                          
  Specified in annual application, usually in January or February.                  
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                    
  From 70 to 90 days.

                                                                                    
Appeals:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
Renewals:

                                                                                    
  Boren Fellows who achieve an advanced level of language proficiency (ACTFL

                                                                                    
  Advanced) in Arabic, Korean, Mandarin, Persian, Russian other select languages

                                                                                    
  are eligible to apply for a National Flagship Language Program Fellowship.

                                                                                    
Formula and Matching Requirements:

                                                                                    
  None.

                                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  Eligible students may receive a fellowship from NSEP to study for no less than    
  one academic semester and no more than 12 months overseas, and up to 4            
  semesters domestically. Domestic study is not a required application component    
                                                                                    
  to receive funding. Domestic study is limited to language or area studies that

                                                                                    
  enhance a degree program. Total maximum duration is two years.

                                                                                    
Reports:

                                                                                    
  Semi-annual progress reports are required while receiving funding followed by

                                                                                    
  annual service agreement reports until service requirement is fulfilled.

                                                                                    
Audits:

  None.                                                                             
                                                                                    
Records:

  Not applicable.                                                                   
Account Identification:                                                             
  97-0100-0-1-051.                                                                  
Obligations:                                                                        
  FY 07 est $2,000,000; FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.        
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                          
  Up to $24,000 for overseas study, and up to $12,000 for domestic study for a      
  maximum of up to $30,000. Average awards are approximately $20,000 per            
  fellow. If only requesting funding for overseas study, it must be at least two    
  semesters in duration. If including a domestic study component, the overseas      
  portion of the funding request must be higher.                                    
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                            
  Since 1996, NSEP has awarded over 1100 Boren Fellowships to U.S. citizens         
  from all 50 States and the District of Columbia. These fellowships have enabled   
  study of over 91 less-commonly taught languages in 105 less-commonly studied      
  countries and world regions.                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                            
  50 U.S.C. 1901-1911 (Chap. 37); Department of Defense Instructions 1025.02,       
  "National Security Education Program," March 09, 2006; and Department of          
  Defense Instruction 1025.6, "National Security Education Program Service          
  Agreement," December 20, 1996.                                                    
Regional or Local Office:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Headquarters Office:                                                                
  Dr. Kevin Gormley, Department of Defense, National Security Education             
  Program, Rosslyn P.O. Box 20010, 1101 Wilson Blvd, Suite 1210, Arlington,         
  VA 22209-2248. Telephone: (703)696-1991, E-Mail Address: nsepo@ndu.edu            
                                                                                    
  or Mr. Christopher Powers, Institute of International Education, NSEP David L.

                                                                                    
  Boren Fellowship Program, 1400 K Street, NW, Washington, DC 20005-2403.

                                                                                    
  Telephone: (800)618-6737, E-mail Address: nsep@iie.org.

                                                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                   
  http://www.iie.org/programs/nsep/graduate/                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                   
  12.551, National Security Education Program David L. Boren Scholarships;



                                                                               11-08
  12.553, National Flagship Language Program Fellowships.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  A Ph.D. candidate researching infectious diseases in Malaysia, while studying
  Malay; a Master's degree student learning Russian and studying Russian
  environmental policy and business developments; a Ph.D. student researching
  nationalist movements in the former Soviet Union, studying both Turkish and
  Uzbek; a Master's degree student studying both Mandarin and Cantonese while
  researching U.S. business firms hoping to establish competitive trade platforms
  in the Far East; and a Ph.D. student reviewing Japan's foreign aid policy towards
  Africa, while studying Japanese.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Boren Fellowship recipients are selected based on merit including (1) academic
  record and potential to succeed in the proposed study, (2) commitment to federal
  service, (3) language interests and aptitude, and (4) quality and appropriateness
  of the proposed program and its relevance to the National Security Education
  Program.
12.553 NATIONAL FLAGSHIP LANGUAGE PROGRAM
FELLOWSHIPS
   National Security Education Program (NSEP)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF THE UNDER SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, PERSONNEL AND
  READINESS, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION:
  50 U.S.C. 1901-1911.
OBJECTIVES:
  The National Flagship Language Program (NFLP) is designed to address the
  urgent and growing need for Americans with professional levels of competency
  in languages critical to national security. NFLP offers advanced language
  training in Arabic, Hindi, Korean, Mandarin, Persian, Russian, and Urdu. NFLP
  is designed to train participants to reach professional working proficiency in a
  target language, as measured by the federal Interagency Language Roundtable
  (ILR) level 3 and/or the American Council on the Teaching of Foreign
  Languages (ACTFL) superior level.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Fellowships).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Fellowship awards are made to U.S. citizens with at least a bachelor's degree
  who enroll in domestic and overseas study through one of the designated NFLP
  institutions. Flagship Fellowship recipients agree to seek employment with the
  U.S. federal government, and serve for a period of time equal to the length of the
  award but no less than one year.
Applicant Eligibility:
  (1) Must be a U.S. citizen at the time of application; (2) Must have a minimum
  proficiency in the appropriate foreign language of advanced low (as defined by
  ACTFL) or level 2 (as defined by ILR). You must also possess excellent skills in
  English (ILR level 3/ACTFL superior language proficiency or higher in all
  modalities of English); (3) Must complete an undergraduate degree by the time
  you would begin the NFLP Fellowship. Past recipients of NSEP Boren
  Undergraduate Scholarships or Graduate Fellowships are eligible and are
  encouraged to apply to this program; and (4) may not be a current U.S.
  government employee.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Accredited U.S. institutions of higher education, their students.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Proof of U.S. citizenship and at least a bachelor's degree by the time
  participation in the NFLP begins.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  All eligible, U.S. citizens may apply for fellowships in response to the relevant
  agency announcement.
Award Procedure:
  Award decisions will be based on a competitive selection of proposals resulting
  from an independent merit review.
Deadlines:
  Specified in annual application, usually in January.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Between 70 and 90 days.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  None.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Eligible students may receive a fellowship from NSEP to study for no less than
  one academic year, and no more than two (2) years in a combination of domestic
                                                                                   279
