  to have a Project Manager assigned who, in turn, will work with the applicant to    
  determine eligibility for assistance under this program. States, cities, counties,  
  other political subdivisions of a State, special purpose units of a State or local  
  government, and tribal nations are eligible for this assistance if there is a       
  proposed or actual establishment, realignment, or closure of a military             
  installation. In the case of the establishment or expansion of a military           
  installation, assistance may be made only if community impact assistance is not     
  otherwise available.                                                                
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  States and communities, including workers, businesses, and other community          
  interests that may be affected by Department of Defense activity.                   
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Applicants must document: (1) an establishment, expansion, realignment, or          
  closure of a military installation has occurred or will occur; and (2) any known    
  or anticipated local impacts from the action on the beneficiary. The assigned       
  OEA Project Manager will work with the Applicant to identify other necessary        
  information.                                                                        
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Parties interested in obtaining assistance under this program should contact        
  OEA at: Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of Defense, 400         
  Army Navy Drive, Suite 200, Arlington, VA 22202-4704, (703)604-6020, or by          
  E-mail at oeafeedback@wso.whs.mil. OEA, in turn, will assign a Project              
  Manager to work closely with the affected State or community to craft a             
  responsive program of technical and, where eligible, project grants. The Project    
  Manager will provide necessary information to prepare and submit an                 
  application for financial assistance under this program. Additionally, E.O.         
  12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs," applies to this              
  program. An applicant should consult their respective office or official            
  designated as the single point of contact for their State for more information on   
  the process that the State may require to be followed in applying for assistance.   
Application Procedure:                                                                
  Applications are necessary for the project grants available under this program      
  and must be invited by the Office of Economic Adjustment through an assigned        
  Project Manager. The standard application forms required by 32 CFR Part 33,         
  Uniform Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements           
  to State and Local Governments will comprise an application for assistance once     
  they are invited. Applications and supporting documentation should be               
  submitted to the Director of the Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of       
  Defense. Applicants will generally be invited to submit their requests for          
  assistance electronically. In instances where, for whatever reason, an electronic   
  application cannot be submitted, provisions will be made to accept a paper          
  application addressed to: Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, Department       
  of Defense, 400 Army Navy Drive, Suite 200, Arlington, VA 22202-4704.               
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  None.                                                                               
Deadlines:                                                                            
  None.                                                                               
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  To the extent practicable, OEA will inform an Applicant of approval within          
  seven business days of the receipt of a final, completed application. OEA will      
  promptly inform an applicant of the rejection of any application once its due       
  diligence has been completed.

Appeals:

  None.

                                                                                      
Renewals:                                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  This program has no statutory formula. Generally, not less than 10 percent of       
  the project's total proposed funding is to be comprised of non-federal sources.     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  A grant period is typically one year. Funds are disbursed on a quarterly basis, or  
  as required.                                                                        
Reports:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of             
  States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations".                            
Records:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Account Identification:                                                               
  97-0100-0-7-051.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $60,000,000; FY 08 est $45,000,000; and FY 09 est not reported.

                                                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $50,000 - $2,000,000; $500,000.

                                                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:

                                                                                      
  Through the previous four rounds of base closures and realignments, more than

                                                                                      
  $280 million has been provided to over 70 local adjustment efforts that, in turn,

                                                                                      
  have converted former defense facilities to productive mixed civilian use,

                                                                                      
  including residential, commercial, office, retail, and manufacturing. These

                                                                                      


282                                                                             11-08

  efforts, beyond expanding the local tax base, have created over 135,000 jobs to
  more than offset the 130,000 jobs lost as a result of the Defense activity.
  Additionally, important public uses on over 48,000 acres have been facilitated,
  including public airports, educational facilities, parks and recreational facilities,
  public health and safety centers, ports, and correctional facilities.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  OMB Circular Nos. A-133 Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit
  Organizations and A-87 Cost Principles for State, Local, and Indian Tribal
  Governments. 32 CFR Part 25 - Government-wide Debarment and Suspension
  (Non-procurement); 32 CFR Part 26 - Drug-Free Workplace; 32 CFR Part 28 -
  New Restrictions on Lobbying; 32 CFR Part 33 - Uniform Administrative
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local
  Governments. These and related publications are available on the OEA Website
  at http://www.oea.gov, under eGrants, Other Federal Grant Links.
Regional or Local Office:
  Western Region Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of
  Defense, 1325 J Street, Suite 1500, Sacramento, CA 95814. Telephone: (916)
  557-7365.
Headquarters Office:
  Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of Defense, 400 Army
  Navy Drive, Suite 200, Arlington, VA 22202-4704. Telephone: (703) 604-6020.
  E-mail: oeafeedback@wso.whs.mil.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.oea.gov .
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  11.307, Economic Adjustment Assistance; 12.610, Community Economic
  Adjustment Planning Assistance for Joint Land Use Studies; 12.611 Community
  Economic Adjustment Planning Assistance for Reductions in Defense Industry
  Employment; 12.614, Community Economic Adjustment Diversification
  Planning; 14.218, Community Development Block Grants/Entitlement Grants;
  14.219,Community Development Block Grants/Small Cities Program; 17.260,
  WIA Dislocated Workers; 59.005, Internet-Based Technical Assistance; 59.012,
  7(a) Loan Guarantees.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Assistance was provided to support the actions of a Local Redevelopment
  Authority to organize itself to speak with one voice on behalf of an impacted
  area; conduct outreach to identify local homeless and community economic
  development needs and to balance them in the form of an economically- and
  environmentally-sustainable local redevelopment plan; and undertake business
  planning analyses and engage in other economic development activity to
  redevelop former military installations. Communities anticipating mission
  growth were provided assistance to work across local political jurisdictions to
  gauge likely demands/need for hard (housing, roads, schools, water and sewer)
  and soft (health, child care, public safety) infrastructure, including business
  plans to identify sustainable public financing and opportunities to leverage
  private and third party investment. States have received assistance to coordinate
  various State programs of assistance to assist local adjustment efforts, including
  staff assistance and regional capacity-building.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Magnitude of impact, statutory compliance, immediacy of need, reasonableness
  of proposed work program and the proposed level of funding.
12.610 COMMUNITY ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT
PLANNING ASSISTANCE FOR JOINT LAND USE STUDIES
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION:
  Defense Authorization Act, 10 U.S.C. 2391.
OBJECTIVES:
  To assist local and State governments in preparing and adopting a planning
  study to mitigate or prevent incompatible community development that is likely
  to impair the continued operational utility of a Department of Defense (DoD)
  military installation. Grantees and participating governments are expected to
  adopt and implement the study recommendations.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  DoD funding may be provided to develop and recommend civilian measures that
  need to be taken to prevent public or private development that either presently or
  in the future will likely impair the operations of a military installation. Funding
  may also be made available to carry out the recommendations of a study.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Local governments, States on behalf of local governments, or regional
  organizations composed of State or local governments may be eligible if the
  criteria below are met and the installation they are responding to is located
  within any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of
  Puerto Rico, or Guam. An applicant may be eligible for DoD funding if: (a) the
  Secretary of Defense determines that encroachment of the civilian community on
  a military installation is likely to impair the continued operational utility of the
