  military installation; (b) the installation has been nominated for a study by the
  appropriate Military Department; and (c) the affected jurisdictions desire to    
  work with the Military Department to address civilian encroachment through       
  local land use planning.

Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                           
  Local governments, States on behalf of local governments, and regional

  organizations composed of State and local governments that represent the         
  affected area.                                                                   
Credentials/Documentation:

                                                                                   
  Documentation in the form of locally-adopted resolutions or similar actions that

                                                                                   
  indicate the affected government(s) will cooperate and participate in the        
  development and implementation of the Joint Land Use Study. Also required is     
  evidence that the proposed planning process and implementation of study          
  recommendations will prevent further encroachment on the military installation.  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                       
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental       
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official  
  designated as the single point of contact for the State for more information on  
  the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the 
  State has selected the program for review. Communities interested in obtaining   
  DoD funding for community economic adjustment planning activities should         
  contact DoD's Office of Economic Adjustment for pre-application assistance.      
Application Procedure:                                                             
  The standard application forms required by 32 CFR Part 33 must be used for       
  this program. Applications and supporting documentation should be submitted      
  to the Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of Defense, 400       
  Army Navy Drive, Suite 200, Arlington, VA 22202-4704. Applicants are             
  encouraged to use the web-based eGrants application option available on the      
  OEA homepage at http://www.oea.gov.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                   
  Applications are approved by the Director, Office of Economic Adjustment.        
Deadlines:                                                                         
  None.                                                                            
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                
  To the extent practicable, complete applications for planning assistance are

                                                                                   
  responded to within seven business days from receipt.

                                                                                   
Appeals:

                                                                                   
  None.

                                                                                   
Renewals:

                                                                                   
  None.

                                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:

  This program has no statutory formula. A minimum of 25 percent of the            
  project's total proposed funding is to be comprised of non-Federal sources.      
                                                                                   
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

  A grant period is typically one year. Funds are disbursed quarterly or as        
  required.                                                                        
Reports:                                                                           
  Quarterly financial and progress reports are required.                           
Audits:                                                                            
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133, "Audits of          
  States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit Organizations."                        
Records:                                                                           
  In accordance with 32 CFR 33.                                                    
Account Identification:                                                            
  97-0100-0-7-051.                                                                 
Obligations:                                                                       
  FY 07 est $1,200,000; and FY 08 est not available; and FY 09 est not reported.   
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                         
  $45,000 - $90,000; $70,000.                                                      
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                           
  Communities developed joint land use studies and implemented                     
  recommendations that helped limit encroachment and avoid inappropriate           
  development near military bases.                                                 
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                           
  OMB Circular Nos. A-133 and A-87, and 32 CFR Parts 25, 28 and 33. Related        
  publications are available on the OEA website at no charge.                      
Regional or Local Office:                                                          
  Regional Director, Western Region Office of Economic Adjustment, Department      
  of Defense, 1325 J Street, Suite 1500, Sacramento, CA 95814. Telephone: (916)    
  557-7365.                                                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                               
  Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of Defense, 400 Army         
  Navy Drive, Suite 200, Arlington, VA 22202-4704. Telephone: (703) 604-6020.      
Web Site Address:                                                                  
  E-mail address: oeafeedback@osd.mil Website: http://www.oea.gov.                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                  
  12.600, Community Economic Adjustment.                                           
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                       
  Funds were provided to develop Joint Land Use Studies that helped communities    
  plan for compatible use near military bases.                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                  


                                                                              11-08
  Seriousness of the problem, immediacy of need, benefits to DoD and the
  participating government(s), and reasonableness of proposed work program and
  level of funding, and likelihood that the recommendations will be implemented.
12.611 COMMUNITY ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT
PLANNING ASSISTANCE FOR REDUCTIONS IN DEFENSE
INDUSTRY EMPLOYMENT
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE
AUTHORIZATION:
  10 U.S.C. 2391.
OBJECTIVES:
  Assistance for States and communities to prepare and carry out community
  adjustment and economic diversification activites in response to reductions in
  defense industry employment resulting from: a publicly announced planned
  major reduction in Department of Defense (DoD) spending; the closure or
  significantly reduced operations of a defense facility as the result of the merger,
  acquistion, or consolidation of the defense contractor operating the defense
  facility; the cancellation or termination of a DoD contract; or the failure to
  proceed with an approved major weapon system program.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Assistance is structured through an assigned Project Manager working with an
  affected State and/or local government, and may be used to plan and carry out
  local economic adjustment programs, including, but not limited to; assessment
  of local economic strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats; staffing,
  operating and administrative costs for an organization to represent the affected
  community; review of local Defense prime and sub contracting activity;
  outreach to local small businesses, workers, and other community interests; and,
  facility evaluations. Funds provided under this program may not be used to
  directly identify or assist a business, including a business expansion, in the
  relocation of a plant, facility, or operation from one Labor Market Area (LMA)
  to another if the relocation is likely to result in the los of jobs in the LMA from
  wich the relocation occurs.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Applicants for this assistance are to contact the Office of Econimic Adjustment
  to have a Project Manager assigned who, in turn, will work with the applicant to
  determine eligibility for assistance under this program. States, cities, counties,
  other political subdivisions of a State, special purpose units of a State or local
  government, and tribal nations are eligible for this assistance if there is; a
  publicly announced planned major reduction in Department of Defense (DoD)
  spending; the closure or significantly reduced operations of a defense facility as
  the result of the merger, acquisition, or consolidation of the defense contractor
  operating the defense facility; the cancellation or termination of a DoD contract;
  or the failure to proceed with an approved major weapon system program.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  States and communities, including workers, businesses, and other community
  interests, that may be affected by Defense actions.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must document; 1) the publicly announced Defense action that has
  occurred or will occur; and 2) the known or anticipated impacts on the applicant
  due to the closure, reduction, cancellation, termination, or failute to proceed.
Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental
  Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official
  designated as the single point of contact for the State for more information on
  the process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the
  State has selected the program for review. Communities interested in obtaining
  DoD funding for community economic adjustment planning activities should
  contact DoD's Office of Economic Adjustment for pre-application guidance.
Application Procedure:
  The standard application forms required by 32 CFR Part 33 must be used for
  this program. Applications and supporting documentation should be submitted
  to the Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of Defense, 400
  Army Navy Drive, Suite 200, Arlington, VA 22202-4704. Applicants are
  encouraged to use the web-based eGrants application option available on the
  OEA homepage at http://www.oea.gov.
Award Procedure:
  Applications are approved by the Director, Office of Economic Adjustment.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  To the extent practicable, complete applications for planning assistance are
  responded to within 7 business days from receipt. Complete applications for
  assistance to carry out community adjustment programs are responded to within
  30 business days from receipt, to the extent practicable.
Appeals:
  None.
                                                                                    283
