  OMB Circular Nos. A-133 Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit         
  Organizations and A-87 Cost Principles for State, Local, and Indian Tribal         
  Governments. 32 CFR Part 25 - Government-wide Debarment and Suspension             
  (Non-procurement); 32 CFR Part 26 - Drug-Free Workplace; 32 CFR Part 28 -          
  New Restrictions on Lobbying; 32 CFR Part 33 - Uniform Administrative              
  Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State and Local              
  Governments. Related publications are available on the OEA Website.                
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  Western Region Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of              
  Defense, 1325 J Street, Suite 1500, Sacramento, CA 95814. Telephone: (916)         
  557-7365.                                                                          
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of Defense, 400 Army           
  Navy Drive, Suite 200, Arlington, VA 22202-4704. Telephone: (703) 604-6020.        
  E-mail: oeafeedback@wso.whs.mil.                                                   
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.oea.gov .                                                               
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  11.307, Economic Adjustment Assistance; 12.607, Community Economic                 
  Adjustment Assistance for Establishment, Expansion, Realignment, or Closure        
  of a Military Installation; 12.610, Community Economic Adjustment Planning         
  Assistance for Joint Land Use Studies; 12.611 Community Economic                   
  Adjustment Planning Assistance for Reductions in Defense Industry                  
  Employment; 14.218, Community Development Block Grants/Entitlement                 
  Grants; 14.219,Community Development Block Grants/Small Cities Program;            
  17.260, WIA Dislocated Workers; 59.012, 7(a) Loan Guarantees.                      
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Funds were provided to plan and carry out community adjustment and economic        
  diversification activities.                                                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                    
  The level of economic dependence on military, DoD civilian and Defense             
  industry employment, an appropriate and clear project design to address the need   
  identified, the innovative quality of the proposed approach to stimulating         
  economic adjustment and economic diversification, reasonableness of the            
  proposed work program and the proposed level of funding.                           
                                                                                     
12.615 RESEARCH AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE                                             
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  OFFICE OF ECONOMIC ADJUSTMENT, DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  10 U.S.C. 2391(c).                                                                 
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  The Office of Economic Adjustment (OEA), a field activity under the                
  Department of Defense (DoD), is authorized to make awards to, or conclude          
  cooperative agreements with State or local governments or any nongovernmental      
  or other private entity, to conduct research and provide technical assistance      
  related to community economic adjustment needs and assistance. Awards              
  provided under this notice support the Office of Economic Adjustment as well as    
  the Defense Economic Adjustment Program (DEAP) by: (1) developing and              
  analyzing information for program and policy considerations; and (2)               
  undertaking special research.                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Subject to need and availability of funds, this program provides financial         
  assistance for approved research and technical assistance projects in the form of  
  grants or cooperative agreements.                                                  
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Topics and areas of specific interest to OEA may be identified in a Federal        
  Register Notice of Funding Availability (the Notice) issued under this program.    
  Proposals outside of a Notice, or beyond the identified topics and areas of        
  interest in a Notice, will also be considered. Activities under this program must  
  relate to assisting State and local governments to plan and/or carry out           
  community adjustments and economic diversification required by: the proposed       
  or actual establishment, realignment, or closure of a military installation; the   
  cancellation or termination of a Department of Defense contract or the failure to  
  proceed with an approved major weapon system program; a publicly announced         
  planned major reduction in Department of Defense spending that would               
  adversely affect a community; the encroachment on a military installation; or,     
  the closure or the significantly reduced operations of a defense facility as the   
  result of the merger, acquisition, or consolidation of the defense contractor      
  operating the facility. Funding may be used only for non-construction activities.  
Applicant Eligibility:                                                               
  Eligible applicants include a State or local government, or any private entity. A  
  "private entity" is defined for purposes of this listing as any entity that is non-
  governmental.                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                             
  Eligible applicants include a State or local government, or any private entity. A  
  "private entity" is defined for purposes of this listing as any entity that is non-
  governmental.                                                                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                           


                                                                                11-08
  None.
Preapplication Coordination:
  A Federal Register Notice of Funding Availability (the Notice) may be used to
  announce the availability of funds for specific research and technical assistance
  needs identified by OEA or proposed by the respondent. Proposals will be
  accepted for a period of sixty (60) days after the publication date of the Notice.
Application Procedure:
  The application process is two-part. The first part requires all interested
  respondents to the Notice to submit a proposal within the advertised solicitation
  period (sixty (60) days). Each proposal submitted must include a cover or
  transmittal letter and accompanying text that shall consist of no more than 10
  pages (single-sided), consisting of: An abstract of the proposed research or
  technical assistance; A description of the scope of work to be undertaken and
  how it responds to OEA and the Defense Economic Adjustment Program; A
  proposed budget and budget justification; Detailed description of the project
  team and their relevant experience; A project schedule for completion of the
  work; A point of contact. (In the case of a proposal on an unsolicited topic) A
  summary of the problem or issue the project will address. Proposals should be
  submitted by letter addressed to the Director, Office of Economic Adjustment,
  Department of Defense, 400 Army Navy Drive, Suite 200, Arlington, VA
  22202-4707, or may be submitted via the e-mail address (oeafeedback@osd.mil
  - reference RTA Proposal - in the subject).
Award Procedure:
  OEA will notify respondents within ninety (90) days of the date of publication of
  the Notice in the Federal Register whether their proposal will be invited for a
  formal application. At this point, OEA will assign a Project Manager to advise
  and assist with the preparation of the application. Applications will be reviewed
  for their completeness and accuracy, and, to the extent possible, an award
  notification will be issued within 30 days of the receipt of a complete
  application.
Deadlines:
  After the Notice is posted in the Federal Register, respondents will have sixty
  (60) days to submit a proposal.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  OEA will notify respondents within ninety (90) days of the Notice being
  published in the Federal Register whether their proposal was successful and
  invite an application. To the extent possible, an award notification will be
  issued within 30 days of the receipt of a complete application.
Appeals:
  None.
Renewals:
  None.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  OEA may fund up to 100 percent of the proposed budget depending on the
  nature of the project.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Project duration will vary according to the nature of the proposal, but is
  generally 12 to 18 months.
Reports:
  OEA requires interim performance reports and one final performance report for
  each award. The performance reports will contain information on the following:
  A comparison of actual accomplishments to the objectives established for the
  reporting period; Reasons for slippage if established objectives were not met;
  Additional pertinent information when appropriate; A comparison of actual and
  projected expenditures for the period; The amount of Federal cash on hand at the
  beginning and end of the reporting period. The final performance report must
  contain a summary of activities for the entire award period. All required
  deliverables should be submitted with the final performance report. The final SF
  269A, "Financial Status Report," must be submitted to OEA within ninety (90)
  days after the end date of the award. Any funds actually advanced and not
  needed for award purposes shall be returned immediately to OEA. OEA will
  provide a schedule for reporting periods and report due dates in the Award
  Agreement.
Audits:
  Standard Federal Audit requirements apply, as appropriate to the type of
  recipient.
Records:
  Standard Federal recordkeeping requirements apply, as appropriate to the type of
  recipient.
Account Identification:
  97-0100-0-7-051.
Obligations:
  FY 07 $643,287; FY 08 $1,092,332; and FY 09 $1,735,619.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  OEA expects proposals in the range of $100,000 to $500,000, supported
  accordingly by a clear project scope of work, budget justification, and project
  timeline.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
                                                                                  285
