  The Awardee and any consultant/contractor operating under the terms of a grant      
  or cooperative agreement shall comply with all Federal, State, and local laws       
  applicable to its activities including the following: 32 CFR Part 33, ¿Uniform      
  Administrative Requirements for Grants and Cooperative Agreements to State          
  and Local Governments¿; OMB Circulars A-87, "Cost Principles for State and          
  Local Governments" and the revised A-133, "Audits of States, Local                  
  Governments and Non-Profit Organizations"; 32 CFR Part 25, "Government-             
  wide Debarment and Suspension (Non-procurement)"; 32 CFR Part 26, "Drug-            
  free Workplace"; 32 CFR Part 32, Uniform Administrative Requirements for            
  Grants and Agreements to with Institutions of Higher Education, Hospitals, and      
  other Non-Profit Organizations; 32 CFR Part 34, Administrative Requirements         
  for Grants and Agreements with For-Profit Organizations; OMB Circular A-21          
  Cost Principles for Educational Institutions; OMB Circular A-122, Cost              
  Principles for Non-Profit Organizations; and 32 CFR Part 28, "New Restrictions      
  on Lobbying (Grants)."                                                              
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  None.                                                                               
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Director, Office of Economic Adjustment, Department of Defense, 400 Army            
  Navy Drive, Suite 200, Arlington, VA 22202-4704. Telephone: (703) 604-6020.         
  E-mail: oeafeedback@osd.mil.                                                        
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  Website: http://www.oea.gov.                                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  12.607, Community Economic Adjustment Assistance for Establishment,                 
  Expansion, Realignment, or Closure of a Military Installation; 12.610,              
  Community Economic Adjustment Planning Assistance for Joint Land Use                
  Studies; 12.611, Community Economic Adjustment Planning Assistance for              
  Reductions in Defense Industry Employment; 12.614, Community Economic               
  Adjustment Diversification Planning.                                                
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  None.                                                                               
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  OEA considers each of the following equally-balanced factors as a basis for         
  inviting formal award applications: Overall conformance with proposal               
  requirements; Overall responsiveness of the proposal to support the Office of       
  Economic Adjustment and Defense Economic Adjustment Program; Overall                
  expertise, experience, qualifications and ability of investigators; Overall         
  reasonableness of budgeted expenditures.                                            
                                                                                      
                                                                                      
12.630 BASIC, APPLIED, AND ADVANCED RESEARCH IN                                       
SCIENCE AND ENGINEERING                                                               
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY OF DEFENSE, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  DEFENSE                                                                             
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  10 U.S.C. 2358, as amended; 10 U.S.C. 2323; 10 U.S.C. 2391 et seq.                  
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To: (1) Discover new knowledge and gain better understanding in mathematical,       
  physical, engineering, environmental, and life sciences, and other fields with      
  good, long-term potential for contributing to technology for Department of          
  Defense missions; (2) facilitate transition of research results to practical        
                                                                                      
  application for defense needs; (3) improve linkages between defense research

                                                                                      
  and the civilian technology and industrial bases, to promote commercial

                                                                                      
  application of the results of defense research and commercial availability of

                                                                                      
  technology for defense needs; (4) foster education of future scientists and

                                                                                      
  engineers in disciplines critical to defense; and (5) strengthen the infrastructure

                                                                                      
  for research and related science and engineering education in those disciplines.

                                                                                      
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:

                                                                                      
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).

                                                                                      
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:

                                                                                      
  Uses and restrictions are specified in individual program announcements (Broad

  Agency Announcements, or BAAs) and award documents issued by and codified           
                                                                                      
  regulations applicable to awards. These are submitted at the time of proposal or

                                                                                      
  prior to award, as specified by executive agents.

                                                                                      
Applicant Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  As stated in individual BAAs (generally, competitions are open to private and

                                                                                      
  public educational institutions that carry out science and engineering research

                                                                                      
  and/or related science and engineering education on a nonprofit basis). Some

                                                                                      
  awards are made to other public or privae organizations. Awards are not made

                                                                                      
  to individuals.

                                                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:

                                                                                      
  Beneficiaries may include individual graduate and undergraduate students (e.g.,

                                                                                      
  recipients of fellowships or research traineeships) in science and engineering      
  disciplines important to defense, as well as institutions described under           
  "Applicant Eligibility."                                                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Recipient eligibility is contingent upon submission of certifications and           
  representations that are required by Federal statutes, executive orders.            
286                                                                             11-08

Preapplication Coordination:
  This program is excluded from coverage under E. O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  Institutions eligible to compete may submit proposals in response to Broad
  Agency Announcements (BAAs) that executive agents publish in Federal
  Business Opportunities (www.fedbizopps.gov) and circulate broadly to eligible
  proposers' sponsored-programs offices. Each BAA tells potential proposers what
  activities will be supported, in which science and engineering areas they will be
  supported, and how to apply.
Award Procedure:
  Award decisions are based on a competitive selection of proposals, using a
  technical merit review. Evaluation criteria are specified in the relevant Broad
  Agency Announcement. If selected for award, the proposal is the basis for the
  award document and the applicant agrees to perform the research or research-
  related activities (e.g., science or engineering education or research
  infrastructure-building activities) described therein.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines for submitting proposals are specified in the individual relevant Broad
  Agency Announcements.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Times vary, but award decisions are typically made within 90 to 120 days of
  receipt of the proposal.
Appeals:
  Appeal procedures are specified by the executive agents.
Renewals:
  Application for a competitive new award is permitted.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  There are no statutory formulas. Cost-sharing or matching, if required, would be
  specified in the individual Broad Agency Announcement.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Funding reflects period of performance and may be awarded incrementally.
Reports:
  Technical and financial reporting requirements are in accordance with terms and
  conditions of award documents and with Department of Defense implementation
  of applicable OMB Circular Nos. A- 110 and A-102.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A- 133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Non-Profit
  Organizations," non federal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000
  or more in Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit
  conducted for that year. Nonfederal entities that expend less than $500,000 a
  year in Federal awards are exempt from Federal audit requirements for that year,
  except as noted in Circular No. A-133.
Records:
  Recordkeeping requirements are in accordance with Department of Defense
  implementation of 12.300; the air force office of Scientific Research (listing
  12.800).
Account Identification:
  97-0400-0-1-051.
Obligations:
  (Cooperative Agreements) FY 07 est $215,000,000; FY 08 est not reported; and
  FY 09 est not reported. Note: No current information provided by Agency.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  $1,000 to $3,000,000. Average: $120,000.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Numerous research accomplishments and research training for more than 1,000
  graduate students in science and engineering areas with a high potential for
  long-term benefit to defense needs (areas such as electronics and electro-optics;
  materials science; fluid dynamics; biotechnology; manufacturing-related
  research; mathematics and computer sciences; and environmental science).
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  See program announcements (Broad Agency Announcements) issued by
  executive agents.
Regional or Local Office:
  Not applicable.
Headquarters Office:
  For information about open competitions or future opportunities, prospective
  proposers should contact the agents that execute the program. The executive
  agents are the Army Research Office (see information contacts in listing 12.431
  in this Catalog); the Office of Naval Research (listing 12.300); the Air Force
  Office of Scientific Research (listing 12.800); and the Advanced Research
  Projects Agency (listing 12.910).
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usace.army.mil/business.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  12.300, Basic and Applied Scientific Research; 12.431, Basic Scientific
  Research; 12.800, Air Force Defense Research Sciences Program; 12.910,
  Research and Technology Development.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  1. University research grants in areas such as: Materials degradation and fatigue;
  hypervelocity flow; organic superconductors; high-frequency microelectronics;
