  biodegradation of military toxic wastes; blue-green optoelectronic emitters;         
  robust geometric calculations; 3-D visualizations and design of large,               
  manufactured objects; 2. augmentation grants, in conjunction with DoD                
  contracts or grants for research performance, to provide additional research         
  assistantships and increase the number of graduate students receiving research       
  training through defense research; and 3. instrumentation grants, to allow the       
  purchase of more costly items of research equipment ($50,000 and up) that can        
  usually be funded within single-investigator research awards.                        
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Generally, the principal evaluation and selection criteria are the technical merits  
  of the proposed research (or research-related activity) and its potential            
  relationship in the long term to missions of the Department of Defense. Other        
  selection criteria vary with the nature of the specific research or research-related 
  activity. Typical examples include: Qualifications of the principal investigator     
  and other key personnel to perform the proposed activity; adequacy of current or     
                                                                                       
  planned facilities and equipment to do so; and realism and reasonableness of

                                                                                       
  proposed costs.

                                                                                       
                                                                                       
12.700 DONATIONS/LOANS OF OBSOLETE DOD                                                 
PROPERTY                                                                               
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  SECRETARIES OF MILITARY DEPARTMENTS, DEPARTMENT OF                                   
  DEFENSE                                                                              
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  10 U.S.C. 2572; 10 U.S.C. 7308; 10 U.S.C. 7545.                                      
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To donate or lend obsolete combat material to veterans' organizations, soldiers'     
  monument associations, State museums, incorporated museums, and                      
  incorporated municipalities.                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Use of Property, Facilities, and Equipment.                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  A donation or loan of books, manuscripts, works of art, drawings, plans, models,     
  and other specified items to be used only for historical, ceremonial or display      
  purposes. Determination of the item and quantity to be provided will be made by      
  the individual Secretaries of the Military Departments. Each donee must certify      
  that the property requested is for the donee's use and, when no longer required      
  by the donee, disposition instruction will be requested from the original donating   
  activity. If the item requires some demilitarization, pursuant to the Defense        
  Demilitarization Manual (DoD 4160.21-M-1), these costs will be borne by the          
  donee. Donees must not, without written consent of the Department of Navy,           
  use vessels for purposes other than as stated in the application, or destroy,        
  transfer or otherwise dispose of a vessel. Cost of packing and handling incident     
  to donations will be paid by the donee before release of the property. Instructions  
  regarding these actions are contained in the defense Utilization and Disposal        
  Manual (DOD 4160.21-M), Chapter X, Paragraphs F and G, and Attachments

  20 through 28.                                                                       
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Veterans' organizations recognized by the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary

  of Defense (LIMDM); museums operated and maintained for education purposes           
  only and which are tax- exempt; and incorporated municipalities. The                 
  Department of the Navy donates or loans additional types of condemned or             
  obsolete material and obsolete, condemned or captured vessels to States,             
  Territories, Commonwealths, or possessions of the United States, political           
  subdivisions or municipal incorporations thereof, the District of Columbia, the      
  Canal Zone, libraries, historical societies, educational institutions whose          
  graduates or students fought in World War I or World War II, recognized              
  veterans organizations and to nonprofit organizations operated and maintained        
  for educational purposes only.                                                       
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  Veterans' organizations recognized by the Office of the Deputy Under Secretary       
  of Defense (LIMDM); museums operated and maintained for education purposes           
  only and are tax-exempt; and incorporated municipalities.                            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  Veterans' organizations must obtain written approval for a donation or loan from     
  Headquarters of their association and must submit a copy of the approval with        
  their application. When material of possible historical interest is being donated,   
  prior approval will be obtained from the appropriate military curator. With          
  regard to vessels, the applicant must locate a vessel in a donable status before     
  submitting an application. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.         
  12372.                                                                               
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Application for donations or loans will be made to the Secretary of the Military     
  Department which has control of the desired items in accordance with prescribed      
  procedures. Donation of material under 10 U.S.C. 7308 and 10 U.S.C. 7545             
  requires referral to Congress.                                                       
Award Procedure:                                                                       


                                                                                  11-08
  None.
Deadlines:
  Requests must be received before items are reported for sale or other scheduled
  disposal action.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Not applicable.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Not applicable.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  Not applicable.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Annual report of the location and condition of loaned or donated property.
Audits:
  Not applicable.
Records:
  Not applicable.
Account Identification:
  Not applicable.
Obligations:
  FY 07 est not reported; FY 08 est not reported; and FY 09 est not reported.
  Note: No current information provided by Agency.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Not applicable.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  None.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Defense Utilization and Disposal Manual (DOD 4160.21-M, Chapter X,
  paragraphs F and G and Attachments 20 through 28).
Regional or Local Office:
  Nearest military installation for general information on the subject. Requests
  which cannot be handled at the local level should be referred to the appropriate
  departmental headquarters.
Headquarters Office:
  Appropriate Military Department, Pentagon, Washington, DC 20301.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.usace.army.mil/business.html.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  39.003, Donation of Federal Surplus Personal Property; 39.007, Sale of Federal
  Surplus Personal Property.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
12.800 AIR FORCE DEFENSE RESEARCH SCIENCES
PROGRAM
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  DEPARTMENT OF THE AIR FORCE, HQ AIR FORCE MATERIAL
  COMMAND, AIR FORCE OFFICE OF SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH,
  ARMSTRONG LABORATORY, PHILLIPS LABORATORY, ROME
  LABORATORY, WRIGHT LABORATORY
AUTHORIZATION:
  Public Law 100-370, Section 1(g)(3), 1023 Stat. 846, 10 U.S.C. 2368(a); Public
  Law 100-456, Division A, Title II, Section 204; 84 Stat. 908, 10 U.S.C.
  2358(b)(1), (c)(1); 95 Stat. 1404, 1405, 10 U.S.C. 2361.
OBJECTIVES:
  To maintain technological superiority in the scientific areas relevant to Air Force
  needs; to prevent technological surprise to our nation and create it for our
  adversaries; to maintain a strong research infrastructure composed of Air Force
  laboratories, industry, and universities; and to complement the national research
  effort.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Funds must be expended in furtherance of the research identified in the proposal,
  in accordance with the cost principles as established in OMB Circular Nos. A-21
  and A-122.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Private/public educational institutions; other private/public nonprofit
  organizations which are operated primarily for scientific, educational, or similar
  purposes in the public interest, and commercial concerns.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Private/public educational institutions; other private/public nonprofit
  organizations which are operated primarily for scientific, educational, or similar
  purposes in the public interest, and commercial concerns.
Credentials/Documentation:
                                                                                     287
