Application Procedure:                                                                
  A brochure is available from NSA giving the form of the proposal. A proposal        
  may be sent directly to NSA by a college or university before the yearly            
  deadline. NSA has the authority for the final approval and passes the funds to a    
  college or university. The college or university distributes the funds to the       
  principal investigator, students, postdoctoral students, etc.                       
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The agency grant and contracting officer coordinates with the performing            
  organization for the effective administration of the grant.                         
Deadlines:                                                                            
  December 15 is the deadline for submission of proposals with certain                
  exceptions, such as conference applications for which there is no deadline.         
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Generally within 6 months, but may be made at any time throughout the year for      
  which funding is authorized.                                                        
Appeals:                                                                              
  None.                                                                               
Renewals:                                                                             
  Only no-cost extensions allowed when work is not completed. Funds will              
  remain.                                                                             
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  Since this is a research and technology program the assistance is generally         
  available for a 1 to 2-year period.                                                 
Reports:                                                                              
  Interim and final reports are required. Additionally, copies of publications,       
  conference presentations, dissertations, and theses published as a result of this   
  research are required.                                                              
Audits:                                                                               
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Records:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                     
Account Identification:                                                               
  97-0400-0-1-051.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  FY 07 $2,000,000; FY 08 est not reported; and FY 09 est not reported. Note:         
  No current information provided by Agency.                                          
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  $50,000 to $100,000. Average: $80,000.                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  Not available at this time.

                                                                                      
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:

                                                                                      
  NSA provides a free brochure describing how to apply for a grant.

                                                                                      
Regional or Local Office:

                                                                                      
  Not applicable.

Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Program Director, INFOSEC University Research Program, Department of                
  Defense, National Security Agency, ATTN: R23, 9840 O'Brien Road, Fort               
  George Meade, MD 20755-6000. Telephone: (301) 688-0847. FAX: (301) 688-             
  0255. E-mail urp@tycho.ncsc.mil.                                                    
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.darpa.mil/cmo.                                                           
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     
  None.                                                                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                          
  Past funded research has been in the following areas: (1) Multilevel Secure         
  Distributed Systems Security; (2) Multilevel Secure Network Systems; (3)            
  Multilevel Secure Databases; (4) Formal Methods; (5) Computer Misuse and            
  Anomaly Detection; (6) Object Oriented Technology; and (7) Secure                   
  Applications.                                                                       
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  The evaluation of proposals is based on the following factors (listed in order of   
  importance): (1) The relevance of the research to the INFOSEC Research and          
  Technology Group and NSA; (2) the perceived quality and realism of the              
  research; (3) qualifications of the principal investigator(s); (4) graduate student 
                                                                                      
  involvement and support; and (5) cost realism.

                                                                                      
                                                                                      
12.910 RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT                                            
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  DEFENSE ADVANCED RESEARCH PROJECTS AGENCY, DEPARTMENT                               
  OF DEFENSE                                                                          
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  10 U.S.C. 2358; 10 U.S.C. 2371.                                                     
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To support and stimulate basic research, applied research and technology            
  development at educational institutions, nonprofit organizations, and               
  commercial firms, which may have military or dual-use application. This             
  support may take the form of grants, cooperative agreements, or other               
  transactions.                                                                       


290                                                                             11-08

TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Project Grants (Cooperative Agreements).
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  No block or formula grants. Only project grants resulting from scientific
  proposals. Basic research, applied research and technology development in
  areas of science and technology which may have military or dual-use
  application. Projects are expected to advance the state of the art or result in
  fundamental change in technology. Support for scientific symposia, conferences
  in relevant technology areas, and consortia which deals with relevant
  technologies. Programs to encourage careers in science, technology and
  engineering, and to increase the number of graduates from underrepresented
  minority groups. Programs assisting laboratory research instrumentation at
  universities. Programs intended to produce fundamentally different approaches
  to relevant technologies or establish fundamentally new relationships among the
  parties engaged in technology development. Potential recipients should note that
  by DARPA these funds are awarded on project-by-project basis and are not
  block grants. The research focus areas are defined in the advertisement of
  potential research needs (See references to Broad Agency Announcements in
  Application and Award Process).
Applicant Eligibility:
  For grants, eligibility is limited to public and private educational institutions and
  nonprofit organizations operated for purposes in the public interest. For
  cooperative agreements, eligibility is limited to educational institutions,
  nonprofit organizations, and commercial firms. Eligibility for other transactions
  is the same as for cooperative agreements. Individuals are not eligible for these
  awards.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Public and private educational institutions. Nonprofit organizations operated for
  purposes in the public interest and commercial firms.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Applicants must not appear on the debarred or suspended list for DoD. If the
  award is a grant, cooperative agreement, or other transaction the applicant must
  not appear on the nonprocurement debarred of suspended list. In addition, the
  provisions of OMB Circular Nos. A-21, A-87, A-88, A-110, A-122, and A-133
  must be met.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O.12372.
Application Procedure:
  Eligible organizations may submit proposals or white papers in response to
  relevant Broad Agency Announcements published in the Federal Business
  Opportunities (www.fedbizopps.gov-- look for DARPA under other Defense
  Agency).
Award Procedure:
  Award decisions are based upon competitive selection of specific project
  proposals resulting from a scientific review. Evaluators use the evaluation
  criteria contained in the relevant Broad Agency Announcement. Generally, the
  offeror's proposal is incorporated into the grant document and the offeror agrees
  to perform the project as described in the proposal, with specific deliverable due
  from the project.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are specified by the various Broad Agency Announcements.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  A representative range of time required for the proposal to be accepted for award
  would be 60 to 120 days. Awards on high priority projects generally would take
  less time.
Appeals:
  Not applicable.
Renewals:
  Renewals generally require reapplication with a new proposal. Extensions can
  generally be handled under the terms of the original grant, cooperative
  agreement, or other transaction.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  This program has no statutory formula. All cooperative agreements require cost-
  sharing of at least 50 percent.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Since this is a research and technology program, the assistance is generally
  available for a 3 to 5-year period, as stated in the individual grant, agreement, or
  other transactions. Funding is usually provided incrementally in accordance
  with a payment schedule contained in the award document.
Reports:
  Grantees, agreement holders, and other awardees are expected to publish, or
  otherwise make publicly available, the results of the work. Copies of reports are
  furnished by the awardees to a prescribed list of addressees, including the
  Defense Technical Information Center. Further distribution is made by DTIC on
  a request basis to DoD agencies and their contractors.
Audits:
  In accordance with the provisions of OMB Circular No. A-133 (Revised, June
  27, 2003), "Audits of States, Local Governments, and Nonprofit Organizations,"
  nonfederal entities that expend financial assistance of $500,000 or more in
  Federal awards will have a single or a program-specific audit conducted for that
