                          DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT

14.103 INTEREST REDUCTION PAYMENTS-RENTAL AND                                         
COOPERATIVE HOUSING FOR LOWER INCOME                                                  
                                                                                      
FAMILIES                                                                              
      (236)                                                                           
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 236, Public Law 90-448, 12 U.S.C.         
  1715.                                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To provide good quality rental and cooperative housing for persons of low-and       
  moderate-income by providing interest reduction payments in order to lower          
  their housing costs.                                                                
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Direct Payments for Specified Use; Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                        
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Use was limited to Section 236 insured and non-insured mortgages financed by        
  State or Local Housing Finance Agencies. Program is now inactive. No new            
  projects are being approved. Projects with this subsidy are still active in the MF  
  portfolio.                                                                          
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible mortgagors included nonprofit, cooperative, builder-seller, investor-      
  sponsor, and limited-distribution sponsors. Public bodies did not qualify as        
  mortgagors under this program.                                                      
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Families and individuals, including the elderly and handicapped or those            
  displaced by government action or natural disaster, eligible to receive the         
  benefits of the subsidies must at the time of admission fall within certain locally 
  determined income limits. Families with higher incomes may occupy                   
  apartments, but may not benefit from subsidy payments.                              
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and qualifications of   
  the mortgagor was submitted with the application. This program is excluded          
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  Documentation regarding property characteristics and mortgagor qualifications       
  was assembled by the mortgagee and submitted with the application. The              
  sponsor held a preapplication conference with the local HUD field office with       
  multifamily processing. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB            
  Circular No. A-102. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.        
  An environmental assessment was required for this program. No applications for      
  new projects are being accepted.                                                    
Application Procedure:                                                                
  No applications for new projects are being accepted. Sponsors submitted FHA         
  Form No. 2013, application and other documentation for FHA Review of                
  Proposed Development, to local HUD field office with multifamily processing or      
  equivalent documentation to a State or local Housing Finance Agency approved        
  by HUD for participation in the program. This program is excluded from              
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The local HUD office or State or local Housing Finance Agency reviewed the          
  application to determine site appraisal and market analysis. Market need,

  correct zoning, environmental assessment and value of site fully improved were      
  considered. The local office granted feasible proposals a tentative reservation of

                                                                                      
  contract authority, and the sponsor was invited to apply for mortgage

  commitment, at which stage(s) further technical processing was completed. No

                                                                                      
  new applications for project mortgage insurance are being accepted.

                                                                                      
Deadlines:

                                                                                      
  Program is inactive. No new applications are being accepted.

                                                                                      
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Appeals:

                                                                                      
  None.

                                                                                      
Renewals:

  Not applicable.                                                                     
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Assistance payments are made monthly by HUD to the mortgagee, and may               
                                                                                      
  bring the effective interest rate paid by the mortgagor down to as low as one

  percent. Benefits received in this way are passed on to those families qualifying   
  for assistance in the form of reduced rents. Assisted families are required to pay  
                                                                                      
  for rent at least 30 percent of their adjusted income (income after certain

  allowable deductions), but not in excess of the fair market rent. This program      
  has maintenance of effort (MOE) requirements; see funding agency for further        
                                                                                      
  details.

                                                                                      
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:

                                                                                      


292                                                                             11-08

  The mortgage term normally extends for 40 years. Interest reduction payments
  may extend for the full term of the mortgage. For individual families, assistance
  ceases when their income rises to the point where they can afford the full market
  rent without the benefit of assistance.
Reports:
  Any change of the mortgagor during the period of mortgage insurance must be
  approved by HUD. Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported. All
  mortgagors of insured projects are required to submit, electronically, an annual
  financial statement to HUD audited and prepared in accordance with Generally
  Accepted Accounting Principals and Generally Accepted Auditing Standards.
  Approved mortgages, upon request by HUD, must furnish a copy of their latest
  financial statement.
Audits:
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit
  the accounts of either the mortgage or mortgagor in order to determine their
  compliance and conformance with FHA regulations and standards.
Records:
  Tenant certifications for assistance payments and annual recertification must be
  forwarded to the HUD Field or Area Office by the sponsor. Regular financial
  reports are also required. Mortgagees must service and maintain records in
  accordance with acceptable mortgagee practices and HUD regulations.
Account Identification:
  86-0148-0-1-604; 86-4077-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (Outlays) FY 07 not separately identifiable; FY 08 est not separately
  identifiable; and FY 09 est not separately identifiable. (Note: Program is
  inactive.)
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  See uses and use restrictions.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  Reservations for additional projects are not being made under the program. No
  additional mortgages have been insured since 1992. Cumulative totals through
  September 30, 1992, were 377,680 units insured with a value of
  $6,480,013,120.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  Fact Sheet: Rental and Co-op Housing for Lower Income Families. No charge;
  24 CFR 236 et seq.
Regional or Local Office:
  Contact the appropriate local HUD Office listed in the Catalog Address
  Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  For Management Information: Director, Office of Multifamily Housing
  Management, Department of Housing and Urban Development, Washington,
  DC 20410. Telephone: (202) 708-3730.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/progdesc/progdesc.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.149, Rent Supplements_Rental Housing for Lower Income Families; 14.852,
  Public Housing_Comprehensive Improvement Assistance Program.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.108 REHABILITATION MORTGAGE INSURANCE
   (203(k))
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 203(k), Public Law 95-557, 12
  U.S.C. 1709, 1715(k).
OBJECTIVES:
  To help families repair or improve, purchase and improve, or refinance and
  improve existing residential structures more than one year old.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  HUD insures lenders against loss on loans. These loans may be used to
  rehabilitate an existing 1 to 4 unit dwelling in one of four ways: (1) Purchase a
  structure and the land on which the structure is located and rehabilitate it; (2)
  purchase a structure on another site, move it onto a new foundation on the
  mortgaged property and rehabilitate it; (3) refinance the existing indebtedness
  and rehabilitate such a structure; or (4) rehabilitate such a structure. Maximum
  insurable mortgage loans for an occupant mortgagor are the same as prescribed
  for Section 203(b) - Program 14.117. Rehabilitation cost must be at least
  $5,000.
