Web Site Address:                                                                      
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/title/manuf14.cfm                                 
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  14.142, Property Improvement Loan Insurance for Improving All Existing               
  Structures and Building of New Nonresidential Structures; 64.119, Veterans           
  Housing_Manufactured Home Loans.                                                     
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
14.112 MORTGAGE INSURANCE FOR CONSTRUCTION                                             
                                                                                       
OR SUBSTANTIAL REHABILITATION OF

                                                                                       
CONDOMINIUM PROJECTS                                                                   
      (234(d) Condominiums)                                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National Housing Act, as amended; Housing Act of 1964, as amended, Section           
  234(d), Public Law 88-560; Section 234(c), Public Law 90-448, 82 Stat. 476,          
  507, 1969; Section 234(c), Public Law 91-152, 83 Stat. 379, 384, 12 U.S.C.           
  1715(y).                                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To enable sponsors to develop condominium projects in which individual units         
  will be sold to home buyers.                                                         
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  HUD insures lenders against loss on mortgage loans. These loans may be used          
  to finance the construction or rehabilitation of multifamily housing structures by   
  a sponsor intending to sell individual units as condominiums, which also would       
  be eligible for the benefits of mortgage insurance under Section 234(c). The         
  program has statutory per unit mortgage limits which vary according to the size      
  of the unit, the type of structure, and the location of the project. There are also  
  loan-to-replacement cost and debt service limitations.                               
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  Private profit-motivated developers, public bodies, and other sponsors who meet      
  FHA requirements for mortgagors.                                                     
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  All families are eligible to purchase condominium units. Mortgages for               
  individual units may be insured under Section 234(c). See program 14.133.            
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the                  
  qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the mortgagee and submitted         
  with the application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB               
  Circular No. A-87.                                                                   
Preapplication Coordination:                                                           
  The sponsor will have a preapplication conference with the local HUD                 
  Multifamily Hub or Program Center to determine the preliminary feasibility of        
  the project before an application is submitted. This program is excluded from        
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. An environmental assessment is                
  required. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,                    
  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult          
  the office or official designated as the single point of contact in his or her State 
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying    
  for assistance.                                                                      
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  The sponsor submits a formal mortgage insurance application through a HUD            
                                                                                       
  approved mortgagee to the local HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center.

                                                                                       
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.

Award Procedure:

  The local HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center reviews the application to           
  determine whether the proposal is feasible. Considerations include market need,      
  zoning, architectural merits, capabilities of sponsors, availability of community

  resources, etc. If the project meets program requirements, HUD issues the lender

                                                                                       
  a commitment to insure the project mortgage.                                         
Deadlines:                                                                             
  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by the local HUD Field Office.     
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Processing time will depend upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor and        
  the workload of field office.                                                        
Appeals:                                                                               
  If an application for mortgage insurance is refused, HUD will state the reasons      
  for the refusal. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may modify the           
  application and reapply.                                                             
Renewals:                                                                              
  The term of a commitment to insure may be extended under certain                     
  circumstances when more time is required.                                            


294                                                                              11-08

Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The maximum amount of the loan is 90 percent of the replacement cost, the sum
  of the statutory per unit limits, or sum of the unit mortgage amounts, whichever
  is less. The combined HUD site appraisal and market analysis application fee
  and commitment fees are $3.00 per $1,000 of the mortgage amount, and the
  HUD inspection fee may not exceed $5.00 per $1,000 of the mortgage amount,
  except that in all cases the combined application, commitment and inspection
  fee shall aggregate no less than $65 per unit for new construction or $50 per unit
  in rehabilitation cases. The mortgage insurance premium is one-half percent of
  the mortgage amount.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The maximum mortgage term is 40 years, or not in excess of three-quarters of
  the remaining economic life, whichever is less, if the project remains a rental.
Reports:
  Any change of the mortgagor during the period of mortgage insurance must be
  approved by HUD. Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported.
  All mortgagors are required to submit an annual financial statement to HUD.
  All approved mortgagees at any time upon request by HUD must furnish a copy
  of their latest financial statement.
Audits:
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit
  the accounts of either the mortgagee or mortgagor in order to determine their
  compliance and conformance with FHA regulations and standards.
Records:
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with
  acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions and the FHA
  regulations.
Account Identification:
  86-4077-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (Mortgages insured) Reported under program 14.135.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The maximum amount of the loan is 90 percent of the replacement cost, the sum
  of the statutory per unit limits, or sum of the unit mortgage amounts, whichever
  is less. The program has statutory per unit mortgage limits which vary according
  to the size of the unit, the type of structure, and the location of the project.
  There are also loan-to-replacement cost and debt service limitations.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  No loans were insured in fiscal year 2007 and none are anticipated in fiscal year
  2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  "HUD Mortgage Insurance Handbook No. 4580.1 For Condominium Housing
  Insured under Section 234 (d) of the National Housing Act, 24 CFR234; "HUD
  Mortgage Insurance Handbook No. 4265.1, Home Mortgage Insurance-
  Condominium Units, Section 234(c)", available on http://www.hudclips.org.
Regional or Local Office:
  All projects are processed in local HUD Multifamily Hubs or Program Centers.
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest local HUD Office.
  HUD Multifamily Hubs and Program Centers are listed at:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone (202)
  708-1142. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.133, Mortgage Insurance_Purchase of Units in Condominiums.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.117 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-HOMES
   (203(b))
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 203(b), Public Law 73-479, 12
  U.S.C. 1709, 1715(b).
OBJECTIVES:
  To help people undertake home ownership.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  HUD insures lenders against loss on mortgage loans. These loans may be used
  to finance the purchase of proposed, under construction, or existing one-to- four-
  family housing, as well as to refinance indebtedness on existing housing.
  Maximum insurable loans are as follows: one-family $200,160; two family
