  $256,248; three-family $309,744; and four-family $384,936; except that the        
  Secretary may increase the preceding maximum dollar amounts on an area-by-        
  area basis to the extent the Secretary deems necessary, after taking into         
  consideration the extent to which moderate and middle income persons have         
  limited housing opportunities in the area due to high prevailing housing sales    
  prices, but in no case may such limits, as so increased, exceed the lesser of (A) 
  87 percent of the Federal National Mortgage Association's Conforming Loan         
  Limit, or (B) in the case of a one-family residence, 95 percent of the median     
  one-family house price in the area, as determined by the Secretary; in the case of
  a two-family residence, 107 percent of such median price; in the case of a three- 
  family residence, 130 percent of such median price; or in the case of a four-     
  family residence, 150 percent of such median price. Designated areas of limited   
  housing opportunities and maximum mortgage amounts may be obtained from           
  local HUD Offices.                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                              
  All persons intending to occupy the property are eligible to apply.               
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                            
  Individuals/families.                                                             
Credentials/Documentation:                                                          
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the               
  qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the mortgage and submitted       
  with the application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB            
  Circular No. A-87.                                                                
Preapplication Coordination:                                                        
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This         
  program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.                               
Application Procedure:                                                              
  Application is submitted for review and approval or disapproval to the local      
  HUD Field Office through a HUD-approved lending institution. In addition,         
  certain lending institutions have been approved to review applications and issue  
  an approval or rejection, without additional HUD intervention. This program is    
  referred to as Direct Endorsement. This program is excluded from coverage         
  under OMB Circular No. A-110.                                                     
Award Procedure:                                                                    
  Application is submitted for review and approval or disapproval to the local      
  HUD Field Office through a HUD approved lending institution. In addition,         
  certain lending institutions have been approved to review applications and issue  
  an approval or rejection, without additional HUD intervention. This program is    
  referred to as Direct Endorsement. This program is excluded from coverage         
  under OMB Circular No. A-110.

Deadlines:                                                                          
  None.                                                                             
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:

  Varies.                                                                           
Appeals:

  The lender or HUD will state the reason for refusing an application. The          
  applicant may reapply subject to concurrence of the lender.                       
Renewals:                                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                   
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                  
  For most families, the maximum amount of the loan is the property's sales price   
  (or appraised value, if less) exclusive of any borrower paid closing costs        
  multiplied by a percent that is determined by the sales price or value if less and
  the average closing cost for the State. This determines the maximum mortgage      
  that FHA will ensure, provided the mortgagor makes a cash investment of at        
  least 3 percent into the property which may include closing costs. The            
  downpayment is the difference between the maximum loan amount and the             
  purchase price of the home. In addition to the downpayment, the purchaser must    
  pay for all items of prepaid expense. Risk-based mortgage insurance premiums      
  are collected including: 1) an up-front premium which may be financed and 2) a    
  periodic premium which is paid monthly. The loan origination charge by the        
  mortgage varies, but may not exceed one percent of the total mortgage (minus      
  the mortgage insurance premium, if being financed). Mortgagors may be             
  charged appraisal and inspection fees in accordance with fee schedules            
  established by HUD. This program has maintenance of effort                        
  (MOE)requirements, see funding agency for further details.                        
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                              
  The mortgage term may extend for 30 years.                                        
Reports:                                                                            
  Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported. All approved             
  mortgagees at any time upon request by FHA must furnish a copy of their latest    
  financial statement.                                                              
Audits:                                                                             
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit       
  the account of the mortgagee to determine its compliance and conformance with     
  FHA regulations and standards.                                                    
Records:                                                                            
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with        
  acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions and the FHA         
  regulations.                                                                      


                                                                               11-08
Account Identification:
  86-4587-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (Mortgages insured) FY 07 $56,518,703,000; FY 08 est $72,172,152,000; and
  FY 09 est $151,280,082,000.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Maximum insurable loans are as follows: one-family $200,160; two-family
  $256,248; three-family $309,744; and four-family $384,936; except that the
  Secretary may increase the preceding maximum dollar amounts on an area-by-
  area basis to the extent the Secretary deems necessary, after taking into
  consideration the extent to which moderate and middle income persons have
  limited housing opportunities in the area due to high prevailing housing sales
  prices, but in no case may such limits, as so increased, exceed the lesser of (A)
  87 percent of the Federal National Mortgage Association's Conforming Loan
  Limit, or (B) in the case of a one-family residence, 95 percent of the median
  one-family house price in the area, as determined by the Secretary; in the case of
  a two-family residence, 107 percent of such median price; in the case of a three-
  family residence, 130 percent of such median price; or in the case of a four-
  family residence, 150 percent of such median price.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  FHA insured 403,098 loans in Fiscal Year 2007.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  HUD Residential Rehabilitation Program, no charge; Fact Sheet: Rehabilitation
  Mortgage Insurance, no charge. 24 CFR 203.50.
Regional or Local Office:
  Persons are encouraged to contact the Homeownership Center serving their State
  (see http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hoc/hsghocs.cfm), or the nearest local
  HUD Office. See Catalog Address Appendix IV for a list of offices.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/ins/singlefamily.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.159, Section 245 Graduated Payment Mortgage Program; 14.172, Mortgage
  Insurance_Growing Equity Mortgages.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.119 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-HOMES FOR DISASTER
VICTIMS
   (203(h))
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 203(h), Public Law 73-479, 12
  U.S.C. 1709, 1715(b).
OBJECTIVES:
  To help victims of a major disaster undertake homeownership on a sound basis.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  HUD insures lenders against loss on mortgage loans. These loans may be used
  to finance the purchase or reconstruction of a one-family home that will be the
  principal residence of a borrower that is a victim of a major disaster. The
  maximum insurable loan for such an occupant mortgagor is the same as
  prescribed for Section 203(b) (14.117). Disaster victims are not required to
  meet the 3 percent minimum investment requirements. In order to qualify for
  assistance, the formerly occupied home must have been in an area designated by
  the President as a disaster area, and it must have been destroyed or damaged to
  such an extent that reconstruction or replacement is necessary.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Anyone that is a victim of a major disaster as designated by the President is
  eligible to apply.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Families or individuals that are victims of a major disaster as designated by the
  President.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the
  qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the mortgagee and submitted
  with the application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB
  Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  None. This program is excluded from coverage under E.O. 12372.
Application Procedure:
  An FHA-approved lender submits the application for review and approval or
  disapproval to the local HUD Field Office. This program is excluded from
                                                                                   295
