  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/ins/singlefamily.cfm.                             
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                      
  14.117, Mortgage Insurance_Homes.                                                    
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                           
  Not applicable.                                                                      
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                      
  Not applicable.                                                                      
                                                                                       
14.123 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-HOUSING IN OLDER,                                            
                                                                                       
DECLINING AREAS                                                                        
   (223(e))                                                                            
                                                                                       
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                        
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                 
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                         
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 223(e), Public Law 90-448, 12              
  U.S.C. 1715(b), 1715(n).                                                             
OBJECTIVES:                                                                            
  To assist in the purchase or rehabilitation of housing in older, declining urban     
  areas.                                                                               
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                   
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                            
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                             
  HUD insures lenders against loss on mortgage loans under other sections of the       
  National Housing Act, e.g., Section 221(d)(3) or (d)(4), pursuant to Section         
  223(e). Claims are paid from the Special Risk Insurance Fund, but this is not a      
  separate program. The determination to use Section 223(e) is at the discretion of    
  HUD. These loans may be used to finance the purchase, repair, rehabilitation,        
  and construction of housing in older, declining urban areas where conditions are     
  such that certain normal eligibility requirements for mortgage insurance under a     
  particular program cannot be met. The property must be an acceptable risk            
  giving consideration to the need for providing adequate housing for low-and          
  moderate-income families.                                                            
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                 
  HUD-approved mortgagees.                                                             
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                               
  For single family purposes, an individual or family is eligible to apply through     
  HUD approved mortgagees. Multifamily sponsorship is determined by                    
  applicable program requirements.                                                     
Credentials/Documentation:                                                             
  For single family applications, documentation regarding the characteristics of       
  the property and the qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the            
  mortgagee and submitted with the application. Documentation required for             
  multifamily applications is determined by applicable program requirements.           
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                  
Preapplication Coordination:

  Sponsors of multifamily housing located in older, declining urban areas, may         
  arrange a preapplication conference with the local HUD field office for advice       
  on the best program for the sponsor, and to discuss HUD procedures and

  requirements. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.          
  A-102. This program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372,

  "Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult          
  the office or officials designated as the single point of contact in his or her State
  for more information on the process the State requires to be followed in applying    
  for assistance, if the State has selected the program for review.                    
Application Procedure:                                                                 
  Applications may be submitted at any time for review and approval or                 
  disapproval to the local HUD Field Office through a HUD-approved lending             
  institution. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.           
  A-110.                                                                               
Award Procedure:                                                                       
  See Application Procedure.                                                           
Deadlines:                                                                             
  None.                                                                                
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                    
  Varies.                                                                              
Appeals:                                                                               
  HUD will state the reasons for refusing an application. The applicant may            
  request the HUD-approved mortgagee to seek HUD reconsideration.                      
Renewals:                                                                              
  Not applicable.                                                                      
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                     
  Mortgages for housing eligible under the special program may be insured under        
  any one of several HUD programs. The maximum amount of the loan, the                 
  downpayment, and other mortgage terms vary according to the HUD program              
  under which the mortgage is insured. The mortgage insurance premium is one-          
  half percent per year on the outstanding loan balance. Fees are established under    
  the applicable HUD program. This program has maintenance of effort (MOE)             
  requirements; see funding agency for further details.                                


                                                                                  11-08
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  Not applicable.
Reports:
  Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported. All approved lenders
  at any time upon request by HUD, must furnish a copy of their latest financial
  statement.
Audits:
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit
  the account of the lender to determine its compliance and conformance with
  HUD regulations and standards.
Records:
  Mortgages are required to service and maintain records in accordance with
  acceptable practices of prudent lending institutions and the HUD regulations.
Account Identification:
  86-4077-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  (Mortgages insured) Reported under program 14.133.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  Mortgages for housing eligible under the special program may be insured under
  any one of several HUD programs. The maximum amount of the loan, the
  downpayment, and other mortgage terms vary according to the HUD program
  under which the mortgage is insured. There was no activity under this program
  in FY 2006.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  No fiscal activity under this section since Fiscal Year 2005.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  HUD Handbook 4260.1, "Miscellaneous Type Home Mortgage Insurance,
  Section 223(a), (e), and (d)," no charge; 24 CFR 207.31a (for multifamily); 24
  CFR 203.43a (for single family).
Regional or Local Office:
  All projects are processed in Single Family Homeownership Centers,
  Multifamily Hubs, or local HUD offices. Persons are encouraged to contact the
  Homeownership Center or HUD serving their State, or the nearest local HUD
  Office. See Catalog Address Appendix IV for a list of Offices.
Headquarters Office:
  None.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/ins/singlefamily.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.108, Rehabilitation Mortgage Insurance; 14.117, Mortgage
  Insurance_Homes; 14.135, Mortgage Insurance_Rental and Cooperative
  Housing for Moderate Income Families and Elderly, Market Interest Rate.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.126 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-COOPERATIVE
PROJECTS
   (213 Cooperatives)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 213; Housing Act of 1950, Public
  Law 81-475; Housing Act of 1956, Public Law 84-1020, 12 U.S.C. 1715(e);
  Public Law 91-152, 83 Stat. 379, 383; Public Law 84-345, 69 Stat. 635; Public
  Law 87-70, 75 Stat. 149, 179; Public Law 86-372, 73 Stat. 654, 656; Public Law
  89-117, 79 Stat. 451, 469; Public Law 89-754, 80 Stat. 1255-66.
OBJECTIVES:
  Enables nonprofit cooperative ownership housing corporations or trusts to
  develop or sponsor the development of housing projects to be operated as
  cooperatives. Section 213 allows investors to provide good quality multifamily
  housing to be sold to such nonprofit corporations or trusts upon completion of
  construction or rehabilitation.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 213 insures lenders against loss on mortgages. Insured mortgages may
  be used to finance construction, acquisition of existing, or rehabilitation of
  detached, semidetached, row, walk-up, or elevator type housing consisting of
  five or more units. The program has statutory per unit mortgage limits which
  vary according to the size of the unit, the type of structure, and the location of
  the project. There are also loan-to-replacement cost and debt service limitations.
   Contractors for new construction and substantial rehabilitation housing projects
  must comply with prevailing wage requirements under the Davis-Bacon Act.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible mortgagors are nonprofit cooperatives, ownership housing corporations
  or trusts which may either sponsor projects directly, sell individual units to
                                                                                   297
