  cooperative members, or purchase projects from investor-sponsors (builders,         
  developers, or others who meet HUD requirements).                                   
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  Members of the cooperative are eligible to occupy a dwelling in the structure       
  whose mortgage is insured under the program.                                        
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the                 
  qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the mortgagee and submitted        
  with the application. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB              
  Circular No. A-87.                                                                  
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The sponsor has an initial conference with the local HUD Multifamily Hub or         
  Program Center to determine the preliminary feasibility of the project before a     
  site appraisal and market analysis (SAMA) application (for new construction         
  projects) or a feasibility application (for substantial rehabilitation projects) is 
  submitted. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.            
  A-102. An environmental assessment is required for this program. This program       
  is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal     
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the     
  single point of contact for additional information on the process the State         
  requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected the   
  program for review.                                                                 
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The sponsor submits the SAMA application or feasibility letter to the local Hub     
  or Program Center. Following HUD's approval and issuance of a SAMA or               
  feasibility letter, the sponsor submits a firm commitment application through a     
  HUD-approved mortgagee to the local Multifamily Hub or Program Center for           
  processing. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.           
  A-110.                                                                              
Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The local HUD field office decides whether to approve, or reject individual         
  applications and whether to issue a commitment to the lender to insure the          
  mortgage.                                                                           
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by the local HUD Multifamily      
  Hub or Program Center.

Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Processing times will depend upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor and

  HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center workload.

                                                                                      
Appeals:                                                                              
  If any application for mortgage insurance is denied, HUD will state the reasons

  for the denial. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may modify the           
  application and reapply.                                                            
Renewals:                                                                             
  The term of a commitment to insure may be extended when more time is                
  required.                                                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  Sales-Type: The maximum loan for the sales project is the amount equivalent to      
  the aggregate total of the maximum mortgage amounts that would be allowed for       
  the individual units comprising the project under Section 203(b) Program            
  14.117 - of the National Housing Act. Investor-Sponsor: The maximum amount          
  of the loan to the investor sponsor is equal to 90 percent of the estimated         
  replacement cost. Management-Type: The maximum amount of the loan is                
  equal to 98 percent of the estimated replacement cost. All Projects: The annual     
  mortgage insurance premium is one half percent of the mortgage amount. The          
  combined FHA application and commitment fees are $3 per $1,000 of the               
  mortgage amount. The HUD inspection fee may not exceed $5 per $1,000 of the         
  mortgage amount.                                                                    
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The maximum mortgage term is 40 years, or not in excess of three-fourths of the     
  remaining economic life, whichever is less, except for sales type cooperatives      
  where the maximum term is 35 years or not in excess of three-fourths of the         
  remaining economic life, whichever is less.                                         
Reports:                                                                              
  Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported. All approved               
  mortgagees at any time upon request by HUD must furnish a copy of their latest      
  financial statement.                                                                
Audits:                                                                               
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit         
  the accounts of either the mortgagee or mortgagor in order to determine their       
  compliance and conformance with the regulations and standards.                      
Records:                                                                              
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with          
  acceptable lending practices of prudent lending institutions and HUD                
  regulations.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  86-4587-0-3-371.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  Reported under program 14.117.                                                      
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            


298                                                                             11-08

  Loan sizes ranged from $1,500,000 to $10,200,000, with an average of $4.7
  million. Project sizes ranged from 22 units to 120 units with an average of 53
  units.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In fiscal year 2007, HUD insured mortgages for seven projects with 373 units,
  totaling $33 million. It is estimated that the Department will insure
  approximately the same number of projects in fiscal year 2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  HUD Handbooks 4550.1 and 4550.2 "Basic Cooperative Housing Insurance,
  and Pre-sale Management Type Co-ops", no charge; HUD Handbook 4550.3,
  "Converting an Existing Project to a Cooperative", no charge; HUD Handbook
  4240.3, Section 203 (n), Application Through Insurance (Single Family), no
  charge; HUD Handbook 4550.4, Supplementary Loan-Cooperative Housing", no
  charge; HUD Handbook 4550.5, "Investor-Sponsor and Nonprofit Sponsorship
  of Housing Cooperatives", no charge; HUD Handbook 4550.6, "Sales Type
  Cooperatives", no charge available on http://www.hudclips.org.
Regional or Local Office:
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the Multifamily Hub or Program
  Center with jurisdiction for the proposed property. HUD Multifamily Hubs and
  Program Centers are listed on the web at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Multifamily Housing Development, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone:
  (202)708-1142. Use the same number for FTS.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.132, Mortgage Insurance_Purchase of Sales-Type Cooperative Housing
  Units; 14.135, Mortgage Insurance_Rental and Cooperative Housing for
  Moderate Income Families and Elderly, Market Interest Rate.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.127 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-MANUFACTURED
HOME PARKS
   (207 - Manufactured Home Parks)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 207, Public Law 84-345, 12 U.S.C.
  1713.
OBJECTIVES:
  To make possible the financing of construction or rehabilitation of manufactured
  home parks.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  The Department's Federal Housing Administration (FHA) insures lenders against
  loss on mortgage defaults. Insured mortgages may be used to finance the
  construction or rehabilitation of manufactured home parks consisting of 5 or
  more spaces. The maximum mortgage limit is $11,250 per space. In areas
  where cost levels so require, limits may be increased up to 140 percent on a
  case-by-case basis. Contractors for new construction and substantial
  rehabilitation projects must comply with prevailing wage requirements under the
  Davis-Bacon Act.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible mortgagors include investors, builders, developers and others who meet
  HUD requirements for mortgagors.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Families, individuals, and elderly persons owning manufactured homes and
  desiring to lease spaces in a manufactured home park.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the
  qualifications of the mortgagor are submitted with the application. This
  program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  The sponsor has an initial conference with the local HUD Multifamily Hub or
  Program Center to determine the preliminary feasibility of the project before a
  Site Appraisal and Market Analysis (SAMA) application (for new construction
  projects or feasibility application (for substantial rehabilitation projects) is
  submitted. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-
  102. An environmental assessment is required for this program. This program is
  eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the office or official designated as the
  single point of contact in his or her State for more information on the process the
