  State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State has selected 
  the program for review.                                                             
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The sponsor submits a site appraisal and market analysis (SAMA) for new             
  construction projects or a feasibility application for substantial rehabilitation   
  projects. Following HUD's issuance of a SAMA or feasibility letter, the sponsor     
  submits a firm commitment application through a HUD-approved lender for             
  processing. Considerations include market need, zoning, capabilities of the

  borrower, and availability of community resources. Applications are submitted       
  to the local HUD Multifamily Hub Program Center which does multifamily

  processing. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No.           
  A-110.

Award Procedure:                                                                      
  The HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center decides whether to approve or             
  reject applications.                                                                
Deadlines:                                                                            
  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by the local HUD Multifamily      
  Hub or Program Center.                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Processing time will depend upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor and       
  by the workload of the HUD Field Office.                                            
Appeals:                                                                              
  If an application for mortgage insurance is refused, HUD will state the reasons     
  for the refusal. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may reapply subject to  
  concurrence of the lender.                                                          
Renewals:                                                                             
  The term of a commitment to insure may be extended when more time is                
  required.                                                                           
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The maximum amount of the loan may not exceed 90 percent of the estimated           
  value. The mortgage insurance premium is based on the mortgage amount. The          
  application fee is $3 per $1,000. The HUD-inspection fee may not exceed $5          
  per $1,000 of the mortgage amount.                                                  
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:                                                
  The maximum mortgage term is 40 years, or not in excess of three-fourths of the     
  remaining economic life, whichever is less.                                         
Reports:                                                                              
  Any change of the mortgagor during the period of mortgage insurance must be         
  approved by HUD. Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported.           
  All mortgagors are required to submit an annual financial statement to HUD.         
  All approved mortgagees at any time upon request by HUD must furnish copies         
  of their latest financial statements.                                               
Audits:                                                                               
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit         
  the accounts of either the mortgagee or mortgagor to determine their compliance     
  and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.                                 
Records:                                                                              
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with          
  acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions and the HUD           
  regulations.                                                                        
Account Identification:                                                               
  86-4077-0-3-371.                                                                    
Obligations:                                                                          
  (Mortgages insured) Reported under program 14.135.                                  
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                            
  Loan sizes range from $1,890,000 to $7,830,000, with an average of $4.5             
  million. Project sizes range from 84 units to 337 units with an average of 175      
  units.                                                                              
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                              
  In Fiscal Year 2007, HUD did not insure any projects under this program. It is      
  estimated that no mortgages will be insured under this program in Fiscal Year       
  2008.                                                                               
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                              
  Fact Sheet, Manufactured Home Parks; 24 CFR 207.33 et seq.; Mobile Home             
  Parks Financing, no charge; Housing Surveys, Part II; HUD Handbook 4545.1,          
  Mobile Home Park Program, no charge, available on HUDCLIPS at                       
  http://www.hudclips.org.                                                            
Regional or Local Office:                                                             
  All projects are processed in Local HUD Multifamily Hubs or Program Centers.        
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with the nearest HUD Multifamily              
  Hub or Program Center listed at                                                     
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm or in the Catalog           
  Appendix IV.                                                                        
Headquarters Office:                                                                  
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban                  
  Development, 451 7th Street, S. W., Washington, DC 20410. Telephone: (202)          
  708-1142. Use the same number for FTS.                                              
Web Site Address:                                                                     
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.                                        
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                     


                                                                                 11-08
  14.110, Manufactured Home Loan Insurance_Financing Purchase of
  Manufactured Homes as Principal Residences of Borrowers; 64.119, Veterans
  Housing_Manufactured Home Loans.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.128 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-HOSPITALS
   (242 Hospitals)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 242; 12 U.S.C. 1715z-7; Public Law
  108-091.
OBJECTIVES:
  To facilitate the affordable financing of hospitals for the care and treatment of
  persons who are acutely ill or who otherwise require medical care and related
  services of the kind customarily furnished only or most effectively by hospitals.
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  HUD insures lenders against loss on mortgages. The loans may be used to
  finance the construction, modernization, equipment, or refinancing of acute care
  hospitals.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Qualified applicants can be either profit or not-for-profit hospitals licensed or
  regulated by the State, municipality, or other political subdivision. At least 50
  percent of the care must be for general acute patients (this requirement has been
  eliminated for hospitals specifically designated as Critical Access Hospitals as
  part of Public Law 108-091).
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Persons needing the services of these hospitals benefit by using the modernized
  facilities supported by the insured mortgages.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the
  qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the mortgagee and submitted
  with the application. A Certificate of Need from the appropriate State agency is
  needed if that State has a Certificate of Need process. This program is excluded
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  Interested parties should contact the program office with information about the
  proposed project before preparing an application. This program is excluded
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. This program is eligible for
  coverage under E.O. 12372," Intergovernmental Review of Federal Programs."
  Recipients should consult the office or the official designated as the single point
  of contact in its respective State for more information on the process the State
  requires to be followed when funds are used for the planning or the construction
  (reconstruction or rehabilitation) of water or sewer facilities.
Application Procedure:
  The sponsor submits a formal application to the Office of Insured Health Care
  Facilities, Room 9224, Department of Housing and Urban Development, 451
  Seventh Street, SW., Washington, DC 20410. This program is excluded from
  coverage under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The Federal Housing Commissioner makes final decisions to approve, hold, or
  reject individual projects.
Deadlines:
  None.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Processing time depends upon the complexity of the proposal and the degree of
  preparation by the sponsor.
Appeals:
  If an application for mortgage insurance is refused, the reasons for the refusal
  will be stated. The applicant may reapply.
Renewals:
  The term of a commitment to insure advances is typically effective for 90 days
  from the date of issuance and may be extended for good cause.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The maximum mortgage amount may not exceed 90 percent of the estimated
  replacement cost of the hospital including the installed equipment. The
  mortgage insurance premium is based on one-half percent of the average
  monthly amortized unpaid principal balance for the forthcoming year. The
  combined HUD application and commitment fees are 0.3 percent of the
  mortgage amount. The HUD inspection fee may not exceed 0.5 percent of the
  mortgage amount.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The mortgage term is 25 years.
                                                                                    299
