Reports:                                                                             
  Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported. Mortgagors are            
  required to submit annual audited financial statements to HUD. Approved            
  mortgagors must furnish copies of their latest financial statements upon request   
  by HUD.                                                                            
Audits:                                                                              
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit        
  the accounts of either the mortgagee or mortgagor in order to determine their      
  compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.                     
Records:                                                                             
  Mortgagees and mortgagors are required to service and maintain records in          
  accordance with acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions      
  and FHA regulations. Records must be kept in accordance with State and             
  Federal Regulations during the construction phase.                                 
Account Identification:                                                              
  86-4077-0-3-371.                                                                   
Obligations:                                                                         
  (Mortgage insurance commitments) FY 07 est $846,348,500; FY 08 est                 
  825,000,000; and FY 09 est $1,100,000,000.                                         
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:                                           
  $1,950,000 to $278,500,000; $71,911,778.                                           
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:                                                             
  HUD issued 9 insurance commitments for acute care hospitals in FY 2007. It is      
  expected that approximately 7 new mortgages will be insured in FY 2008             
  through Section 242 and 241.                                                       
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:                                             
  Code of Federal Regulations (Housing and Urban Development) Part 200;              
  Mortgage Insurance for Hospitals, (HUD Handbooks 4615.1; 4615.2) no charge.        
Regional or Local Office:                                                            
  None.                                                                              
Headquarters Office:                                                                 
  Office of Insured Health Care Facilities, Department of Housing and Urban          
  Development, 451 7th Street, Room 9224, Washington DC 20410. Paul                  
  Giaudrone, Senior Financial Analyst. Telephone: (202)708-0599; E-mail:             
  paul.a.giaudrone@hud.gov).                                                         
Web Site Address:                                                                    
  http://www.fha.gov/hospitals.                                                      
RELATED PROGRAMS:                                                                    
  14.129, Mortgage Insurance_Nursing Homes, Intermediate Care Facilities,            
  Board and Care Homes and Assisted Living Facilities.                               
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:                                                         
  Not applicable.

                                                                                     
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:

                                                                                     
  Not applicable.

                                                                                     
                                                                                     
14.129 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-NURSING HOMES,                                             
INTERMEDIATE CARE FACILITIES, BOARD AND CARE                                         
HOMES AND ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES                                                 
                                                                                     
      (232)                                                                          
                                                                                     
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                      
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                               
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                       
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 232; Housing Act of 1959, as             
  amended, Public Law 86-372; Housing and Urban Development Act of 1969,             
  Public Law 91-152, 73 Stat. 654, 83 Stat. 379; Public Laws 95-128, 95-557, 96-     
  153, and 98-181.                                                                   
OBJECTIVES:                                                                          
  To provide mortgage insurance to HUD-approved lenders to facilitate the            
  construction or rehabilitation of nursing homes, intermediate care facilities,     
  board and care homes and assisted living facilities, to allow purchase or          
  refinancing with or without repairs of projects not requiring substantial          
  rehabilitation, and to provide loan insurance to install fire safety equipment.    
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                 
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                          
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                           
  Section 232 insures lenders against loss on mortgage defaults. Insured             
  mortgages may be used to finance construction or renovation of facilities to       
  accommodate 20 or more patients requiring skilled nursing care and related         
  medical services, or those who while not in need of nursing home care, are in      
  need of minimum but continuous care provided by licensed or trained                
  personnel. Board and care homes and assisted living facilities are also eligible   
  and must contain a minimum of five accommodations or units. Nursing homes,         
  intermediate care facilities, board and care homes and assisted living facilities  
  may be combined in the same facility covered by an insured mortgage or may be      
  in separate facilities. Nursing homes, intermediate care facilities, board and     
  care homes and assisted living facilities must be licensed or regulated by the     
  appropriate state agency, municipality, or other political subdivision where       
  located. Contractors for new construction and substantial rehabilitation projects  


300                                                                            11-08

  must comply with prevailing wage requirements under the Davis-Bacon Act.
Applicant Eligibility:
  Eligible mortgagors include investors, builders, developers, public entities,
  nursing homes and private nonprofit corporations or associations.
Beneficiary Eligibility:
  Residents requiring skilled nursing, custodial care, and assistance with activities
  of daily living are eligible to live in a structure whose mortgage is insured under
  the program.
Credentials/Documentation:
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and the
  qualifications of the mortgagor are assembled by the mortgagee and submitted
  with the application. Certification of need and inspection and licensing by the
  State agency designated by the Public Health Service Act for the State in which
  the nursing home or intermediate care facility is to be located is required, or, if
  no State Agency exists, an alternative market study is required. A Certificate of
  Need may be required for a board and care home or assisted living facility. A
  statement from the appropriate State Agency is required stating that the State is
  in compliance with Section 1616 (e) of the Social Security Act. This facility
  must be licensed. This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular
  No. A-87.
Preapplication Coordination:
  For Traditional Application Processing (TAP) of a mortgage insurance
  application, the sponsor will have an initial conference with the local HUD
  Multifamily Hub or Program Center to determine the preliminary feasibility for
  the project before a site appraisal and market analysis application, or a firm
  commitment application, is submitted. For Multifamily Accelerated Processing
  (MAP) for new construction or substantial rehabilitation loans, the sponsor
  works with a MAP-approved lender who submits certain required exhibits for
  the preapplication stage. For refinance or purchase of an existing health care
  project, under Section 232/223(f), there is no preapplication stage under MAP.
  This program is excluded from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-102. An
  environmental assessment is required for this program. This program is eligible
  for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review of Federal
  Programs." An applicant should consult the State office or official designated
  as the single point of contact additional information.
Application Procedure:
  For Traditional Application Processing (TAP), the application for Firm
  commitment is submitted by the sponsor through a HUD-approved mortgagee,
  and the application is processed by the Multifamily Hub or Program Center. For
  Multifamily Accelerated Processing (MAP), the application for a Firm
  Commitment, including a full under-writing package, is submitted by the MAP
  lender for HUD Field Office review. This program is excluded from coverage
  under OMB Circular No. A-110.
Award Procedure:
  The local HUD Field Office makes the final decision to approve, or reject
  individual projects.
Deadlines:
  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by the designated Multifamily
  Hub or Program Center and are mutually agreed to at the pre-commitment
  conference.
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:
  Processing time depends upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor and
  whether or not Multifamily Accelerated Processing (MAP) or Traditional
  Application Processing (TAP) is used.
Appeals:
  If an application for mortgage insurance is refused, HUD will state the reasons
  for the refusal. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may modify the
  application and reapply.
Renewals:
  The term of a commitment to insure may be extended when more time is
  required to close the loan.
Formula and Matching Requirements:
  The maximum amount of the loan for new construction and substantial
  rehabilitation would be equal to 90 percent (95 percent for nonprofit sponsors)
  of the estimated value of the physical improvements and major movable
  equipment. For existing projects, the maximum is 85 percent (90 percent for
  nonprofit sponsors) of the estimated value of the physical improvements and
  major movable equipment. HUD charges one-half percent of the mortgage
  amount per annum for mortgage insurance premium. The combined HUD site
  appraisal and market analysis application and commitment fees are $3 per
  $1,000 of the mortgaged amount. The HUD inspection fee may not exceed $5
  per $1,000 of the mortgage amount for new construction and substantial
  rehabilitation projects. The inspection fee for existing projects may not exceed
  one percent of the total cost of repairs.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The maximum mortgage term is 40 years for new construction and substantial
  rehabilitation. The maximum term for existing projects without substantial
  rehabilitation is 35 years.
Reports:
  Any change of the mortgagor during the period of mortgage insurance must be
