CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:                                                     
  Not applicable.                                                                     
                                                                                      
14.134 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-RENTAL HOUSING                                              
                                                                                      
      (Section 207)                                                                   
                                                                                      
FEDERAL AGENCY:                                                                       
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT                                
AUTHORIZATION:                                                                        
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 207, Public Law 75-424, 12 U.S.C.         
  1713.                                                                               
OBJECTIVES:                                                                           
  To increase the supply of good quality rental housing for middle-income             
  families.                                                                           
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:                                                                  
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.                                                           
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:                                                            
  Section 207 insures lenders against the loss on mortgage defaults. Section 207      
  mortgage insurance, although still authorized, is no longer used for new            
  construction and substantial rehabilitation. It is however, the primary vehicle for 
  the Section 223(f) refinancing program. Multifamily new construction and            
  substantial rehabilitation projects are currently insured under Section 221(d)(3)   
  and Section 221(d)(4) programs. Insured mortgages may be used to finance the        
  construction or rehabilitation of rental detached, semidetached, row, walk-up, or   
  elevator type structures with 5 or more units. The program has statutory per unit   
  mortgage limits which vary according to the size of the unit, the type of           
  structure, and the location of the project. There are also loan-to-value and debt   
  service limitations.                                                                
Applicant Eligibility:                                                                
  Eligible mortgagors include investors, builders, developers, and others who meet    
  HUD requirements for mortgagors.                                                    
Beneficiary Eligibility:                                                              
  All families eligible to occupy dwellings in a structure whose mortgage is          
  insured under the program, subject to normal tenant selection.                      
Credentials/Documentation:                                                            
  Documentation regarding the characteristics of the property and qualifications of   
  the mortgagor are submitted with the application. This program is excluded          
  from coverage under OMB Circular No. A-87.                                          
Preapplication Coordination:                                                          
  The sponsor has an initial conference with the local HUD Multifamily Hub or         
  Program Center to determine the preliminary feasibility of the project before a     
  Site Appraisal and Market Analysis (SAMA) application (for new construction         
  projects) or feasibility application (for substantial rehabilitation projects) is   
  submitted. An environmental assessment is required for this program. This           
  program is eligible for coverage under E.O. 12372, "Intergovernmental Review        
  of Federal Programs." An applicant should consult the State office or official      
  designated as the single point of contact for additional information on the         
  process the State requires to be followed in applying for assistance, if the State  
  has selected the program for review. This program is excluded from coverage         
  under OMB Circular No. A-102.                                                       
Application Procedure:                                                                
  The sponsor submits an application for a SAMA or feasibility letter. Following      
  HUD's approval and issuance of a SAMA or feasibility letter, the Firm               
  Commitment application is submitted to the local HUD Multifamily Hub or

  Program Center for processing. This program is excluded from coverage under         
  OMB Circular No. A-110.

Award Procedure:

                                                                                      
  If the project meets program requirements, the local HUD Multifamily Hub or         
  Program Center issues a commitment to the lender to insure the mortgage.            
Deadlines:

  Deadlines are established on a case-by-case basis by the local HUD Multifamily      
  Hub or Program Center.                                                              
Range of Approval/Disapproval Time:                                                   
  Processing time will depend upon the degree of preparation by the sponsor and       
  HUD Multifamily Hub or Program Center workload.                                     
Appeals:                                                                              
  If an application for mortgage insurance is denied, HUD will state the reasons      
  for the denial. If reapplication is desired, the applicant may modify the           
  application and reapply.                                                            
Renewals:                                                                             
  The term of a commitment to insure may be extended when more time is                
  required to close the loan.                                                         
Formula and Matching Requirements:                                                    
  The maximum amount of the loan is equal to 90 percent of the estimated value.       
  The mortgage insurance premium is one-half percent of the mortgage amount.          
  The total HUD application processing and commitment fees are $5 per $1,000 of       
  the mortgage amount. Only $1 per $1,000 is required at the initial application      
  for SAMA. No fee is required with a feasibility application for a rehabilitation    
  project. The HUD inspection fee may not exceed $5 per $1,000 of the mortgage        


302                                                                             11-08

  amount.
Length and Time Phasing of Assistance:
  The mortgage term is 40 years, or not in excess of three-fourths of the remaining
  economic life, whichever is less.
Reports:
  Any change of the mortgagor during the period of mortgage insurance must be
  approved by HUD. Defaults in meeting the mortgage terms must be reported.
  All mortgagors are required to submit annual financial statements to HUD. All
  approved mortgagees at any time upon request by HUD must furnish copies of
  their latest financial statements.
Audits:
  The Department of Housing and Urban Development reserves the right to audit
  the accounts of either the mortgagee or mortgagor in order to determine their
  compliance and conformance with HUD regulations and standards.
Records:
  Mortgagees are required to service and maintain records in accordance with
  acceptable mortgage practices of prudent lending institutions and the HUD
  regulations.
Account Identification:
  86-4077-0-3-371.
Obligations:
  Reported under program 14.135.
Range and Average of Financial Assistance:
  The maximum amount of the loan is equal to 90 percent of the estimated value.
PROGRAM ACCOMPLISHMENTS:
  In Fiscal Year 2007, HUD did not insure any mortgages under this program. It is
  estimated that the Department will not insure any mortgages in Fiscal Year
  2008.
REGULATIONS, GUIDELINES, AND LITERATURE:
  24 CFR 207 et seq.; Fact Sheet: Section 207 Rental Housing, no charge; HUD
  Handbook 4400.1, Project Mortgage Insurance Basic Section 207 Instructions,
  available on www.hudclips.org.
Regional or Local Office:
  Persons are encouraged to communicate with Multifamily Hub or Program
  Center with jurisdiction for the proposed property. HUD Multifamily Hubs and
  Programs Centers are listed at
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/mfh/mfbroch/hubs_pcs.cfm or at the Catalog
  Address Appendix IV.
Headquarters Office:
  Office of Multifamily Development, Department of Housing and Urban
  Development, 451 7th Street, S.W., Washington, DC 20410; Telephone: (202)
  708-1142.
Web Site Address:
  http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/hsgmulti.cfm.
RELATED PROGRAMS:
  14.135, Mortgage Insurance_Rental and Cooperative Housing for Moderate
  Income Families and Elderly, Market Interest Rate; 14.138, Mortgage
  Insurance_Rental Housing for the Elderly; 14.139, Mortgage Insurance_Rental
  Housing in Urban Renewal Areas; 14.155, Mortgage Insurance for the Purchase
  or Refinancing of Existing Multifamily Housing Projects.
EXAMPLES OF FUNDED PROJECTS:
  Not applicable.
CRITERIA FOR SELECTING PROPOSALS:
  Not applicable.
14.135 MORTGAGE INSURANCE-RENTAL AND
COOPERATIVE HOUSING FOR MODERATE INCOME
FAMILIES AND ELDERLY, MARKET INTEREST RATE
   (221(d)(3) and (4) Multifamily - Market Rate Housing)
FEDERAL AGENCY:
  HOUSING, DEPARTMENT OF HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT
AUTHORIZATION:
  National Housing Act, as amended, Section 221, Public Law 86-372, 12 U.S.C.
  1715(1).
OBJECTIVES:
  To provide good quality rental or cooperative housing for moderate income
  families, the elderly, and handicapped. Single Room Occupancy (SRO) may
  also be insured under this section (see program 14.184).
TYPES OF ASSISTANCE:
  Guaranteed/Insured Loans.
USES AND USE RESTRICTIONS:
  Section 221(d)(3) and Section 221(d)(4) insures lenders against loss on
  mortgage defaults for market rate rental projects. Insured mortgages may be
  used to finance construction or rehabilitation of detached, semidetached, row,
  walkup, or elevator-type rental or cooperative housing containing 5 or more
  units. The program has statutory mortgage limits which vary according to the
  size of the unit, the type of structure, and the location of the project. There are
  also loan-to- replacement cost and debt service limitations. Contractors for new
